

1 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Nunn Says U.S. Should Negotiate Deeper Cuts on Troops in Europe

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31

 BODY:
Senator Sam Nunn, the leading Democratic figure on military issues on Capitol Hill, says the United States should seek deeper cuts in American and Soviet troop strength in Europe than the Bush Administration has proposed in arms negotiations.
Mr. Nunn, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, suggested a reduction from the current American strength of 305,000 Army and Air Force troops to about 200,000 to 250,000. The Administration has proposed a troop limit of 275,000 as part of a treaty cutting conventional forces in Europe.
The Georgia Democrat's comments on troop cuts are part of a broader recommendation that the United States redefine the overseas role of its forces by concentrating on air power while cutting costly Army troops stationed around the world. How Far Should Cuts Go? Mr. Nunn elaborated his views, which are likely to be influential in Congress's budget deliberations, in a recent interview on a broad range of security issues. 
His comments come at a time when both Congressional Democrats and the White House agree that reduced tensions between Moscow and Washington and the need to cut the Federal deficit will force sizable reductions in military spending. But how far the cuts go and what programs are reduced loom as potential points of conflict between the White House and Congress.
Several weeks ago, Mr. Nunn criticized the Administration for failing to revise its military planning in light of the recent political changes in Eastern Europe and a reduction in Soviet military forces there. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney disputed that criticism, and some Pentagon officials have challenged members of Congress to define their own strategy.
 
Reserving Judgment on Specifics
In the Dec. 22 interview, Mr. Nunn insisted that he wanted to reserve judgment on many of the specifics, pending hearings by his committee on the new Pentagon budget, the changing threat to the United States' national security and the development of a new military strategy. The hearings are to begin in the third week of January.
But he did say that the United States should move to a revised military role for Western Europe in which it would ''specialize'' in air power while requiring the Western European allies to assume more responsibility for ground defense.
Expanding on this point, Mr. Nunn said President Bush's proposal, made at the NATO summit last spring before the upheaval in Eastern Europe, ''has been overrun by events'' and should be revised. The proposal would set equal limits of 275,000 on American and Soviet troops in Europe and would result in a 30,000 cut in American Army and Air Force troops and a cut of about 325,000 in Soviet troops in Europe.
Mr. Nunn said the 275,000 ceiling would ''validate'' a higher Soviet military presence in Eastern Europe than East Europeans want, indeed higher than Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev himself may now be prepared to accept. In addition, he said budget pressures are driving the United States to make deeper troop cuts in Europe.
It is far from clear that Moscow would go along with Mr. Nunn's suggestion since Soviet officials have objected to the idea of confining troop limits to American and Soviet forces. Moscow has proposed that troop limits be set on all NATO and Soviet-bloc forces stationed on foreign soil.
 
Pacific Force Cuts Suggested
In the Pacific, Mr. Nunn advocated a ''partial, gradual draw down'' of American troops in South Korea, adding that the United States should maintain the capability to use air power there. Senator Nunn also said the Bush Administration should consider withdrawing some American forces from Japan.
Senator Nunn also said Western European nations and Japan must assume a greater burden for defending the sea lanes from the oil fields in the Persian Gulf to their countries. He urged the United States to buy more of its oil from South America, which would enable Washington to concentrate more of its military resources on the Western Hemisphere. But while Senator Nunn is urging a rethinking of American military deployments around the world, he is not reconsidering some crucial and contentious programs that he has long supported.
He indicated, for example, that he still strongly supports the idea of developing a ground-based interceptor to knock out incoming missile warheads launched by accident or by hostile third world nations. Such a system would be different than the space-based ''Star Wars'' anti-missile defense proposed by President Ronald Reagan, which was intended as a shield against a full-scale Soviet attack but which has encountered major technological, political and legal obstacles.
The Senator said such a ground-based system should be deployed if it was determined to be technologically feasible and if the costs were not too great even though the deployment might require renegotiation of the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviets. That agreement sharply restricts the deployment and testing of anti-missile systems. Senator Nunn first suggested such a system two years ago but it has received little support outside conservative circles.
 
Support for Stealth Bomber
And echoing Air Force arguments, Mr. Nunn said he still strongly supported the program to build the costly Stealth bomber, in part, because the weapon could be used to elude air defenses on missions in third world countries. Critics say the United States does not need a sophisticated bomber like the Stealth to carry out such attacks and have questioned whether Washington would actually employ such a costly plane in that situation.
In other comments, Mr. Nunn, who plans to visit Panama early this week, said the Bush Administration's decision to attack Panama to oust Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega was ''justified.'' But he criticized the Justice Department for indicting Mr. Noriega on drug charges during the Reagan Administration, saying that this complicated efforts to remove the Panamanian strongman from power.
The Senator said the American attack ''is not something that was inevitable.'' He continued: ''It could have been handled in a different way, starting a couple of years ago. And I'm sure the people of Panama would have been better served had it been. They suffered economically and they are going to continue to suffer economically.''
Turning to strategic issues, Senator Nunn said the United States and the Soviet Union need to review thoroughly their procedures for the firing of nuclear-tipped weapons to protect against an accidental launching of the weapons and to identify other possible deficiencies in the command and control systems. If the Pentagon did not carry out a ''total review of our fail-safe systems from one end to the other, under independent and objective people,'' Senator Nunn said he would order his committee staff to do their own review.
 
Efforts to Cut U.S. Troops
The Senator's call for shifting emphasis in overseas deployments from ground troops for air power is likely to buttress what has been a somewhat tentative effort by the Congress to reduce America's troop presence abroad.
Earlier this year, Representatives Patricia Schroeder, Democrat of Colorado, and Andy Ireland, Republican of Florida, successfully sponsored legislation to cut the American military presence in Europe by 15,000. They prevailed by arguing that the reduction would merely remove the troops used to operate the intermediate-range missiles eliminated under the 1987 American-Soviet missile accord.
But an effort by Senators Dale Bumpers of Arkansas Democrat and J. Bennett Johnston of Lousiana, both Democrats, to cut 10,000 of the 43,000 American military personnel in South Korea was unsuccessful.
 
Pressures on Congress
The pressure in Congress to cut deployments is likely to be stronger in the coming year because many members of Congress view it as a more attractive way to save money than closing bases at home. In addition, the Army has drawn up plans to refashion itself into a fast-reaction force that would be largely based in the United States, adding to the emerging consensus for cuts in overseas deployments.
For his part, Senator Nunn urged that the United States redefine its overseas role for defending Western Europe to make the most efficient use of its military resources.
He said Washington should inform its NATO allies that ''what we are going to be evolving toward will include U.S. strengths, and our strengths don't include getting a huge number of heavy forces to Europe during an emergency,'' referring to armored and mechanized Army divisions. ''Independent of Gorbachev, we should have been putting more emphasis on air power and on light mobile forces.''
Senator Nunn said future military budgets are likely to reflect a 2 to 5 percent decrease after inflation is taken into account. The Joint Chiefs of Staff have told Mr. Cheney that the $180 billion in cuts from projected spending increases that the Pentagon is considering are the most they can tolerate.
But the Senator said he could not identify a minimum level of acceptable military spending, saying that the pace of Soviet weapons production will have a strong bearing on Congressional deliberations.
''We should look at bottom lines on capabilities, not in terms of dollars,'' he said. ''Each new weapon system needs to be revalidated versus the threat and versus changes.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Sen. Sam Nunn (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GEORGIA (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY PERSONNEL; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMIES ARMED FORCES (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); AIR FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; NUNN, SAM (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) DICK CHENEY (59%); 



2 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2616 words

HEADLINE: FALTERING DRUG WAR: THE FLOW FROM LATIN AMERICAN - A SPECIAL REPORT;
Battle Against Cocaine Traffic Is Languishing in South America

BYLINE: This article was reported by Joseph B. Treaster, Bernard E. Trainor, Richard L. Berke and Eric Weiner and was written by Mr. Treaster, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia

 BODY:
Despite some seemingly spectacular successes, the drug war in South America is not going well. Critics say the American military attack on Panama, justified in part as an anti-drug initiative, has only fragmented what is already a largely ineffective effort.
Despite the lack of sympathy for Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega of Panama, Latin America was clearly shaken by the latest case of United States military force in the region. Peru dramatized that reaction by pulling out of an Andean summit meeting on drugs with President Bush, set for February, and briefly halting an anti-drug effort with the United States.
Because Peru grows 70 percent of the coca plants processed into the cocaine that is smuggled into the United States, its withdrawal from the summit talks dashed hopes for a start on a cohesive regional plan. 
 
Peru Could Become Sanctuary
Colombia and Bolivia, the other two major cocaine producers in South America, say they still plan to meet with President Bush in February. But without Peru's cooperation, narcotics experts say, the drug war cannot succeed, because the country would become a huge sanctuary for growers and drug traffickers pursued by the two neighboring countries.
Trying to knock Panama off the cocaine-distribution map by taking out General Noriega, who has long been linked to the drug traffic, was not a fair trade for the alienation of Peru, critics say. Panama's importance in the drug trade was waning as tension between General Noriega and the United States grew and drug traffickers and money launderers left for more tranquil points in the Caribbean, Mexico, Canada, Europe and Asia.
Mr. Bush's campaign to stop cocaine at its source in the Andes, part of a broader drug strategy announced in September, includes $2 billion in economic aid to Peru, Bolivia and Colombia over four years and $261 million mainly in aid to the military and police in those countries.
But four months into the campaign, the picture is bleak.
Cocaine is flowing as freely as ever to the United States, where the appetite for crack remains ravenous, and it is becoming increasingly clear that for the Andes nations themselves, cutting cocaine production and exports is by no means the No. 1 priority.
Colombia has embarked on a campaign to arrest its major traffickers and seize their assets, but for every trafficker who falls, another replaces him, overseeing the processing of the coca leaf at jungle laboratories and arranging for the shipment of cocaine to North America. And the coca plant continues to be cultivated in Peru and Bolivia, where poor farmers have discovered its value as a cash crop.
In an interview, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, characterized the Administration's campaign as ''little more than a paper initiative.''
''The United States,'' he said, ''must launch a genuine plan for the Andes, not just a laundry list of disjointed initiatives.''
The Administration's response is that the problem of cocaine smuggling from Latin America has been building since the early 1970's, and that it will take time to solve. ''We can show some little successes, but over all it's going to take several years,'' said a United States official in Peru. ''We're just getting into the ballgame, just starting to get the resources we need.''
Some Administration officials working on drug issues in Washington say they do not expect to see any measurable effect on the flow of cocaine into the United States until late 1990. ''That's just a realistic assessment of how long it takes government to work,'' one said.
Some Bush aides acknowledged that the Panama invasion has not been a plus for the drug war, and one said it was ''catastrophically negative'' and indicated that Washington was holding out hope that Peru would ultimately decide to join in the Andean summit meeting now that it has resumed its anti-drug program with the United States. Colombia One Kingpin Down, But Many to Go One of the most notable successes in the drug fight came in mid-December, when Colombian security forces chased down and killed Jose Gonzalo Rodriguez Gacha, a powerful and violent leader of the Medellin cartel, which controls much of the world cocaine market. It was a major accomplishment for Colombia, and it bolstered public support after drug bosses had repeatedly escaped police raids and terrorized the capital, Bogota, with nightly bombings.
In the last two weeks drug terrorism has dropped significantly. And there is some evidence that drug-ring leaders are now fighting each other. But the American and Colombian authorities say Mr. Rodriguez Gacha's death will have little effect on the export of cocaine because someone will win the battle to succeed him and simply pick up the slack.
And Colombian traffickers, who control most of the cocaine industry worldwide, are moving their jungle factories, where paste from the the coca leaf is processed into powder. The refineries are being set up in Peru and Bolivia and even along the frontiers of Brazil and Ecuador, which until now had been relatively free of drug traffic.
Scores of smaller Colombian drug processers and shippers and some of the major traffickers who have operated quietly and without violence have been left alone by the Government. Should the level of terrorism remain low for an extended period, some Colombian experts predict, the Government will declare victory and permit the peaceful drug traffickers to go about their business.
In Colombia, as in Peru and Bolivia, political power and economic conditions are more important concerns.
''We are fighting two wars in Colombia,'' Carlos Lemos Simmonds, the senior member of President Virgilio Barco Vargas's Cabinet and the President's chief political adviser, said in an interview, referring to the war against drugs and the war between drug traffickers and the nation's leaders.
''The deadlier war is the one of the drug barons against our own politicians, our judges, our journalists,'' he said. ''They want to be the ones who govern the country. They want to make Colombia into a narco-state, so they can handle their business more easily. Both wars are urgent. But we have to stop these people from killing other Colombians. This has priority.'' Peru and Bolivia A Profitable Habit Hard to Break Presidents Alan Garcia of Peru and Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia argue that the solution to the drug problem lies not in force but in broad economic development - road building, electrification, agricultural services, the introduction of industry - along with price supports to make other crops more attractive than coca.
The high profits from cocaine have made the Bolivian and Peruvian Governments reluctant to move against it, and few farmers have been willing to switch to other crops. Some Bolivian farmers have taken United States and Bolivian money, offered as an inducement for destroying coca plots and cultivating other crops, and moved to remote fields to plant more coca. In Peru, the Upper Huallaga Valley is the world's most fertile ground for the coca plant, and farmers there have virtually halted the cultivation of any other crop.
The $2 billion in economic aid pledged by President Bush to Peru, Bolivia and Colombia over four years works out to about $166 million a year for each of the countries, an enormous jump. But Mr. Garcia and Mr. Paz Zamora are talking about $500 million a year and more.
For Peru, the gravest concern is the Shining Path, a Maoist guerrilla movement that has been terrorizing the country for nearly 10 years. Mr. Garcia argues that pressure on coca farmers only provides recruits for the guerrillas, who exploit the cocaine trade by protecting the farmers and then ''taxing'' both them and those whom the Shining Path permits to export the drug.
Bolivia's economy has forced many workers to protest conditions. The nation is under a state of siege, imposed after teachers began demanding raises that would have upset a long-range restructuring of the economy away from central controls.
Colombia says it needs good prices for its main legitimate export, coffee, and fewer restrictions on its exports to of freshly cut flowers and textiles to the United States. But under pressure from American coffee makers for more advantageous prices and different mixes of beans, the United States has walked away from an international coffee agreement on price supports.
World coffee prices have plunged, and Colombia says it will lose about $500 million a year unless the agreement is restored. Administration officials say they are trying to find a way for Colombia to recoup its loss, but the talks involve dozens of countries and are going slowly.
Senator Biden proposes that to assist the drug-producing nations in reorganizing or bolstering their economies, a ''debt for drugs'' swap should be made. The United States would pay off the big foreign debts of the cocaine-producing countries under the plan in exchange for a program of coca-crop eradication and encouragement of alternate crops. United States Lack of Agreement And Coordination In the United States, the Bush Administration is confronted by competing interests among Washington agencies. Some, like the Commerce Department, show little active interest in the South American drug problem, despite the coca crop's inevitable intertwining in Andes economics and trade. Some, like the Pentagon, are not in agreement on the wisdom of the United States involvement in the Andes drug problems.
Critics say the Administration's efforts are disjointed. At least six United States Government agencies, including the Central Intelligence Agency, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the State Department, are working against drugs in the three countries.
Each agency has its own procedures and intelligence sources. Theoretically, the United States ambassador coordinates the drug war in his country. But in practice, central direction is weak and each agency goes its own way.
''We are far from having a strategy,'' said Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, chairman of the House Select Committee on Narcotics.
William J. Bennett, the nation's drug-policy director, has been criticized by politicians and experts in drug treatment for failing to take his advisers' counsel and take charge of an overall drug plan. A Government expert said, ''Bennett has done fine on the bully pulpit talking about the drug problem, but he seems unwilling to seize the power needed to really do anything.''
Donald R. Hamilton, the chief spokesman for Mr. Bennett, said the director had exerted sweeping influence on how the United States is dealing with drugs. ''He has good access to the President and when he's gone to the President he's gotten his way almost every time.''
Within the United States armed forces, opinion is divided over whether the military should be involved in the drug war in South America. Many officers, remembering Vietnam, worry that the military will be drawn into an unwinnable war.
''We will be down there 20 to 40 years,'' said a senior planning officer in the United States military headquarters in Panama.
Some officers think the armed forces could become a scapegoat if the anti-drug war fails. ''It is easier for politicians to shift the burden to the military than to get tough with their own drug-using constitutents,'' said a Pentagon officer who bitterly oppposes using servicemen in the drug war.
Despite the misgivings, the Defense Department has ordered stepped-up training, reconnaissance, intelligence sharing and logistical support in the three Andean countries. The Andes The Divisive Issue Of Who Will Fight Mainly because of unextinguishable bad memories of gunboat diplomacy, the leaders of Colombia, Bolivia and Peru oppose the presence of American combat troops on their soil, and they want strict limits on any American military presence.
Of the three countries, only Colombia has been willing to mount a real armed offensive of its own. Peru and Bolivia continue to equivocate on waging any kind of warfare on an industry that provides an income for hundreds of thousands of peasants.
A key to the United States strategy is to engage the armies of all three countries in the drug war, but these forces have historically insisted that drug trafficking is a criminal matter for the police to confront. Friction between the police and the armed forces runs deep; they seldom work together, and when they do they blame each other for what goes wrong.
In Peru the army actually prevents the police from operating in the Upper Huallaga Valley. Disturbing the coca farmers, the army says, would help the guerrillas by driving the farmers into rebel ranks. But tantalized by the potential of as much as $40 million in United States military hardware for an anti-drug campaign, the army now contends that through its war with the guerrillas it should be regarded as actually fighting cocaine.
While drugs have been a police concern, most police officers have been assigned to other duties. Of the 80,000 members of the police in Colombia, for example, only about 3,500 are assigned to anti-drug units. In Peru, there are about 500 anti-narcotics police officers, and in Bolivia there are 700 to 800. Mexico New Way Stations South of the Border A United States official in Bogota who specializes in narcotics estimated that cocaine shipping from Colombia was still down about 25 percent from what it was before the Government of President Barco declared war on the drug traffickers last August.
But he said new processing centers in Peru and other countries, especially Mexico, may have lifted the region as a whole back to where it had been.
As United States patrols and radar networks have slowed traffic in the Caribbean, cocaine smugglers have been funneling their goods into the United States through Mexico. The Colombian cartels have formed alliances with Mexican smuggling gangs that have long dealt in marijuana and heroin. ''You have organizations on both sides of the border who have been involved with smuggling for decades,'' said a United States official in Mexico.
Drug Enforcement Administration officials estimate that 50 percent to 70 percent of all South American cocaine entering the United States goes through Mexico, as opposed to 30 percent only a few years ago.
Nearly 300 planes were seized in the raids in Colombia, but American officials say the traffickers have replenished their fleet by buying and stealing replacements all over the hemisphere. One of the most popular smuggling planes, the officials said, is the Gulfstream Aerocommander 1000, a twin-engine turboprop plane that can carry up to 2,000 pounds of cargo.
Most of Mexico does not have radar coverage. Planes land at hundreds of dirt airfields and often keep one engine running as the cocaine is unloaded. Usually, the drug is hidden at the airfield for a few days, then smuggled across the border by truck.
The United States has been putting up a barrier of radar balloons along the Mexican border; seven are to be up within weeks. The balloons can detect a plane as far away as 150 miles.
In all three Andes countries and in the United States, politicians as well as scholars and economists talk of what they regard as the impossibility of significantly reducing the production and export of cocaine as long as demand remains strong.
The most optimistic analysts estimate 5 to 10 years of heavy spending and perhaps much bloodshed, not to eliminate cocaine in South America but to contain it until consumption falls.
''We're buying time,'' said one United States Embassy official here.

GRAPHIC: map of Central and South America (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); PANAMA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); BOLIVIA (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: ANDES (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA; LATIN AMERICA; PERU

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; SURVEYS AND SERIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SUMMIT CONFERENCES COCAINE (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); DRUG POLICY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ASSET FORFEITURE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); MONEY LAUNDERING (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOE BIDEN (56%); 



3 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 2-9
 
The Communist Party in Rumania will dismantle itself during a special congress that top officials of the ousted Government will call before free elections are held in April. Page 1
 
Helicopter pilot describes Ceausescu's escape attempt 6

An Israeli paper says Israel paid Ceausescu to release Jews 6

 
Poland's bold leap into capitalism, the first by a Communist nation, begins today. As the Government's economic overhaul takes effect, Poles are resigning themselves to tightening their belts. 1

 
Bulgarian towns defies order restoring rights to Turks 7

In the Soviet Union, joy in the New Year has limits 6

 
Panama's new leaders disagreed over whether to file charges against Gen. Manuel Noriega or leave the question of his prosecution to the U.S. Talks between U.S. and Vatican officials remained at an impasse. 1

 
President Bush visited soldiers who were wounded in Panama. ''The country is behind what you did,'' he told them, his eyes at times brimming with tears. 8

 
Ortega says search has worsened relations with U.S. 8

U.S. crossed signals on captured Noriega aide 8

 
The drug war in South America is floundering, despite some successes. The American attack on Panama, justified as an anti-drug initiative, has further bungled plans for a cohesive regional plan, critics say. 1 
 
 
A new star for movie studios is Mexico 31

The freeze in Florida aids Brazil's orange growers 31

 
The Khmer Rouge has U.S. arms and is coordinating strategy with non-Communist guerrilla armies supported by Washington, said Prime Minister Hun Sen of Cambodia. 5

 
Former President Chun Doo Hwan of South Korea testified for the first time about his repressive eight-year rule. His testimony, coming after a year in exile, was cut short when a melee broke out in the National Assembly. 3

 
New Year's celebrations in Japan combine a Times Square-like countdown and eastern mysticism. Japan takes the coming of the New Year more seriously perhaps than any other nation. 3

 
The buoyant Tokyo stock market has been following its own stable course, even as bankers and economists speak of a global financial village in which the world's centers of finance are closely linked. 31

 
A year of surprises benefits European stock markets 34

Aquino reorganizes her cabinet 2

 
An Israeli minister was dismissed by Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir. Mr. Shamir said Science Minister Ezer Weizman, an influential Labor Party leader, had met and advised P.L.O. leaders. 2

 
Morocco pleads for aid as oil from huge spill nears coast 2

In South Africa, black police officers' perils and pride 4

 
NATIONAL 10-12
 
The U.S. should seek an arms deal that cuts American and Soviet troop strength in Europe to 200,000 to 250,000, much deeper cuts than the White House has proposed, says Senator Sam Nunn, the Democrats' leading defense spokesman. 1

 
The debate over cutting the military and its budget has been complicated by a confusing array of numbers and budgetary terms being used in Washington. 12

 
Are some child molesters incurable? A rash of crimes, including the killing of three boys in Washington State by a repeat offender who underwent months of court-ordered therapy, has refueled the debate. 1

 
Large increases in heating oil prices in New England have prompted calls by governors for a Federal investigation. Some officials and experts contend the price rise is not merely the result of increased demand. 10

 
Chief Justice William Rehnquist warned Congress and the White House that ''the war on drugs will fail'' unless more Federal judges are appointed. No new Federal judgeships have been created since 1984, while the caseload has increased 25 percent. 10

 
Americans foresee a better life for themselves as they look to the year 2000, but foresee a worsening of some of the nation's social and economic problems, according to a new Gallup Poll. 10

 
Washington Talk: Bush's first year as President has been deeply involved in events beyond the borders of the United States, though there's no evidence he planned it that way. 11

 
Second big U.S. rocket enters commercial market and space 11

American Journal: Glimpses of 1989 10

 
REGIONAL 27-30
 
New Yorkers are cautiously hopeful about the city's future and the new Dinkins administration's ability to deal with its myriad problems: crime, drugs, AIDS and homelessness, some of which were undetectable when the city ushered in the last decade. 1

 
The first goal of David N. Dinkins, who will be sworn in as New York's 106th mayor, is the city's fiscal health. Only then, he says, can the fight against AIDS, drug abuse, homelessness and crime be waged effectively. 27

 
A church service for the new Mayor in Harlem included prayers and praise from Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the Rev. Jesse Jackson and more than 1,000 New Yorkers. 29

 
Joyce Dinkins, a quiet lady and no longer 'a private person' 29

 
New York's new Schools Chancellor, Joseph Fernandez, brings with him a management plan from his tenure as Miami's school chief in which principals, teachers and parents share the responsibilities of running neighborhood schools. 27

 
A fitness plan for the city's elderly has been developed by New York's Department for the Aging. Called ''Stay Well,'' the plan includes exercises, walking tours and health education, all led by trained volunteers. 28

 
New York State's fiscal problems await lawmakers when the Legislature opens a new session Wednesday. But few seem eager to return. 27

 
An Ukrainian poet who jousted with Soviets loses to burglars 28

 
NEEDIEST CASES 28
 
BUSINESS DIGEST 31

 
SPORTSMONDAY
 
Basketball: Knicks may win honor for coach 38

Angry words spark Kansas 42

Columns: Vecsey on 1989 39

Anderson on the Rams 41

Features: Sports World Specials 38

Question Box 42

On Your Own 44

Football: Rams upset Eagles 37

Steelers top Oilers 37

Colorado passer on the move 37

Colorado just needs to win 40

Steinberg interviews Perles 41

Hockey: Nordiques beat Islanders 38

Rangers lose to Penguins 39

Outdoors: Of muzzleloaders and mergansers 44

 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT
 
Literary critics convene 13

Spain's writers' renaissance 13

Exhition of ancient cosmetics 14

India bars production of 2 films 18

Mixed reviews for Hong Kong cultural center 21

Music: Margareth Menezes 16

Amato ''Barber of Seville'' 16

Dance: Puppets and Drummers 21

Word and Image: The Mencken diaries 20

The prime-time baby boom 13

 
OBITUARIES 26

 
Scott Burton, sculptor
William Scott, painter
 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials 24

 
Proud beginning to 1990
Mindless macho in Panama
How to rewire America
 
Letters 24

William Safire: The opposition stirs 25

E. Gordon Gee: A college Super Bowl: the ultimate sellout 25

Michael Shuman: In the East bloc, it's Lennon - not Lenin 25

Alan D. Gould: A new weaponS against drugs: a stamp tax 25

Robert E. Olson: Go ahead. Eat that potato chip. 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PANAMA (93%); ROMANIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); POLAND (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); BULGARIA (79%); MOROCCO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); HOLY SEE (76%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (67%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (61%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); HELICOPTERS (72%); RELIGION (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); DRUG POLICY (66%); ORANGE GROVES (52%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



4 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: 90's, in Poll: A Good Life Amid Old Ills

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. KAGAY

 BODY:
As Americans look to the year 2000, most of them anticipate a better life for themselves, but at the same time they foresee a worsening of many of the nation's social and economic problems, according to a new Gallup Poll.
Seventy-seven percent of the 1,234 adults polled said they expected the overall quality of their own life to be better by 2000. Similarly, 77 percent anticipated that their family life would be better in 10 years' time. Seventy-four percent said their financial situation would be better. Eighty-two percent of employed adults also predicted their job situation would improve in 10 years. 
Somewhat smaller majorities of Americans also anticipated that by 2000 people would be spending more time on leisure and recreation (68 percent), and more time with their families (58 percent). A minority said people would be spending more time on jobs (38 percent) or household chores (13 percent).
 
Personal Optimism-Pessimism
The poll, conducted by telephone Nov. 16-19, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
The participants' optimism about their own lives was accompanied by a more pessimistic outlook on many current social and economic problems. Large majorities expected by 2000 to see increases in the rate of inflation (74 percent), the crime rate (71 percent), poverty (67 percent), homelessness (62 percent), and environmental pollution (62 percent).
Slightly smaller majorities anticipated a worsening of the unemployment rate (59 percent), alcohol and drug abuse problems (58 percent), and the divorce rate (58 percent). Race Relations: A Better Age? One bright spot concerned race relations. Fifty-two percent of the public expected tensions between racial and ethnic groups to decrease in the 1990's, while 39 percent said such tensions would increase.
There was optimism over health. Sixty-seven percent anticipated a cure for AIDS by 2000 and 56 percent foresaw a cure for cancer by 2000.
In international affairs, the responses were mixed. On the one hand, 68 percent of Americans expected the Soviet Union and the West to be living peacefully together in 10 years. Thirty-two percent even expected Soviet Communism to have vanished by then (The poll was conducted shortly after the opening of the Berlin Wall).
 
Even Split on Central America
On the other hand, the public was divided over whether other international problems were likely to ease or worsen. Fifty percent expected international terrorism to increase in the 1990's, and 40 percent anticipated a decrease. The public was evenly split on whether United States forces would be drawn into military conflict in Central America, 50 percent saying it would happen, 50 percent disagreeing.
Only 8 percent foresaw a nuclear war between the Soviet Union and the United States by 2000, but 33 percent expected a nuclear war to be started by a country other than the superpowers. Just 28 percent anticipated peace between the Israelis and the Arabs in 10 years.
As for the outlook for energy, the public also had mixed expectations. Approximately two-thirds anticipated that a new, clean energy source would be developed (65 percent) during the 1990s', but nearly the same proportion expected an energy crisis (64 percent). Easier or Harder Life? The public seemed to view ecological disaster as more likely than economic crisis in the decade. The 34 percent that expected a world economic depression were outnumbered by the 61 percent who said they thought a major change in the earth's climate would come about by 2000.
The underlying contrast between personal optimism and social pessimism was evident in the public's judgment about aspects of life that would become easier or harder by 2000. Fifty-three percent expected the l990's to be a decade in which life would get easier; 38 percent expected life to get harder for them, personally.
But, on problems facing people more generally, large majorities saw increasing difficulties for many Americans. The public expected it to become harder for parents to afford college for their children (89 percent), harder for people to buy a house (81 percent) and harder for people to afford retirement (79 percent) and medical care (79 percent). Sixty-four percent expected it to become harder for young people to find jobs in the 1990's.

GRAPHIC: chart of U.S. population for '80 and '89, by state (Source: AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: HARDER LIFE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: GALLUP POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); FORECASTS POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); FAMILY (90%); RACE & RACISM (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TRENDS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); CRIME RATES (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (68%); AIDS & HIV (66%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (65%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); CANCER (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (61%); TERRORISM (50%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); 



5 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: INQUIRY ON PRICES OF OIL HEAT URGED

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

 BODY:
As New England's coldest December on record shivered to a close, lawmakers and consumer advocates called for an investigation into heating-oil prices that have shot up with the mercury's fall.
The average price for home heating oil in Massachusetts was $1.41 a gallon on Wednesday, up from $1.10 on Dec. 18 and 88 cents a year ago. Similar price changes were reported across New England.
By the end of last week, the Federal Government had been asked to investigation the situation by governors or other state officials in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont. In addition, some of those states have started their own investigation and have taken steps to insure adequate oil supplies. 
Many officials and experts say the sudden, steep increases could not be merely the result of cold weather's pushing up demand, but instead may be caused by price manipulations.
 
Highest Prices in History
''Prices are higher in Boston now than at any time in history,'' said Steven Cowell, executive director of Fair Share Development Corporation, which runs a nonprofit fuel cooperative in Boston. ''Retail prices are ranging from $1.45 to $1.60, which is a 100 percent increase in some cases,'' Mr. Cowell said. His group has asked Gov. Michael S. Dukakis to declare a fuel emergency.
The demand for heating oil was up 30 percent nationwide in December, said Joseph Lastelic, a spokesman for the American Petroleum Institute, a trade group with headquarters in Washington.
He said the higher costs are being generated by longer hours at refineries and overtime for transportation workers. In addition, he said, the price of crude oil has been driven up by the increased demand.
 
Hotline Sizzles in Vermont
In Vermont, complaints on the consumer hotline were so persistent that Gov. Madeleine M. Kunin wrote to Attorney General Dick Thornburgh requesting an investigation of ''the extraordinary increase in the price of home heating oil,'' said a spokesman, Peter Freyne. ''The price has doubled in the last two weeks,'' he added, citing the increase from 79 cents to $1.39 a gallon.
New Hampshire officials, while urging conservation, are also trying to increase supplies of oil as well as propane and natural gas, a spokesman for Gov. Judd Gregg said.
''We have seen a 62 percent increase in oil prices in less than a month,'' said the spokesman, Warren Henderson. The last officially measured price was $1.45 a gallon, although there have been reports of prices higher than $1.50.
In Maine, a study panel on Home Heating Oil Prices was created last week to investigate the increases. Prices there have risen 50 percent in the last three weeks. a spokeswoman for Gov. John R. McKernan Jr. said.
Last week, in calling for a Federal investigation, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York said home heating oil ''is a necessity, not a luxury, and these dramatic increases, coupled with unusually cold weather, will have a serious economic impact on many New York families, especially those living on fixed incomes.''
 
Panicky Homeowners Blamed
Some experts and officials say homeowners, panicking at the possibility of an unheated house, are partly to blame for the price surge.
''It's the same type of thing as when there were long lines to buy gas,'' said John Hunt, vice president of Citizens Resources, an oil-trading division of the nonprofit Citizens Energy Corporation in Boston. ''People said, 'I better not drive around on a quarter of a tank because I don't know when I'll be able to buy more.' Probably now homeowners are asking for deliveries when their tank is not completely out or they anticipate it running out. I don't know how you correct it.''
Temperatures in New England hovered in the subfreezing range throughout December. In Boston, the National Weather Service declared last month the coldest December since record-keeping began in 1871. The average mean temperature for the month was 21.1 degrees, which broke the record of 22.2 degrees for 1876.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: HEATING FUEL; CONSUMER PROTECTION; PRICES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; WEATHER INVESTIGATIONS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); HEATING OIL (91%); HEATING OIL PRICES (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); PROPANE (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); OVERTIME (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (58%); 



6 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
For Bush in 1989, the Focus Was Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31

 BODY:
His friends always said George Bush would be a foreign-policy President, but even they didn't expect this.
In bold contrast to his mentor, Ronald Reagan, Mr. Bush has begun his tenure in the White House with a year of deep involvement in events beyond the borders of the United States. By contrast, his attention has seldom been focused for long periods on domestic policy questions.
There's no evidence that he planned it that way; events in China, the Soviet Union, Panama, Colombia and Eastern Europe forced his hand. 
In the first weeks of his Presidency, Mr. Bush seemed determined to resist the magnetism of Mikhail S. Gorbachev and his ideas. Never mind how much the Soviet President and President Reagan had come to trust each other, Mr. Bush told his associates. Never mind the enthusiasm of the press and the academics and the Europeans. We're going to wait until we see real evidence of change in the Soviet Union.
That position proved untenable, partly because Washington (and Paris and Bonn and even Rome) took it as a sign of weakness and drift in the White House, and partly because of the pace and degree of change in Eastern Europe (notably, at that stage, in Hungary and Poland) that Moscow was willing to countenance and even encourage.
Under attack at home and abroad, Mr. Bush shifted course, or at least tone. First he developed and sold major arms-control initiatives to the NATO allies. Then, in a speech at Mainz, West Germany, on May 31, he moved out of the camp of prudence and vigilance and into that of optimism and movement. Acknowledging Bonn's critical role, he described the United States and the Federal Republic as ''partners in leadership'' of the Western alliance.
But the image of innovation rapidly wore thin in a world of breathless change. In the Mainz speech, the President issued two major challenges to Mr. Gorbachev - open the Berlin Wall and promote political pluralism in Eastern Europe - implying that American concessions would follow. By the time Mr. Bush went to Malta to meet Mr. Gorbachev at the beginning of this month, both challenges had been met, and the President was being accused of lacking the vision to cope with the revolutions in East Germany, Bulgaria and Czechslovakia.
Once again, he had a series of surprise proposals ready, largely economic, and once again he was able to regain the initiative, at least in part, from the whirling dervish in the Kremlin.
Mr. Bush made gestures and concessions to the Soviets, for the express purpose of easing the way for a Government that has been moving, slowly but steadily, in the direction of American ideals and policies. But at the same time he caused widespread resentment by making gestures of reconciliation toward China, in the form of visits from ranking officials of the Administration, before and not after the Chinese gave evidence that they would desist from the repressive policies that led to the slaughter of hundreds of anti-Government protestres in Beijing in June.
Finally, just before Christmas, the President committed American troops to their biggest combat operation since Vietnam, sending them to Panama to oust Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega and to give a democratic regime there a jump-start.
Mr. Bush said in Texas the other day that he was finishing this year on a rather high note. But his moment of satisfaction, however well earned, is likely to be short.
As the year ends, the President's capacity to surprise and to act boldly are in no doubt. But the underpinnings of his policy remain unclear. Is he promoting democracy, whose time seems to have come with such a rush? Or is he merely acting in the self-interest of the United States, letting realpolitik lead where it may?
The next 12 months will provide further clues on that large question, and perhaps answers to smaller ones: Will the United States, which could muster only an embarrassing $500,000 in medical aid for Rumania, be able to find the large sums needed to help put Eastern Europe back on its feet? Will major troop cuts be negotiated? Will progress toward German reunification or rapprochement be possible without upsetting the stability of Europe?
And will George Bush, in 1990, turn to the detailed domestic policies that he avoided in 1989?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PANAMA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); MALTA (57%); BULGARIA (55%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); APPLE, R W JR RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



7 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Sizing Up Cuts to the Military Budget

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31

 BODY:
The debate over how to cut the military budget has been complicated by a confusing array of numbers and budgetary terms.
The political battle of words and figures began about six weeks ago when Defense Secretary Dick Cheney ordered the armed services to prepare plans for cutting $180 billion from ''projected spending.''
Then, several military experts from outside the Government declared that the annual Pentagon budget, currently about $300 billion, could safely be cut by half or more over the next decade.
That was a critical point in the public debate, but confusion resulted because different sets of figures were quoted. Mr. Cheney was talking about reductions from ambitious levels the Bush Administration projected last summer for the next four years. The outsiders were recommending cuts from current spending levels adjusted for inflation. 
 
When a Cut Is an Increase
That is why critics like Senator Jim Sasser, the Tennessee Democrat who heads the Budget Committee, weighed in. They said that while the Defense Secretary spoke of cuts, his plan would actually lead to increased military spending and that, as Mr. Sasser put it, ''the peace dividend, as currently constituted, is a rubber check.''
The debate is likely to boil over early in the New Year when as many as a dozen Congressional committees are planning hearings on the issue.
To understand the debate, these points must be kept in mind:
* Mr. Cheney's figure of $180 billion in cuts is based on cumulative annual reductions in the Administration's original plan for a much expanded Pentagon budget each year through fiscal year 1994. The figure would mean less money than needed to keep up with inflation but a small increase in actual dollars spent each year.
* A plan advocated by former Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara and generally accepted by Senator Sasser and others would lower slightly the actual amount of money spent each year and would result in a large reduction below inflation-adjusted figures. It would cut the Pentagon budget by an average of 5 percent a year after accounting for inflation.
* The military is not unlike a family: if its budget does not rise enough to keep pace with inflation, its purchasing power is reduced.
Starting at the beginning, in fiscal year 1990, which began Oct. 1, the Pentagon's budget authority is $291.2 billion. It plans to spend $288.4 billion. This does not include about $10 billion in the Energy Department for the production of nuclear weapons.
 
Variations in Spending
Budget authority, also called appropriations, is the amount of money Congress approves each year. Some of the money is spent in subsequent years. At the Pentagon, nearly all of the budget authority for personnel is spent in the year the money is approved. But only 80 percent of the authority for operations and maintenance, 60 percent of that for research and development and 15 percent of the authority for procurement is spent in that year.
As recently as last summer, the Bush Administration was planning on an increase in the Pentagon budget authority of 1 percent more than the amount needed to keep up with inflation in fiscal year 1991 and 2 percent in fiscal years 1992, 1993 and 1994.
Based on the way Congress has cut the military budget since 1987, lawmakers were highly unlikely to go along with that ambitious proposal. But nonetheless, military officials based their spending plans on the projection.
The actual amount that would have been allocated under this plan would have depended on the rate of inflation. The staff of the House Budget Committee has calculated that with an inflation rate of 4 percent - the approximate rate of the last several years - budget authority for the military would have risen from $291 billion in fiscal year 1990 to $312 in 1991, $329 in 1992, $350 in 1993 and $365 in 1994.
 
Lowered Expectations
Because of improved relations with the Soviet Union and budget pressures, Mr. Cheney this fall ordered the military services to develop plans for keeping authority at the same level, $291 billion, through fiscal year 1994.
Using different inflation projections from those used by the Congressional staff, Mr. Cheney calculated a cumulative three-year saving from fiscal year 1992 through fiscal year 1994 of $180 billion. It is important to remember that this saving is measured against the increases originally proposed and not against the actual 1990 budget. The Joint Chiefs of Staff have told Mr. Cheney that they could live with his cuts for four years, but that further reductions would undermine American security.
The Administration's budget for fiscal year 1991, which begins Oct. 1, is in the final stages of preparation and will be presented to Congress Jan. 22. Officials familiar with the Pentagon budget say Mr. Bush will propose budget authority of about $295 billion and spending of $292 billion.
Congress is likely to lower those amounts. Senator Sasser has observed that the $292 billion in spending anticipated by the Administration is about $4 billion more than what is being spent in the current fiscal year and only about $5 billion below what would be needed to keep up with inflation.
 
'A Mere Fraction'
The $5 billion, he declared, is ''a mere fraction'' of the $40 billion in deficit reduction that will be needed to meet the $64 billion deficit target set by the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget balancing law.
That is apparently why President Bush has made so little of the Pentagon saving. Some people think, he said recently, ''if you cut defense spending by $10 billion, we can take that money and spend it on something else; we can't do that.'' Outside specialists do not disagree with that analysis. But they are looking at the savings many years ahead.
Two military experts from previous administrations - Mr. McNamara, Defense Secretary in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, and Lawrence J. Korb, an Assistant Defense Secretary in Ronald Reagan's first term - told the Senate Budget Committee in testimony this month that the Pentagon budget could be cut in half in constant dollars over the next 10 years.
That would mean an average cut of 5 percent a year over 10 years below what would be necessary to keep pace with inflation, not out of line with Mr. Cheney's proposed cuts over the next three years or Mr. Sasser's suggestions for a somewhat longer period.
Assuming a 4 percent rate of inflation, an average 5 percent cut after inflation would lead to a Pentagon budget of about $280 billion in actual dollars in fiscal year 1994, or about $230 billion in 1990 dollars.

GRAPHIC: graph of the Pentagon budget for '90 to '94 (Source: House Budget Committee)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING DEFENSE SPENDING (93%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CHENEY, DICK (SEC) DICK CHENEY (89%); 



8 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Army Doesn't Have to Compete With Marines;
Why We Need a Navy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
William Arkin's call to denuclearize the Navy (Op-Ed, Nov. 29) is seriously flawed and naive. Although all Americans welcome the lessened tensions in the global political climate, we must avoid actions that might adversely affect the political and economic health of our country and our allies. Dismantling our Navy is one such dangerous action. 
Mr. Arkin fails to grasp basic tenets of our requirements as a maritime nation: we are dependent on the seas for our economic health, and we have critical alliances across both oceans.
Over the years, our naval forces have been called upon to do many things. One of those has been to serve as part of a deterrent force against the Soviet threat. Equally important have been the many calls to respond to international and regional crises that affect United States citizens, as well as our national interests and those of our allies. Since 1980 alone, the President has employed naval forces in crises and contingency operations almost 50 times. Virtually none of these had anything to do with East-West confrontation.
Instead, these dealt with protecting oil shipments headed to the West, rescuing Americans who were under siege, providing assistance to refugees who were fleeing tyranny, punishing terrorists who have killed and maimed, providing regional stability while political change took place, deterring violence and protecting the peace for our friends and allies, and assisting cleanup efforts in the wake of disasters such as Hurricane Hugo, the San Francisco earthquake and the Exxon Valdez oil spill.
The discussion of the ''neither confirm nor deny'' policy is, in the final analysis, a debate over who exercises control of the mission and movement of our naval vessels - the United States or other nations through restrictive measures. By deliberately creating ambiguity, the policy makes it difficult for anyone other than ourselves to determine which nuclear-capable ships have nuclear weapons on board. We have long held that a crucial aspect of deterrence is the stability fostered by this intentional uncertainty. This policy further protects against sabotage or terrorist acts.
Mr. Arkin writes much about openness. He might ask why the Soviets are calling their new 65,000-ton aircraft carrier, the Tibilsi, which is larger than the carrier Midway, a ''heavy aircraft-carrying cruiser.'' They are doing so to circumvent the Montreux Convention, to which the Soviet Union is a signatory, which prohibits aircraft carriers from passing through the Turkish Straits. The ability of the Soviet carrier to enter the Mediterranean Sea from the Black Sea in a day's transit is important to them.
Even as our relations with the Soviet Union improve, the future will have a special requirement for flexible, mobile forces that can protect our citizens and interests around the world. Globally deployed units of the Navy and Marine Corps provide the United States with a unique ability, matched to our national needs and character, to affect world events in support of our objectives of peace, freedom and the rights of peoples to self-determi-nation.
 
(Adm.) C. A. H. TROST
Chief of Naval Operations
 Washington, Dec. 14, 1989

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (84%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; NAVIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NAVIES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); OIL SPILLS (87%); ARMED FORCES (78%); COLD WAR (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (76%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (70%); REFUGEES (67%); 

PERSON: TROST, C A H (ADM); ARKIN, WILLIAM M WILLIAM ARKIN (79%); 



9 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
The Opposition Stirs

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
''For myself, as a Democrat, respectfully,'' quietly begins the best public speaker in American politics today, ''I think we have given an appropriate period of deference to the newly victorious President.''
First he thanks Mr. Bush for ''candidly rejecting his predecessor's narrow view of life in America.'' He warns that if kinder, gentler talk is not backed up with resources, ''then he will be revealed as an unconverted, conservative Republican who has simply earned himself some cheap grace by reciting a little Democratic poetry.''
After this jab, some serious punching: ''In the campaign,'' he reminds the President, ''you said there was no money for housing or child care or education programs. Remember? 
''Now, suddenly, you've come up with $166 billion for savings and loans . . . You said you didn't have it. Where did you get it? Is it there for banks but not for babies?''
He zings that point home with specifics: ''Do we have $166 billion to fight fiscal problems but not $16 billion to fight drugs? One hundred sixty-six billion dollars to protect investors but not $20 billion to educate kids and teach them the fundamental values that could save a generation? It's there, Mr. President . . . if you want to do it.''
Finally, the peroration that pulls partisans out of their seats: ''If the Administration says that we have the will but not the wallet; the desire but not the ability; the intention but not the imagination, that the country has run out of resources, that we have run out of steam - then we will know the flag they've been waving so furiously is a flag of surrender! And the American people will never accept that!''
That ringing oratory is delivered with passion by the Governor of New York, Mario Cuomo.
Nobody is listening yet; you don't see those words on television or even quoted in a newspaper. It's too soon, the fun is in foreign affairs, and the public is readier to quell than cavil.
This weekend, as the President's supremely confident staff is passing around drafts of the State of the Union message, New York's hungry Governor puts the finishing flourishes on his State of the State address. The two speeches are the opening guns of the 1992 Presidential campaign.
What makes me think Mario is going for it this time? (That's pronounced marry-o; mah-rio on non-Italian lips is a subtle ethnic slur.) Little signals count: for the first time since he became Governor, he granted no executive clemencies at the end of the year. Somebody remembers Willie Horton.
A bigger signal is the Presidential focus of his interests. When members of a delegation from Solidarity visited him, Mr. Cuomo discovered they were unfamiliar with the writings of Abraham Lincoln. Forty top scholars assembled by Prof. Gabor Boritt of Gettysburg College are now choosing those works of Lincoln to be translated into Polish that will best help the new Government learn democracy.
Seeking to capture Lincoln for his party just as candidate Reagan captured F.D.R., the Governor thinks big about the peace dividend: ''Use it to bring down the deficit and interest rates,'' he tells me, ''and to answer national interests, like drugs and education - you can't get away with that 'goals' stuff; and to help Eastern Europe make it with a market economy.''
That's a national candidate at work, honing his themes. Practical question: Should he run for re-election this year? Reagan's route was to leave the governorship and concentrate on running for President; Gov. Dukakis held on to his post and was putting out home fires throughout his campaign.
That suggests it makes more sense these days to leave the state house first. But if he left Albany, would Mario control the New York delegation at the Democratic Convention? He is a loner, and if succeeded by a Democrat in office - Robert Abrams, Liz Holtzman, Andrew Stein, Felix Rohatyn or Arthur Liman - he could count on no automatic deliverance of delegates.
Forget the old favorite-son approach. The former Governor would win the New York delegation in a primary. Besides, a Republican would probably become New York governor in time for the next recession. Rudolph Giuliani and Chief Judge Sol Wachtler would slug it out in a primary, unless Jack Kemp decided to return. (Mario observes innocently, ''But Jack's no longer a resident.'') I like Mario. (I like Nixon too; what does that say?) With George Bush's popularity peaking, Democratic White House stock is at an all-time low. Good time to buy. Mario Cuomo knows that; listen to his speeches.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CHILDREN (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); SAVINGS & LOANS (68%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (92%); 



10 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Returning Legislators Face Tough Demands in Albany

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 31

 BODY:
After a six-month break, their longest in 19 years, New York State lawmakers will gather here Wednesday to begin a new session. But, pressed with demands for greater spending and hemmed in by what appears to be a near-chronic budget deficit, few legislators seem particularly eager to return.
''We're coming back to a very depressing situation, especially because it's an election year,'' said Saul Weprin, the Queens Democrat who is chairman of the Assembly's Ways and Means Committee. All 211 legislative seats, as well as the governor's office and several other statewide positions, will be up for election in November. 
As it was in 1989, the state's money problems are expected to be the overarching issue of the session, with the Legislature having two years' worth of fiscal headaches to confront.
Aside from trying to close a potential budget gap of at least $1 billion in the fiscal year that begins in April, lawmakers will be forced to deal with a shortfall in the current year's budget that is estimated to be at least $250 million, according to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's budget office, and could grow significantly larger.
 
Many Issues Center on Money
At the same time, many of the major issues before the Legislature revolve around the question of money, issues that include federally mandated changes in welfare laws aimed at getting more recipients to work, a relief package for the state's financially ailing hospitals and demands for greatly expanded anti-drug programs. So do pleas from various advocates that the state float new bonds for everything from land acquisition to housing construction.
A few issues, of course, will not focus on finances. One of them is the death penalty, which has been passed by the Legislature in each of the last seven years and has been vetoed by Governor Cuomo. Death-penalty proponents say they are closer than ever to gathering enough votes to override a veto, although no such vote was held in 1989 because two key members of the State Senate were not able to vote on the matter, one due to illness and the other because of a fraud conviction.
Advocates on both sides of the issue said it was too early to predict an outcome for the coming year, especially with special elections still to be held for three Assembly seats, all vacated in November by members who won election to other posts.
 
The Abortion Issue
Abortion may well be a major issue in some of next fall's elections, but it is not expected to emerge as a dominant issue in the new legislative session.
''In general, people on either side of the issue prefer that it not be brought up,'' said Ralph J. Marino, a Republican from Oyster Bay, who is the Senate majority leader. Historically, Senate Republicans have tried to restrict financing for abortions in the state. Abortion rights advocates, meanwhile, are not pushing for expansion of New York's abortion laws, which are among the most permissive in the nation.
The official kickoff of the 1990 session is to come shortly after noon on Wednesday, when the Governor is to deliver his annual State of the State Message. While Mr. Cuomo may emphasize new funds in a handful of areas, including drug treatment and a bond issue for state land purchases, his general message is likely to be a dour one: money is tight, so restraint is the watchword.
 
'Essentially Unrealistic'
That message has already put the Governor at odds with a variety of officials. For instance, the state's Chief Judge, Sol Wachtler, has called for a 10 percent increase in financing for the state's courts and has been told that his request is ''essentially unrealistic.''
The war over the new budget will almost certainly include a prolonged battle over whether the state should preserve a $400 million cut in personal income taxes scheduled for 1990. A similar cut was enacted in 1989 but only after lawmakers raised $1 billion by imposing all kinds of other taxes and fees.
Aside from the budget, here are some of the other major issues the Legislature is expected to face in 1990:
Drugs Even as he emphasizes the state's fiscal plight, Mr. Cuomo is likely to endorse at least a few anti-drug measures. Among possible proposals are creation of one or more large ''drug campuses'' to treat up to 10,000 addicts, or a significant expansion of drug-treatment openings in smaller settings.
Still, for all the attention the issue commands, it is far from certain that new initiatives will generate strong support in the Legislature. ''There are no clear answers to the drug problem,'' said Assembly Speaker Mel Miller, a Brooklyn Democrat. ''In some areas, like hospitals, everyone will agree that with resources you can start to fix the problem. In drugs, I am not convinced that more money is going to be the answer.''
 
Hospitals
With the state's hospitals posting annual operating deficits totaling $1 billion, many hospital executives are pleading with the state to devise a ''bailout'' plan to avert closings or cutbacks in essential services.
The Legislature will be forced to confront that problem because it is required to revise the state's system for reimbursing hospitals for the care they provide. The current system expires on Dec. 31, 1990.
The basic question involves how the state determines what the hospitals' operating costs should be. The current formula uses 1981 hospital expenses as a base year, with increases for each succeeding year pegged to the inflation rate. But hospital executives contend that this system undercounts the tremendous effects of wage increases, new technology and the strain of AIDS care. Under a more realistic appraisal of costs, they say, reimbursement rates would be much higher.
 
Schools
New York City's new Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez, is expected to begin a strong push for a series of changes that would require legislative approval, including elimination of principals' right to tenure at particular schools and the dismantling of the board that controls teacher licensing in the city. The outcome of many of those questions is likely to be strongly influenced by the degree to which Mr. Cuomo offers support to Mr. Fernandez.
 
Welfare System
Another matter that the Legislature must address this year is revision of the state's welfare system. A 1988 Federal law imposes new requirements by October 1990 to get more welfare recipients to work, but it gives considerable leeway to the states in crafting the guidelines.
Negotiations to devise the new system in 1989 bogged down in the Legislature over how much money the state should offer for child care, education programs and other measures that could insure productive work for welfare recipients.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ASSEMBLY'S WAYS (66%); STATE SENATE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WELFARE (US) BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BOND ISSUES (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (69%); DRUG POLICY (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (62%); ABORTION (60%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



11 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL
 
Brazil's orange producers stand to profit handsomely from frost damage in Florida. Bolstered by a record crop, 1990 exports are expected to surge by as much as 36 percent, to a record $1.5 billion. To Brazilians, the orange has become a symbol of easy wealth; a popular soap opera centers on the industry. The nation now accounts for three-quarters of the world's orange juice market. [31.] 
 
Tokyo's stock market is going its own stable and buoyant way. By providing a steady pool of low-cost capital, the market supplies ample financing to Japanese corporations for research and development, building factories and training employees - all of which strengthen the Japanese economy. [31.]
 
In the world's markets, 1989 was a year of surprises, and countries like Austria and West Germany, which stand to benefit from political changes in Europe, showed the strongest gains. [34.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Not all investors in Lincoln Savings and Loan were losers. Because of a Reagan Administration policy intended to bolster the savings industry, Bankers Trust was able to sell hundreds of millions of dollars of the insolvent savings association's best assets for the benefit of foreign financial institutions six days after Lincoln was seized by Federal regulators. [31.]
 
The annual convention of the American Economic Association attracted some 6,550 economists for discussions on topics like the transformation of Communist economies in Eastern Europe and the most equitable form of taxation. [32.]
 
Extending the life of the current fleet of bulk-cargo ships will be a priority in the shipping industry in the next few years, experts say. New ships have become much more costly, credit is scarcer and shipowners are wary of repeating past mistakes by ordering ships that may be delivered after they are no longer needed. [31.]
 
An industrial consortium is being formed in Ohio to turn unclassified military research breakthroughs into products. [36.]
 
Martin Marietta entered the commercial launch business as a Titan 3 rocket carrying British and Japanese communications satellites roared into space after nine postponements. [11.]
 
THE MEDIA BUSINESS
 
Hollywood's big names and big studios are flocking to Mexico to make feature films and television movies. The country's attractions include low production costs, spectacular settings, skilled local technicians and proximity to the U.S. [31.]
 
There seems to be no escaping Madison Avenue's long arm, as advertisers move electronically into shopping malls and bus and train stations. [35.]
 
The nation's largest book market remains the New York metropolitan area, according to a survey by the American Booksellers Association. Austin, Tex., boasts the nation's highest bookstore sales per household. [35.]
 
Some newspaper editors are questioning whether special pullout sections are worth their price in manpower and money. It is widely believed in the industry that some sections are heavily influenced by hopes of winning journalism awards. Press. [35.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMN
 
Stock buybacks have taken on a life of their own, consuming a mountain of cash that could pay for machinery or the development of products. For many companies, the buybacks guarantee a high return for shareholders. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [32.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS212321 CONSTRUCTION SAND AND GRAVEL MINING (53%); SIC1442 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL (53%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (88%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MARTIN MARIETTA AGGREGATES (53%); MARTIN MARIETTA AGGREGATES (53%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (86%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (85%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ORANGE GROVES (78%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (69%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); JOURNALISM (66%); BOOKSTORES (63%); FILM (61%); RETAILERS (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (55%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%); 



12 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: Some Lincoln Investors Escape Loss in Collapse

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31

 BODY:
The collapse of the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association produced an array of victims, from retired California investors who bought unsecured bonds to American taxpayers. But it also turns out that not all the investors in the failed institution were losers.
Thanks to a Reagan Administration policy intended to bolster the savings industry, the Bankers Trust Company was able to sell hundreds of millions of dollars of the savings unit's best assets for the benefit of foreign financial institutions six days after the savings institution was seized by Federal regulators, executives who were involved in the deal said. The sale took place even as confused Federal regulators were trying to secure those same assets, regulators and Government documents contend.
This lawful transaction is but one piece in a complicated financial structure erected by Charles H. Keating Jr., the chairman of Lincoln, and respected financial institutions with help from the Federal Government. 
Bankers Trust itself has not been charged with any improper dealings.
Thomas A. Parisi, the bank's senior vice president for corporate communications, in response to questions from a reporter, wrote that the bank's dealings were proper but that the company's ''policy of confidentiality regarding its customers' business with the bank precludes my responding to your other questions.''
 
Institutions Protected
But the story of Bankers Trust's relationship to Lincoln, pieced together from regulators' accounts and public documents, illustrates how the Government tried to help the savings and loan industry and how institutions can protect themselves against the risks small investors run.
The Government's help came in the form of the informal regulatory policy to assure Wall Street firms that sold securities issued by savings institutions, like Lincoln, that the investors' money would be readily available. In contrast, Lincoln branches were permitted to sell to small customers bonds that were uninsured and unsecured.
So far, a House Banking Committee inquiry and other investigations into the collapse of Lincoln have concentrated on Mr. Keating, whose American Continental Corporation took over Lincoln in 1984, and the five Senators and numerous lawyers who interceded with regulators on his behalf. Under Mr. Keating, Lincoln, which is based in Irvine, Calif., started making a series of investments in real estate and risky high-yield securities, which regulators were questioning.
The cornerstone for Lincoln's expansion after Mr. Keating took it over was an infusion of large brokered deposits for which Lincoln paid high fees to brokerages - in addition to the interest rates paid to depositors. Only two years later regulators were concerned that the savings and loan's ''dependence upon expensive brokered deposits,'' which were being placed by some of Wall Street's largest brokerages, could be a serious drain on the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, which insured the deposits up to $100,000, according to examination reports on Lincoln.
In the first six months, the largest source of deposits, almost $200 million, was Merrill Lynch, documents show. Later, when Merrill stopped placing new deposits, Dean Witter became the largest source, some $671 million, a 1987 examination report states.
 
Abnormally High Fees
Examiners said that the fees paid the brokerages by Lincoln were abnormally high, for example 2.86 percent in the case of Dean Witter. Spokesman for both firms said their fees were in line with industry practice.
These deposits financed Lincoln's risky investments, many of which were transferred to various subsidiaries. One such subsidiary was the Lincoln Finance Corporation, or Linfin, which was set up in 1985 and soon received some $300 million in questionable mortgages and securities from Lincoln, according to documents.
Around the same time Linfin sold $275 million in Eurodollar notes, the proceeds of which were transferred to Lincoln for various uses. The notes were secured by mortgage-backed securities first owned by Linfin, then Lincoln. The payment of interest and principal for most of the securities was guaranteed explicitly or implicitly by the Federal Government.
This kind of transaction, perfected by investment firms that underwrote the securities, was a common form of growth for the savings and loan industry in the 1980's. The Linfin note was underwritten by some of the same firms that brokered deposits into Lincoln, like Merrill Lynch, according to Lincoln's offering circular and Federal examination reports.
 
Additional Leverage
The 1986 examination report of Linfin said that the Eurodollar notes, one of a number of such offerings by Lincoln, represent ''additional leverage through off-balance-sheet financing.''
Typically the investors are large European companies and institutions attracted by the high quality of the Government-guaranteed collateral, and by the fact that in the Eurobond market investors are generally able to remain anonymous.
The trustee chosen by Lincoln for the various foreign notes was Bankers Trust, which had a variety of other financial dealings with Lincoln, acting, for example, as a clearinghouse for electronically transferred funds. Bankers Trust's reputation as a trustee for these kind of deals was good, according to documents and brokers.
 
Important to Investors
The Government policy that insured the liquidity of these kinds of notes was important to investors. Under that policy, Federal regulators in the Reagan Administration promised that in the event of a takeover or bankruptcy filing, the Government would relinquish its claim on the underlying collateral and allow investors or noteholders to take possession, bankers and regulators say.
Lawrence J. White, a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board from 1986 until earlier this year, said that the board, in adopting this policy, tried to be ''sympathetic'' to savings and loans and their need to grow, since giving investors first claim meant the savings units could sell the notes at a lower cost.
That was the plus. ''The minus,'' Mr. White said of the Government's decision to subordinate its interest in the assets, ''was that in the event of an insurance action, what was left was crummy assets.'' The policy presents a risk for the insurance fund, Mr. White said, and he now thinks savings and loans should pay for that in the form of a premium.
 
Confused Regulators
As the Federal insurance fund took control of Lincoln in April, regulators were ''confused'' by Lincoln's finances, according to Jill Spencer, general counsel of the Federal Home Home Loan Bank of San Francisco, which supervised Lincoln.
Ms. Spencer said the home loan bank wanted the mortgage-backed securities held by Lincoln, but pledged to Linfin note holders, as ''additional collateral'' for hundreds of millions of dollars in advances the San Francisco bank had made to Lincoln.
Five days after Bankers Trust liquidated the securities for the benefit of the noteholders, the bank was still talking with regulators about the collateral. But, Ms. Spencer said, the bank ''sort of gave up on this collateral'' and turned to other collateral instead.
 
Millions Transferred
A few days before the Government took over Lincoln, millions of dollars were also transferred out of Lincoln to Bankers Trust, said a House Banking Committee investigator who asked not to be identified.
A former regulator, who also asked not to be identified, said there were so many wire transfers between Lincoln and Bankers Trust that it took several days to straighten them out. Committee investigators want to know what happened to the money and whether the electronic withdrawals made Lincoln short of cash.
The committee is also interested in the relationship between Lincoln and a senior vice president of Bankers Trust, Barbara Thomas, who was a commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission from 1980 to 1983. She joined Bankers Trust in 1986. The executive also had personal financial dealings with Lincoln and lobbied Federal regulators on the savings institution's behalf.
 
'Unique Repayment Terms'
When Ms. Thomas, who was in charge of international private banking, went to borrow money from Lincoln, she received what the Banking Committee chairman, Henry B. Gonzalez of Texas, called ''unique repayment'' terms.
According to committee aides, Ms. Thomas has borrowed $250,000 under a 1987 unsecured line of credit that requires no payment of principal until the credit line expires in 1990. Between 1986 and 1989, Ms. Thomas made several approaches to Federal regulators on Lincoln's behalf, including an unsuccessful attempt in 1986 to obtain confidential examination data about the savings and loan, according to testimony before the Banking Committee.
She may have also received consulting fees from Lincoln. Bank examination reports show that examiners questioned a number of undocumented Lincoln consulting arrangements, including one for $100,000 in 1987 for a ''B. Thomas.''
Ms. Thomas was not available to talk with a reporter, Mr. Parisi, the Bankers Trust spokesman, said.

GRAPHIC: photo of Charles H. Keating Jr. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL CORP (63%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKERS TRUST CO (NYC); AMERICAN CONTINENTAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; BANKRUPTCIES; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BONDS (89%); NEW ISSUES (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; KEATING, CHARLES H JR RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



13 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Market: Now a Leader

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 31

 BODY:
At a time when bankers and economists speak of a global financial village, with the world's centers of finance closely linked and interdependent, the Tokyo stock market is increasingly going its own stable and buoyant way.
With Japan's wealth growing dramatically in recent years, the Japanese stock market is now watched as a leader, often admired and envied in New York and London. By providing a steady pool of low-cost capital, the Tokyo market supplies ample funds to Japanese corporations for spending on research and development, building new factories and training employees - all of which strengthen the Japanese economy.
The aspect of the Japanese market's performance gaining the most attention is its relative stability. Today Tokyo, not New York, is more and more being looked on as a possible model of how a stock market should be run, a dramatic conceptual shift that underscores the importance that financial experts are starting to place on stability for fostering economic health.
 
A Lesson for the West
''The interesting thing is how the Japanese manage to incorporate a huge amount of change and yet remain stable,'' said Robert Alan Feldman, economist here for Salomon Brothers. ''That is something for the West to consider.'' 
Perhaps the most telling statement one can make about the powerful Japanese stock market is noting what did not happen here in the last few years: the Tokyo Stock Exchange did not crash along with Wall Street in October 1987 and barely budged last October, when the markets in New York again went into a tailspin.
Indeed, after declining less than 2 percent to New York's 7 percent on Oct. 13, the market here glided gently upward to close 1989 at a record 38,915.87, up 31 percent for the year and largely free of the volatile jolts that afflicted New York.
''There was a time when people here always took New York as the barometer, when it seemed as if Tokyo reacted so strongly to whatever happened there,'' said Lawrence S. Prager, a senior analyst and stock strategist for Nikko Securities. ''I don't know when exactly, but that has definitely changed and Tokyo has taken off more on its own.''
 
'Shot Off Like a Rocket'
''Ten or 15 years ago, if there was anxiety elsewhere Tokyo just sucked it up,'' added Roy Smith, former head of Goldman, Sachs's international operations and now a business professor at New York University. ''But the Japanese are not dependent on foreigners now. Tokyo just sort of shot off like a rocket in the latter half of the 80's on its own.''
The tremendous wealth built up in Japan in the last several years accounts for much of this shift in the balance of financial power. The Government estimated that at the end of last year Japan had ''national assets'' worth $43.75 trillion, compared with $19.4 trillion at the end of 1985.
''International power is now in Tokyo,'' said Kazuo Otaka, deputy general manager of Daiwa Securities' investment advisory department.
Japanese have been using some of this growing cash hoard to buy up huge amounts of American stocks and bonds, while foreigners, and Americans especially, have been slowly selling off their Japanese securities.
In the first eight months of 1989, for instance, Japanese made net purchases of foreign shares, mostly American, of $15 billion. At the same time, foreign investors made $14.5 billion of net sales of Japanese stocks. That trend has only underscored the lessening influence of foreign capital on the market here. In the early 1980's, roughly 20 percent of the turnover in Tokyo was attributed to foreigners, while today the figure is less than 10 percent.
 
Influence Growing Steadily
At the same time, Tokyo's financial influence in the United States and elsewhere has grown relentlessly. Mere rumors about how much of the American Government's Treasury bond auctions the Japanese will buy can send the bond market sharply up or down.
The new wealth here has also meant that turnover on the Tokyo Stock Exchange is significantly higher than in New York now and that the total value of Tokyo stocks has, since 1988, exceeded the total value of shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
This boom has reflected a remarkable surge in the Japanese economy over the last five years, which some are starting to call the second economic miracle because of how successfully Japanese industry has transformed itself into a more efficient and more technology-oriented engine of growth.
The steady climb of the Japanese market has been particularly noteworthy because, starting in late 1985, the United States and Japan have seen a doubling in the yen's value, a shock that sharply reduced the competitiveness of Japan's export industries. Nonetheless, under the watchful eye of powerful Government bureaucrats, the economy and the stock market shrugged off those problems and changed as needed to adapt to the new conditions.
 
Philosophical Watershed
Japan's performance has prompted a re-examination in the West of the merits of more stable and more controlled financial markets, with Tokyo as the model example. The philosophical watershed on Wall Street came with the stock market crash in 1987. Although a free market approach had been gaining ground elsewhere in the economy, for the first time Wall Street began to think seriously about creating restraints in the market, oriented toward trying to dampen volatility; in other words, it is trying to make New York more like Tokyo, where a range of formal and informal mechanisms limited price swings after October 1987 and helped them rebound smoothly shortly afterward.
The New York Stock Exchange suddenly began to call for ''circuit breakers,'' ways to halt the market and give a brief cooling-off period when it rose or fell sharply; Tokyo has had them for years.
The Big Board began to consider various ways to stop program trading, a computer-driven strategy that some regard as a source of volatility; Japanese Government authorities were late in introducing stock index futures, necessary to many forms of program trading, and have made it difficult to do program trading on a large scale.
The philosophical shift was completed earlier this month when the New York Stock Exchange took out a full-page ad in newspapers to declare a campaign to try to obtain the kind of stability that Tokyo has taken for granted.
 
'A Serious Threat'
''Excess volatility is a serious threat to our nation's capital markets and the American economy,'' said John J. Phelan Jr., the exchange's chairman.
That this volatility does more than hurt or help speculators has become increasingly evident in the contrast between New York and Tokyo in their abilities to raise capital for corporations - in theory, the fundamental purpose of the market.
After trailing New York for years, the Tokyo Stock Exchange surpassed New York at the time of the 1987 crash. For the first eight months of this year Japanese companies raised $110 billion in new capital, more than five times the amount American companies raised in New York from stock offerings during the same time.
There are, of course, many features of the Tokyo stock market that the United States could not emulate and probably would not like to. Japan's big four securities houses exercise immense power here, companies pay minuscule dividends and smaller shareholders have fewer means of exercising their rights as corporate owners.
 
Strength of the Groups
In addition, most major companies and financial institutions are organized into groups, known as keiretsu, in which all the members maintain large shareholdings in one another. These relationships tend to bolster the group and block out outsiders. They also make hostile takeovers all but impossible.
On top of that, any independence being exercised by the Tokyo stock market is relative. In fact, capital is flowing more and more freely across national borders, forcing each country to adjust to major economic shifts elsewhere.
Tokyo is in a process of deregulation now, which in some ways is tending to bring it into line with United States financial markets. But the extraordinarily slow pace of the changes and the care with which they are being worked out with the affected companies tend to insure few disruptions and the maintenance of stability.
The end result is that a market that entered the 1980's subsidiary to New York's overwhelming influence is now, at the least, standing on its own, sticking to its own ways and exercising more influence over the rest of the financial system.

GRAPHIC: graph of Nikkei average from '80 to '89 (Source: Interative Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE (97%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); BONDS (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES



14 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Stock Buybacks Vs. Risky Outlays

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
FOR six years, American corporations have been buying their own stock in a big way. The original idea was to help protect the company from a takeover. But now the takeover threat is waning while the buybacks are as strong as ever. Clearly, they have taken on a life of their own, with important consequences for America's economy.
Most companies pay for stock repurchases from profits or other funds on hand. Indeed, years of economic growth allowed corporate America to bank more than $120 billion since 1985, according to the Commerce Department. This mountain of cash could be paying for advanced machinery or, to take a gamble, financing the development of valuable new products: a new television technology, a supersonic commercial aircraft, a breakthrough medicine. 
And some is, but buying back stock has gotten the nod as the surest, most profitable way for a company to put the money to use.
The choices are not black and white. Three companies that recently announced large buybacks, the General Electric Company, the NCR Corporation and the Union Camp Corporation, also spend on new factories and research. But they are doing so these days only up to a point. ''A number of companies are in effect saying that they already have too much invested in plant and equipment to earn an adequate return,'' said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers.
NCR illustrates the thinking. The company spent $416 million in 1988 and a bit more last year on the research and development of a range of products, from cash registers to main-frame computers. All this outlay came from retained earnings, but NCR was so profitable that at the end of September, it still had $600 million in the bank.
The problem, as NCR management sees it, is that the company must earn at least 14 cents for every dollar invested in stock, or its shareholders would be justified in putting their money elsewhere. But beyond the $400 million-plus now being invested each year, NCR cannot find projects that it considers a good bet to return the required 14 percent in a short enough period of time, according to Mary Combs, NCR's assistant treasurer.
''We have a very strong shareholder concept, and we have become very clear about this in the last three years,'' she said. ''If we have an investment opportunity that will give us a great enough return, that's fine, but if not, the money should go back to the shareholders.''
True to this view, NCR announced just before Christmas that it would buy back 15 million shares over the next two years ($870 million at NCR's current price of $58 a share). This latest announcement brings NCR's buyback commitment to 35 million shares since December 1987. Once the task is completed, NCR will have only 55 million shares still outstanding.
''The choices seem to be to eventually become a private company or to go into some real cash-eating, risky investments,'' Ms. Combs said. ''Hopefully we will in time take the latter road and still satisfy shareholders.''
The mathematics behind the insistence on a high return for shareholders is fairly standard in American business today. Ms. Combs and others set as a goal the 8 to 9 percent annual return that a shareholder could earn simply by buying 10-year Treasury bonds. To that they add a 6 percent risk premium for equity, since the interest paid on Treasury bonds is a sure thing while the return to a shareholder is not.
The logic of that math generates pressure to engage in buybacks. The Commerce Department reports that the average after-tax return on equity nationwide was 14.5 percent at an annual rate through the first half of 1989, down from 15.3 percent in 1988. As economic growth slows and profits decline, the temptation grows to increase per share earnings by reducing the number of shares outstanding.
''Buybacks provide instant gratification; capital investment takes longer to pay off,'' said Stephen S. Roach, a senior economist at Morgan Stanley.
With fewer shares outstanding, each one automatically represents a bigger chunk of a company's earnings, which presumably attracts investors, pushes up the stock price and makes a takeover less likely. But other factors also help to explain why announced stock buybacks jumped above $10 billion in 1984, reaching $76 billion in 1987, and settling in at $55 billion in 1988 and nearly as much in 1989, according to data collected by Laszlo Birinyi of Birinyi Associates.
The chief explanation involves the October 1987 crash and the plunge in stock prices last Oct. 13, events that made owning stocks unappetizing no matter what the return on equity. Buybacks surged in early 1988 and they are rising once again, as executives try to nudge stock prices up to what they think their companies are worth.
General Electric's shares, for example, have risen by 10 percent since Nov. 17, when G.E. announced it would repurchase $10 billion in shares over five years. And a spokesman for Union Camp, the paper company, said its board had authorized a buyback of five million shares ''to be ready to act quickly if stock prices plunge again.''
Finally, some companies, like General Electric, had channeled retained earnings into diversification - in G.E.'s case, the purchase of the RCA Corporation and Kidder, Peabody, the Wall Street firm. Now excess cash is going into buybacks. ''They are a signal that diversification is no longer so desirable,'' said Walter Joelson, G.E.'s chief economist.
Neither, apparently, are huge, risky - but potentially innovative - capital investments, although such outlays are essential if the United States is to keep up with Japanese and West German industries, many economists believe. Last year's announced buybacks represented 10 percent of the $500 billion in capital spending that was undertaken in 1989 in the United States. As Mr. Biryini put it: ''A buyback is a middle-of-the-road investment decision, between doing nothing, which risks a takeover, and making a long-term commitment that the stock market won't be quick to reward.''

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NCR (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (69%); GEC (LSE) (69%); GE (SWX) (69%); GE (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: NCR CORP (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (69%); UNION CAMP CORP (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; CORPORATIONS TAKEOVERS (91%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (87%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%); BONDS (66%); CHRISTMAS (60%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS MARY COMBS (59%); 



15 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Economists Take Up The World's Problems

BYLINE: By LEONARD SILK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Dec. 31

 BODY:
An ancient economics scoring rule is that a session is a failure when the size of the panel exceeds the size of the audience; by that measure, most of the sessions at the annual convention of the American Economic Association here were a success.
More than 2,500 economists served as chairmen, paper givers or discussants on one or more of the 472 panels organized by the 41 professional bodies under the umbrella of the Allied Social Science Associations, but they were well outnumbered at the convention, for altogether some 6,550 economists, most of them college professors, descended on this city.
Some sessions - like those on the transformation of the Eastern European economies - were so popular that extra loudspeakers and folding chairs had to be set up in hallways.
 
Helping to Offset Complaints
The sessions were also a success in hitting most of the major topics of the day, thus helping to offset complaints about the economists' ability to forecast. There were also sessions on the prospects of a peace dividend resulting from the end of the cold war, and on whether the United States is losing out to Japan, West Germany or others because of its declining savings rate. 
This year's presidential address, prepared by the late Joseph A. Pechman of the Brookings Institution and delivered by his colleague, Henry Aaron, defended the progressive income tax as the most equitable tax, based on the principle of ability to pay.
Despite what he called ''an incessant barrage'' from two groups of economists who favor either a spending tax or a flat-rate income tax, Mr. Pechman noted that no country in the world was planning to abandon the income tax or even considering a personal spending tax. He said the wave of change, starting with the Tax Reform Act of 1986 in the United States, that was sweeping the world ''was aimed at improving the income tax, not eliminating it.''
 
Tax Base Broadened
Tax preferences that were once regarded as sacrosanct, he added, were being eliminated and the tax base broadened, thereby making possible steep cuts in income tax rates.
''It will come as no surprise to this audience,'' Mr. Pechman said, ''that I approved of the base-broadening feature of the current tax-reform movement.''
Mr. Pechman used the huge file of tax data he had constructed at Brookings to show that the progressivity of the United States tax system - never very pronounced except during and immediately after the two world wars - has been declining for more than two decades and that the 1986 law had reversed this decline only slightly.
The discussions of how to turn the socialist economies into market economies, or how to blend socialism and capitalism, involved a great deal of speculation, even anxiety, as to whether the degree of central planning and control that the socialist leaders still want can be efficiently combined with free markets.
 
Need for Trust Stressed
John M. Litwack of Stanford University stressed that a serious problem of the new socialist governments would be to achieve credibility, especially in their tax systems. People who feared the governments of the past and expected that policy changes would deprive them of their incomes would have little incentive to produce more and get out of the underground economy; it is therefore vital that trust in government be established.
David Colander of Middlebury College said he and his associates, Kenneth Koford and Jeffrey Miller, would be trying to sell the Soviet Union a solution to the problem of how to combine price stability with high employment and strong economic growth that they had failed to sell in the United States.
The solution, originally proposed by the late Prof. Abba P. Lerner in the 1960's, would be to create a ''market for prices,'' in which the total monetary demand for goods and services would be held to a non-inflationary level, while individual enterprises that wanted price increases could buy the rights to such increases from other enterprises willing to hold prices constant or reduce them.
 
Incredibly Difficult Concept
This would keep average prices stable, so that additions to money demand would be translated into real increases in production and real rises in jobs. But the concept seemed incredibly difficult to put into effect to those economists attending these meetings.
Jan Dutta of Rutgers University, a specialist on the Chinese Communist economy, said he thought American economists were ''only looking at their thumbs, not yet doing serious thumb-sucking.''
Michael J. Boskin, chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, said the job of making socialism more effective was overwhelmingly the problem of the socialists themselves.
On another issue, Mr. Boskin maintained that the peace dividend, when it emerged, should be used for reducing the budget deficit, not for new programs. He also re-emphasized President Bush's intention of not seeking to close the budget gap by raising taxes, but by trimming expenditures.
Murray L. Weidenbaum, the first chairman of President Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers, suggested that the peace dividend, although important, would not bulk large in the American economic future. ''The generally accepted belief among economists,'' he said, was that ''the American economy could attain prosperity with a defense establishment greatly reduced from the present level.''
 
'Relatively Minor Player'
''The defense program,'' Mr. Weidenbaum added, ''is a relatively minor player in the American economy, accounting for one-fifteenth of the G.N.P. and an even smaller proportion of the nation's work force. Economic activity in the United States marches essentially to the beat of civilian drummers.''
He said, however, that as a consequence of the peace dividend a geographic shift in income and employment could be expected from the aerospace and electronics companies on the West Coast and New England to the more conventional industries of the Middle West.
Mr. Weidenbaum added that a ''high or even rapidly rising level of defense spending does not necessarily mean that the nation is becoming more secure.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); GERMANY (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (58%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIED SOCIAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATIONS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (86%); INCOME TAX (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); TRENDS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); TAX REFORM (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD HENRY LOUIS 'HANK' AARON (54%); 



16 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE: FINANCIAL NEWSMAKERS OF 1989 - SIX WHO MADE THE HEADLINES IN AMERICA AND ABROAD;
Exchange Chairman Aims to Polish Image Of Futures Industry: LEO MELAMED, Chicago Merc

BYLINE: By Eric N. Berg

 BODY:
In the world of commodity futures trading, Leo Melamed is widely considered to be the chief lobbyist, spokesman and public relations man - and an adept one at that. In 1990, Mr. Melamed, the chairman of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's executive committee, will need all those qualities and others to restore his industry's tarnished image.
The problem is the continuing investigation into trading abuse on the floor of the Merc and the Chicago Board of Trade. In addition to producing about 47 indictments and about half as many guilty pleas, the investigation has prompted lawmakers to consider tighter regulation of the futures business. 
That is something Mr. Melamed dreads, having championed the idea of ''self-regulation'' in futures and been a founding chairman of the National Futures Association, a self-regulatory group.
This is not the first time Mr. Melamed has had to beat back attempts at tighter control. In 1987 the Merc was accused of contributing to the market crash but Mr. Melamed appeared before Congressional committees to give Chicago's version. It was his testimony, experts said, that partly led Congress not to impose a tighter lease on the industry.
Around the time the indictments were made public, the Federal Government issued a report charging that both Chicago exchanges' systems for policing trading activity were lacking. It has thus fallen heavily on Mr. Melamed - a diminutive, black-haired man - to ease the concerns of those who have begun to question whether the futures markets can be trusted.
He must do this while pursuing another important project, Globex, the Merc's computerized trading system that is already several months behind schedule.
If his history is any guide, however, Mr. Melamed is almost certain not to shun a battle with critics. His background is filled with stories of personal struggle and extraordinary efforts to succeed.
Born in Poland, Mr. Melamed moved with his parents to Chicago shortly before Pearl Harbor. Years later, to support his wife and child and pay his way through law school, he drove a cab. He borrowed $3,100 from his father to begin trading egg futures at what was then the Merc's predecessor. Striking it rich later in pork-belly futures, he organized the young Merc members who created committees to develop new contracts.
Mr. Melamed's contribution to that effort: The creation of futures contracts based on foreign currencies and on the interest rate being paid on Eurodollars. That success, and others, has already earned Mr. Melamed a reputation as one of the driving forces behind financial futures.

GRAPHIC: photo of Leo Melamed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (67%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (92%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NATIONAL FUTURES ASSOCIATION (56%); NATIONAL FUTURES ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; ETHICS; VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS FUTURES (95%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); TESTIMONY (77%); ETHICS (76%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MELAMED, LEO; BERG, ERIC N LEO MELAMED (97%); 



17 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE: FINANCIAL NEWSMAKERS OF 1989 - SIX WHO MADE THE HEADLINES IN AMERICA AND ABROAD;
European Leader Watches a Vision Transform Into Reality: JACQUES DELORS, European Commission

BYLINE: By Steven Greenhouse

 BODY:
There is still a lot of the professor in Jacques Delors, the 64-year-old president of the European Commission, the European Community's excutive branch. But unlike most professors, Mr. Delors, who used to teach at France's elite Ecole Nationale d'Administration, has the opportunity so see much of his vision transformed into reality.
Mr. Delors, an intense, almost driven man, is fascinated by monetary and economic matters, and has used his command in those areas to help implement his vision. 
When he took the helm of the European Commission in 1985, he made removing internal trade barriers with the community his No. 1 goal. Now many people say there is a good chance that he will succeed in his goal of toppling those barriers by the end of 1992.
In 1989, Mr. Delors embraced a new goal to build on the previous one: he wants to create a single European central bank and a single currency, moves that he says are necessary to gain maximum benefit from a united Europe. His frequent rival, Britain's Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, along with many economists derided this notion as pie in the sky, saying it required far more abandonment of sovereignty than many nations would accept.
Despite the odds, Mr. Delors scored a major victory in December by helping persuade the leaders of the 12 community nations to call a special conference next year where they will consider changes in the community treaty to allow for creation of a single central bank.
Mr. Delors, who was France's Finance Minister from 1981 to 1984, is not totally consumed by community activities. He goes to church every Sunday, and keeps active in France's Socialist Party, some say with the hope of becoming France's Prime Minister or even President some day.
Mr. Delors says his Catholic and Socialist impulses pushed him to call for a ''European Social Charter,'' a document establishing minimum rights for Europe's workers. Mrs. Thatcher was again his principal foe on this issue, but again he racked up a big victory in December, when 11 of 12 community leaders approved the Social Charter.
Mr. Delors joined the Bank of France at the age of 20, and developed his economic expertise while working there, much of it through reading. He remains an avid reader, spending his vacation last summer reading about what basic notions tie Europeans together. That reading came in handy because the leaders at last July's economic summit conference in Paris, recognizing the growing importance of the European Community, decided that the community should coordinate the West's aid efforts to Eastern Europe.

GRAPHIC: photo of Jacques Delors

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; DELORS, JACQUES JACQUES LUCIEN JEAN DELORS (97%); MARGARET THATCHER (55%); 



18 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE: FINANCIAL NEWSMAKERS OF 1989 - SIX WHO MADE THE HEADLINES IN AMERICA AND ABROAD;
Soviet Deputy Prime Minister Is Seeking A Safe Path Through a Time of Change: LEONID ABALKIN, Soviet Adviser

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
In the rapidly changing world of perestroika, Leonid Abalkin is not the only economist of influence. But he is apparently highly valued for his political flexibility and grace under pressure.
And this year the chain-smoking 59-year old academician emerged as the expert the Soviet Prime Minister, Nikolai Ryzhkov, has charged with finding a safe path through the treacherous waters of economic change. 
Mr. Abalkin, the economists Abel Aganbegyan and Oleg Bogomolov and the sociologist Tatiana Zaslavskaya, were chosen in the mid-1980's to serve as a sort of economic kitchen cabinet for President Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
In the first heady years of reform, Mr. Aganbegyan got most of the limelight, giving interviews to the western press and publishing books in English. But while the hefty Georgian was roving Europe and America as the unofficial ambassador for perestroika, Mr. Abalkin was being installed as director of the Soviet Academy of Science's Institute of the Economy - a bastion of establishment power. And last summer Mr. Abalkin was appointed a Deputy Prime Minister.
Some western economists who heard Mr. Abalkin lecture on economic change in 1986 were not overly impressed. He showed little understanding, they said, of how free market economies worked, and little appreciation for the difficulties in making the transition from central planning.
But he reportedly managed to build easy working relationships with both party bigwigs and more reform-minded elements of the Soviet bureaucracy. And in recent months Mr. Abalkin has been soaking up economic wisdom from Western economists ranging from the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, to Ed Hewett, a Brookings Institution Fellow.
In November he presented a frank analysis of the Soviet Union's economic predicament to a conference of senior Soviet economists. ''The past four years of strenuous efforts,'' he acknowledged, ''have not led to any of the projected results. Far from improving, the situation continues to deteriorate.''
The detailed plan Mr. Abalkin presented to the economists' conference, and later approved as legislation, keeps in place a variety of price controls for years to come. But it also formally acknowledges that the private market is ''the most democratic form of regulating economic activity.'' And it advocates wholesale adoption of capitalist institutions ranging from an open stock market to the control of demand with monetary policy.
Is it intellectually consistent? Perhaps not. But consistency may prove to be the least important of virtues to one of perestroika's hard-pressed champions who in the view of pessimists, are one stumble away from economic anarchy.

GRAPHIC: photo of Leonid Abalkin

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SMOKING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); BOOK PUBLISHING (54%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; ABALKIN, LEONID I ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



19 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
A Year of Surprises Benefits European Stocks

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
In the world's stock markets, 1989 was a year of the unexpected.
The year's biggest surprise - the startling political changes in Eastern Europe - dramatically shifted the focus of investors to the markets in Europe, which had already benefited from the transformation of Communist governments in the Eastern bloc.
The main beneficiary, West Germany's Bund, is surging, and rose more than 4 percent just last Wednesday. After ranking 19th of 20 national markets at the end of March, on a Morgan Stanley & Company index of selected stocks, West Germany is ending the year in second place, trailing only Austria but leading all of the other major industrial economies.
The Japanese stock market, which has outperformed the world's stock markets for years, again hit record highs, even surpassing the predictions of a year earlier. But to the surprise of many, the world's other markets performed even better than Tokyo's. 
 
Relative Decline for Japan
For the first time since 1982, the growth in the rest of the world's markets surpassed that of Japan's in dollar terms, according to the Morgan Stanley index. Japan, which was the top performer among major industrial economies in the 1988 index, had the market with the smallest gain in dollar terms last year.
On the basis of local currencies, markets in Europe, the United States and many much smaller countries easily outperformed Japan's. In terms of the United States currency, the dollar's strength against the yen makes the rankings more dramatic, with Japan falling to 19th among all nations, from 5th a year ago.
The performance of the United States' market was also unexpected. Buoyed by economic growth that was stronger than predicted, and by inflation that was lower than expected in the first three quarters, American equities finished the year ranked 9th in dollar terms, up from 12th a year ago.
 
Recovery From the Downturn
Like European markets, stocks in the United States seemed to shrug off the sharp downturn of Oct. 13, when the Dow Jones industrial average plunged 190 points. But the outlook for the American market in 1990 has been clouded by expectations that the economy will continue to slow and that corporate earnings will be disappointing.
In addition, the strength of the dollar - and now the rise of the West German mark - has had a significant impact on investors' returns from the world's stock markets. The fall of the dollar against the mark and other European currencies at the end of the year sharply enhanced gains from European investments when they are translated back into dollars. But the continued weakness of the British pound and the Japanese yen against the dollar and the mark have eroded what would have been good returns in those markets.
Over all, the gains in the world markets were slower than a year ago, continuing the generally declining growth rate of recent years. Without the United States, the world index grew 9.7 percent in 1989, compared with 25.8 percent in 1988 and 22.8 percent in 1987. And analysts expect the slowing to continue this year.
''I don't expect 1990 to be as good as 1989, for the simple reason that we have had tremendous returns from the stock markets for five years in a row, and you can't expect that to continue forever,'' said Sandor Cseh, senior vice president in charge of international investments at Provident Capital Management Inc. in Philadelphia.
 
Lower Growth in Fund
John Ford, exective vice president of Rowe, Price, Fleming International in London, said he expects the company's international stock fund to show a 15 percent return this year, compared with 24 percent in 1989.
''It's really the innate caution of a fund manager who has had a good year,'' Mr. Ford said. ''You can't expect to see 24 percent every year.''
George Noble, the portfolio manager for the Fidelity Overseas Fund, is even more cautious. He said expectations that interest rates might rise further in Europe and Japan to slow economic growth and fight inflation were not good for equities. ''If we are going to make much money next year we have to have some help from interest rates,'' he said.
Still, these and other analysts think there are plenty of good stocks available to investors, especially if the focus is more on individual stocks than on the overall market of one country. But Mr. Ford and Mr. Noble say Americans still do not take full advantage of the profit potential overseas.
 
Small Markets Show Strength
As a whole, 1989 was a good year for investments in small companies and small stock markets.
Another strong area was the emerging markets, including Mexico, the Philippines and Thailand. Mexico, which was up 79.9 percent in 1989, was helped by the debt-reduction agreement reached with its foreign bankers. The Philippines was doing well until the recent coup attempt, and rose 63 percent in the year. And Thailand, which has been helped by a long period of economic growth in Southeast Asia, was up 103.3 percent.
Some of these markets could continue to be attractive, although many are open to foreign investors only through closed-end mutual funds known as country funds.
Austria was the top performer of the year, according to the Morgan Stanley index, with its market rising by 102.1 percent in dollar terms after a 1.4 percent decline in 1988.
Analysts said much of the rise resulted from a few stocks, including that of Creditanstalt, Austria's largest bank. As in West Germany, much of the gain came from the opening of Eastern Europe and economic change in the Soviet Union. In both, the Austrians play a leading role as middlemen and lenders.
 
Shift From Equities
Japan's relatively weak performance - growth of just 1.5 percent in dollar terms - was a reflection of three factors. One is that equities have become so overvalued in Japan that many investors looked outside the country for more attractive opportunities.
This buying abroad clearly helped the American market earlier this year and is now bolstering the market in West Germany. According to November trade figures for Japan, the American share of Japanese investment abroad fell to 9.8 percent, from 46 percent in October. The West German share of Japanese investments rose to 28 percent, from 1.9 percent.
In addition, Yuichi Kohashi, executive vice president at Daiwa Securities America in New York, said that many Japanese investors switched to small-company stocks in 1989 and that many of these are not included in the indexes used to monitor the world's stock markets.
''One of the major characteristics of the Japanese market is that small companies are doing quite well,'' he said. The shift to these companies, he said, comes as investors focus more on fundamentals, including earnings. In the past, much emphasis was given to interest-sensitive stocks, like well-known companies, and the need for stocks that can be easily traded, providing liquidity.
Also weighing on the market, he said, was the political scandal involving the Recruit Company, which toppled the Government of Noboru Takeshita, and uncertainity about the future of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party.
 
Weakness of the Yen
A third factor was the weakness of the yen against the dollar. In local currency, the Japanese market is up 16.1 percent for the year. But with a 15 percent depreciation in the yen this year, that gain is slashed to 1.5 percent in dollar terms.
West Germany is the focus of most analysts, although some think the current run-up in the market may soon force a correction. The changes in East Germany and Eastern Europe mean more skilled and less expensive labor, new markets and, especially, new investment opportunities. With the Japanese already beginning to move investments from the United States to West Germany, the favorable perception of that market should add to its attractiveness.
Analysts are also favorable on other markets, like that of France, which will be helped some by changes in Eastern Europe and the increasing corporate activity in preparation for the dropping of economic barriers in Europe in 1992.
But some analysts like Mr. Noble tend to concentrate more on individual stocks. These include Compagnie Generale d'Electricite, the French industrial group that is involved in telecommunications, transportation and energy; Erickson, the Swedish telecommunications company, and its subsidary, Setemer, in Italy.
 
Some Buys in Britain
Even in Britain, the market that most analysts urge avoiding for the first half of 1990, there are some recommended buys. Mr. Noble, for example, holds Guinness P.L.C. And Stephen Beinhacker, assistant vice president for international strategy at Shearson Lehman Hutton, is holding his positions in Continental Europe for the first half of the year, but is ready to pick up bargains in Britain in the second half.
In 1989, the British market rose 30.6 percent, ranking seventh in terms of local currencies, with most of the growth in the first quarter. But after the pound's sharp decline against the dollar is factored in, the gain for the American investor was cut to 16.2 percent, a 13th-place ranking.
The top performer of 1988, Belgium, fell to 14th last year, showing how much impact one stock can have. A battle to take over Societe Generale de Belgique, by the Italian financier Carlo de Benedetti, had propelled Belgium to No. 1 in 1988.

GRAPHIC: graphs of how stock markets fared in '89 around the world (Source: Morgan Stanley Capital International); chart of how world markets ranked in dollars and local currency (Source: Morgan Stanley & Co.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (83%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (71%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); RANKINGS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); JAPANESE YEN (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); BRITISH POUND (65%); COMPANY EARNINGS (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



20 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Industry Group Formed to Exploit Technology Developed by Military

BYLINE: By DOUG McINNIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DAYTON, Ohio, Dec. 31

 BODY:
American industry, battered by years of stiff foreign competition, has found a new ally in the technology wars: the multibillion-dollar military research program at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
An industrial consortium is being formed here to turn unclassified military research breakthroughs developed at Wright-Patterson into new commercial products. The consortium is the Ohio Advanced Technology Center.
The center's officials are already in place, with offices in a research park next to the base, just outside Dayton. They will soon hire additional staff and start setting goals for specific projects. Financing for the center has come from several private and public sources. 
 
Big Institutions Attracted
The technology center's potential to speed up the development of advanced commercial products has attracted several major institutions to the center's board. These include the American Telephone and Telegraph Company; Ohio State University; the Mead Corporation, a paper products and data services company based here; the Battelle Memorial Institute, a leading research organization based in Columbus, Ohio, and Cincinnati Milacron Inc., one of the nation's leading machine-tool makers.
The base has long been the Air Force's principal research center. Its nine specialty laboratories do research in areas ranging from advanced materials and new manufacturing techniques to aviation electronics and jet propulsion technology.
Over the years, military research has led to a wide range of civilian advances in everything from cars to medicine. Recent ones that came directly from Wright-Patterson include artificial hip joint implants made from a carbon composite developed for missile nose cones, computer-based information systems and graphite material used in golf clubs and tennis rackets.
But these were more a series of happy accidents than well-planned moves to make tax-financed research pay off in nonmilitary ways.
''That's part of the problem - it's been taking too long,'' said Dr. Vince Russo, director of Wright-Patterson's materials laboratory. He noted that it took 15 years for graphite epoxy to catch on in sports equipment.
 
Secrecy of the Past
Part of the reason is that the base has carried on its innovative work with little publicity, if not in deliberate secrecy. Still, much of its research is unclassified. The problem is transferring these breakthroughs to civilian industries that could use them.
The Air Force base and civilian companies aim to speed the process by using the Advanced Technology Center as home to a military, industrial and university team. ''We must form the best teams we can if we're going to compete in an international marketplace,'' said Dr. Frank Moore, program manager for the new technology center and the retired commander of the aviation electronics laboratory at Wright-Patterson.
''It's not so much that we lack technology,'' he added. ''Where we seem to fail is in moving that technology to the marketplace. You'd be hard pressed to find an American-made microwave oven. We invented it. We just didn't stay competitive.''
 
Nationwide Potential
The largest benefits from the center's work would be aimed at an industrial triangle formed by Dayton, Cincinnati and Columbus. But if the center succeeds, American businesses nationwide will have tapped into one of the secrets that has helped power Japan's economic growth: a marriage of government and industry.
The West Germans and the Japanese ''are light years ahead'' of American companies in tapping the resources of government, said Burnell R. Roberts, chairman of Mead.
Mead Data Central International Inc. is an example of a commercial spinoff from a system developed for military use. Data Central operates the Lexis and Nexis information service, which allows subscribers with computer terminals to see articles that have been published in many newspapers, magazines and legal publications.
Mead developed the service after it bought the Data Corporation in 1968, when Data was a small Wright-Patterson contractor that had developed a computer-based system for information storage and retrieval to help the Air Force keep track of procurement contracts and worldwide inventories of radar equipment.
 
Major New Industries
Mr. Roberts, who serves as chairman of the Technology Center's board, said tax-financed research breakthroughs at Wright-Patterson could help spawn major new industries. ''So much of the technology at Wright-Patterson has never been exposed enough that people can know where it can go,'' he said.
Mr. Roberts's company has done well by the technology it gained: Data Central is now Dayton's fastest-growing employer, with a local workforce expected to reach 2,500 by the end of 1990. Revenues for 1989 are expected to reach $400 million, up from $22.9 million in 1979, according to the company.
At the core of the new potential for a technological bonanza is the Air Force base named for three of the city's most famous sons - the aviation pioneers Wilbur and Orville Wright and John Patterson, the industrial genius who developed modern manufacturing procedures at National Cash Register, now the NCR Corporation.
With 35,000 jobs, the base is the largest single employer in Ohio. Now, it has the potential to provide other benefits as well.
''We want to see the time and money invested in our research flood Ohio industry with new ideas,'' Lieut. Gen. Mike Loh of the Air Force told a state technology commission in October. ''Sadly, that isn't the case right now. There's a dribble going through the system, not a flood as it should.'' General Loh heads the Aeronautical Systems division, which operates Wright-Patterson's laboratories.
 
Requests for Information
The Ohio Advanced Techonology Center is not the first effort to speed the movement of technology into civilian enterprises. As a result of the Federal Technology Innovation Act of 1980, the base has long had an office to help companies seeking Government technological information. There has been no lack of requests. ''The phone rings constantly,'' said Cindy Ingalls, a civilian employee who runs the office. She handles basic industrial questions like how to avoid forming burrs when welding nickel to nickel using a spot welder with a copper tip.
While that program will continue handling those types of requests, the new program will take on major development projects, hoping to spur the creation of new products and industries.
If the center succeeds, United States industry will get some help in the battle with Japan and other foreign competitors. But the shifting industrial landscape in Ohio and other states has changed the definition of just what foreign competition is.
Southern and central Ohio are now dotted with sizable outposts of foreign-owned companies. Most notable are those of the Honda Motor Company. With two car assembly plants and other operations, Honda has more than 9,000 workers, making it one of the state's largest employers.
That raises the question of whether Honda could seek help from the new technology center.
''We really haven't addressed that,'' Mr. Roberts said. ''I would guess they would be able to use it.''
But he added that if a foreign corporation with no American ties applied for help, ''we might look at that a little differently.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Dr. Frank Moore and Dr. Vice Russo (NYT/Ty Greenlees)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MWV (NYSE) (69%); T (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS333511 INDUSTRIAL MOLD MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS324191 PETROLEUM LUBRICATING OIL & GREASE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (69%); NAICS424120 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS322212 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOX MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (69%); SIC2657 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOXES, INCLUDING SANITARY (69%); SIC2653 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOXES (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (96%); 

CITY: DAYTON, OH, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: MI 2009 INC (69%); BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE (69%); MEADWESTVACO CORP (69%); ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY CENTER INC (57%); AT&T INC (56%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); US AIR FORCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OHIO ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY CENTER

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE (OHIO); AIR FORCES; RESEARCH; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ARMED FORCES (93%); AIR FORCES (92%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); AVIONICS (87%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); SPORTS (72%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); TENNIS (72%); MACHINE TOOLS (71%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (64%); 

PERSON: MCINNIS, DOUG MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



21 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE: FINANCIAL NEWSMAKERS OF 1989 - SIX WHO MADE THE HEADLINES IN AMERICA AND ABROAD;
Against Heavy Odds, Treasury Secretary Makes Achievements: Nicholas F. Brady, Treasury Department

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH

 BODY:
Nicholas F. Brady, a diffident, modest, well-born Wall Streeter of whom not much was expected when President Reagan made him Treasury Secretary in November 1988, tackled some of the most difficult problems of the American and world economy in 1989 and, against heavy odds, actually achieved some success.
The third world is still mired in more than $1 trillion of debt, but his plan of financial support to encourage debt reduction has already helped countries like Mexico, Costa Rica and the Philippines.
He shepherded through Congress savings and loan legislation calling for outlays of $159 billion over 10 years to shut down or sell off hundreds of unhealthy savings and loans. The legislation not only came up with the funds but changed the regulatory structure so that savings and loans will have to meet higher capital standards. 
While the earmarked money may not cover the real losses, Mr. Brdy has been credited with birnging order to a situation that had threatened to become a full-scale financial crisis.
Mr. Brady and President Bush are preparing to renew the campaign in 1990 for a lower capital gains tax, as part of what is likely to be an intensified effort to increase savings.
The Treasury chief developed the concept of the Family Savings Account, an idea also designed to increase savings, which the President is expected to feature in his January economic messages to the nation.
Earnings accumulated in the account, which would be available to families with income levels of up to $60,000, would be exempt from taxation if the money is left untouched for 10 years.
Mr. Brady also plans to do something about double taxation of dividents - dividends taxed once as corporate profits and again as income of investors.
The tall, lean, taciturn 59-year-old Treasury chief earned a masters degree in business administration from Harvard after graduation from Yale in 1952. He came to Washington after serving as co-chairman of Dillon, Read & Company, an investment house.
Also on the Brady agenda for 1990 is the matter of financial market reform. The market plunge last Oct. 13 and the collapse in 1987, stirred concerns about market volatility. Mr. Brady has told lawmakers that the Treasury is preparing some proposals to address the issue.

GRAPHIC: photo of Nicholas F. Brady

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); 

COMPANY: DILLON READ & CO INC (64%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); BANKING LAW (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



22 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Census in the Age of Information Grows to Fill a Hunger It Created

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 1

 BODY:
The Federal Census Bureau, conceived 200 years ago as a national adding machine, has in the last decade evolved into something more: the engine of the multimillion-dollar information industry that is battling for the hearts and modems of American business.
''The census has become an integral part of the American economy,'' said Edward J. Spar, president of Market Statistics, a New York-based demographic services firm. ''The 1990 data is going to be used as never before.''
''Everybody uses census data,'' said Joseph Duncan, a vice president and chief economist for Dun & Bradstreet, the information conglomerate. ''The K-mart down the street from you, they're saying, 'I want to know everything about everyone who lives within 15 minutes of my store.' '' 
Not long ago, a New York City orthodontist called the California state data center, which uses census data to answer demographic inquiries. ''He was moving to California,'' said Linda Gage, who runs the Sacramento center. ''He wanted to know where there were a lot of teen-agers in high-income households within 10 miles of the beach between Los Angeles and San Diego.''
The expanding national appetite for data, the growth of a private industry to fill this need and the industry's reliance on census data leave Census Bureau officials with a sense of satisfaction, but one tinged with unease as the 1990 census, the 21st in the country's history, draws near.
Satisfaction, because the widespread commercial use of their product is an affirmation of their technical skill at gathering, sorting, analyzing and packaging information about Americans, at a level of detail that no private concern can match.
Unease, because the more demands that are put on their operation, the more questions may be raised about the bureau's role: Is privacy sufficiently protected? Should the bureau seek a share of the profits that businesses make from repackaging public data? And are the needs of business distracting the Census Bureau's attention from the needs of government agencies that are among its primary clients?
 
Individual Files Protected
Associate Director William P. Butz wonders whether Americans will begin to think that marketers are getting access to individual census files - something the bureau is barred by law from doing and pledges never to do in any event.
''An issue of privacy could arise as private data users combine census data with their own records about individuals,'' Mr. Butz said. He added that, although the bureau's pledges of confidentiality are strictly maintained, the increased ability of marketers to pinpoint households by name and address may lead people to suspect - wrongly - that the census agency is not keeping its word.
In fact, census data is delivered to users only in aggregate form, with each household's data combined with information from at least 2,000 other households. Who Should Reap Rewards? Another question brought up in internal bureau discussions is whether the Census Bureau should reap some of the financial rewards that flow to the private businesses that combine census data with their own sources of information to create increasingly valuable products.
Thus far, the Census Bureau's answer has been a consistent no. ''The census is like a well that people dip water from; we don't know what they do with the water - whether they sprinkle it on the grass or drink it,'' said the bureau's new director, Barbara Bryant. She comes to her job from Market Opinion Research, a Detroit concern whose president until 1988 was George Bush's campaign poll taker, Robert M. Teeter.
''As long as the country is spending the money to collect this data, the more good that can come of it, the more jobs it can create, the better,'' Dr. Bryant said.
But, she added, while the Census Bureau has no plans to ask private concerns to share their revenues, she is exploring the idea of asking them to share some information products with the bureau.
In particular, she said, such a request might be made of concerns that develop computerized maps based on the Census Bureau's new files. The files, created over the past decade in collaboration with the United States Geological Survey, record in a computerized format virtually every street, alley, river and railroad in the country.
 
Potential Feeds On Potential
The Government will mail census forms to the nation's 90 million households on March 23 and hopes to count the returned forms on April 1. Households that do not return the forms will get follow-up queries. This year, for the first time, the census will also try to count the homeless. In the end, the census is expected to count more than 250 million Americans.
Mr. Butz, seeking to alleviate concerns raised by officials at some Federal agencies, said private businesses' use of census data does not make Census Bureau officials less attentive to the Government's needs. Census information is one of the few Government resources that is almost infinitely expandable, he said: the more it is used, the more there is of it to use.
''It's not a zero-sum game,'' he said. ''The potential for creating additional information for additional users is immense. There are enormous quantities of potential information in the numbers. There is tremendous opportunity for producing more information without diminishing anyone else's information.''
And after the 1990 census, the bureau will be providing it in a laser-disk format, hoping to attract new users -small government, public interest groups, small businesses - that felt overwhelmed by the technology of computer tapes, which once needed larger computers to process census data.
The new CD-ROM disks (the acronym stands for Compact Disk - Read Only Memory) can, with the purchase of a CD-ROM disk reader, be used by personal computer operators.
''It means the democratization of the data,'' said Martha Farnsworth Riche, an economist with American Demographics magazine. ''More people than ever before will have access to it.''
 
'It's a Gold Mine'
''Census used to be a resource that was barely, barely tapped,'' Ms. Riche said. ''Now it's a gold mine. On top of that gold mine an entire superstructure of companies has been built.''
Her magazine is an integral part of that superstructure: in the last decade it was transformed from an academically oriented journal to a glossy monthly magazine about marketing, forecasting and computer mapping.
In a year-end supplement, American Demographics listed 100 information concerns as diverse as computer mapping organizations, software developers and ''full service'' firms like Donnelly Marketing Information Services, a Dun & Bradstreet subsidiary; Impact Resources, which the magazine called ''a single-source data base of consumer behavior information,'' and National Demographics and Lifestyles, offering ''individual customized databases for consumer marketers''.
The Information Industry Association, founded 21 years ago with 17 companies, includes some 850 companies today, everything from regional telephone companies to magazine publishers to libraries to the new high-technology businesses ready to tell clients everything they can about Americans' whereabouts and wherewithal.
 
Galaxies of Data Tidbits
The growth of this industry was spawned by census data and now has built up thousands of sources of information, culled from records of home purchases, car purchases, magazine subscriptions, hospital stays and thousands of other transactions. Access to these data bases can cost hundreds of dollars.
Census tapes, by comparison, are far cheaper - about $175 apiece, approximately what it costs to create them. A tape will contain 500,000 to two million bits of information on geography, family size, income and racial background and myriad combinations of that and other data.
Between 1980 and 1989, the Census Bureau filled more than 8,100 orders for individual tapes or batches of tapes.
The tapes, however, represent huge haystacks hiding tiny needles of information - some of it relevant, say, to the cosmetics industry, some of it relevant to the health care industry and other data relevant to city planners or car dealers or politicians. The businesses in the information industry cull information from the tapes, stitch it together with other information and present a customized analysis for a client.
 
Just Answer the Question
''The gap between the end user and the Census Bureau is enormous, and it's growing, because there's so much information out there,'' Mr. Spar said. ''The census is just one of a dozen elements. In the end, the user doesn't care that there is census data in there; he just wants an answer to his question.''
Thus, some businesses make money sorting census data, others make money analyzing already-sorted data and others make money creating computer software that allows their clients to analyze the data for themselves. The demand for these services has grown so dramatically that at least a dozen colleges and universities now offer degrees in demography.
In some ways, in fact, the capabilities of the industry have outstripped those of the census. Large information marketers like Dun & Bradstreet are going to use the 1990 figures ''largely as a base line, to see if their figures are O.K.,'' Ms. Riche said.
But not even the biggest companies can make accurate assessments at the neighborhood level. ''And the competitive nature of business,'' Mr. Spar said, ''is such that if you don't have a good handle on the local area, you're in trouble.''
That handle, he and others said, is something only the census can provide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: MARKET STATISTICS (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CENSUS (97%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); HISTORY (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); INTERNET PRIVACY (70%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



23 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1948 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Dinkins;
Dinkins Sworn In; Stresses Aid to Youth

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Pledging to be ''the Mayor of all the people,'' David Norman Dinkins, a barber's son who built a political triumph, took the oath of office yesterday as the 106th Mayor of New York City in a simple and solemn ceremony on the steps of City Hall.
''I stand before you today as the elected leader of the greatest city of a great nation, to which my ancestors were brought, chained and whipped in the hold of a slave ship,'' said Mr. Dinkins, the first black to head the nation's largest city. ''We have not finished the journey toward liberty and justice, but surely we have come a long way.''
Under broken clouds in the chill air of a new decade, Mr. Dinkins promised he would ''never lead by dividing, by setting some of us against the rest of us or by favoring one group over others'' in a city he calls a ''gorgeous mosaic'' of diversity.
 
'Voices of Hope'
Acknowledging the challenges he faces, and the limited resources at his command, he dedicated his administration to children. ''And the measure of whether I fulfill my mandate will be how we treat those who start out in life during my tenure at City Hall,'' the 62-year-old Mayor told a jubilant crowd that the police estimated at 12,000. 
''No matter how rich and powerful we become, we cannot be satisfied when so many children experience the sunset of opportunity at the very dawn of their existence,'' he said in the 15-minute address. The speech was interrupted by polite applause 11 times, usually when Mr. Dinkins mentioned issues dear to specific groups, including crime, abortion, civil rights and social justice.
''For the children of this city are voices of hope, singing out the sweet songs of the future amidst the discord of daily life,'' he said.
As the new Mayor took office, a new City Charter took effect that makes the most fundamental changes in the city's government since the turn of the century by abolishing the Board of Estimate and redistributing its powers among the City Council and other elected officials. A new City Comptroller, Elizabeth Holtzman, also took office, and Andrew J. Stein took the oath for his second term as City Council President.
Mr. Dinkins, crisp in a blue suit, camel's hair coat and red scarf, was sworn in at 12:24 P.M. by his former law partner, Judge Fritz W. Alexander 2d of the State Court of Appeals. The new Mayor's wife, Joyce, in a black mink coat and bright green dress, held a Dinkins family Bible from 1897.
Because the ceremonies - presided over by Harry Belafonte and including remarks by Archbishop Desmond M. Tutu of South Africa - started more than half an hour late, Mr. Dinkins switched the order a bit and delivered his speech before taking the oath, to meet prearranged television time.
 
Four Former Mayors
Arriving on the platform just before noon, he greeted many of the prominent guests, including all the city's living former mayors, Robert F. Wagner, John V. Lindsay, Abraham D. Beame and Edward I. Koch, who sat for most of the ceremony without an overcoat.
In his speech, Mr. Dinkins's reference to divisiveness seemed to be something of a dig at Mr. Koch, who was often accused of insensitivity to blacks and the poor in his tempestuous 12-year tenure. Just four years after the unraveling of the municipal corruption scandals that marred Mr. Koch's third term, Mr. Dinkins vowed that corruption in government would not be tolerated.
But in impromptu remarks before the address, Mr. Dinkins praised Mr. Koch, saying he ''has achieved so much and meant so much and will continue to be a defining presence in this city.''
In his own brief remarks, Mr. Koch wished Mr. Dinkins ''only the best,'' adding: ''You now are our leader, you are the embodiment of the city of New York. We are in your hands.''
The long day of speeches and singing, politicking and partying began just after midnight in a moment of great tenderness and pride when Mr. Dinkins was officially sworn in at a private ceremony for about 100 people in Judge Alexander's apartment in the Bronx.
Because the City Charter says a new mayor takes office on Jan. 1 but does not specify a time, it has become a tradition to hold a private swearing in just after midnight, so there will be no doubt that the new Mayor has full powers of office.
 
A Toast to the New Year
Surrounded by his family, appointees and friends like the Rev. Jesse Jackson, Representative Charles B. Rangel and Percy E. Sutton, Mr. Dinkins took the oath at 12:10 A.M. as Mrs. Dinkins held a small Bible belonging to their daughter, Donna Dinkins-Hoggard.
After toasting the New Year, Mr. Dinkins swore allegiance to the Constitutions of the United States and of New York State and to the City Charter in an unwavering voice. But when he was done, his face grew flushed, his eyes welled with tears, and he kissed and embraced his family and friends to thunderous applause.
Then he swore in his four deputy mayors, his Corporation Counsel and his new Police Commissioner, Lee P. Brown of Houston, who does not take office until Jan. 22.
After the public inauguration at midday, Mr. Dinkins greeted several thousand supporters at a reception in the Winter Garden at Battery Park City, spoke at the swearing in of Ruth W. Messinger, his successor as Manhattan Borough President, and presided over his first family dinner at Gracie Mansion, the Mayor's official residence overlooking the East River.
The crowd at the inauguration, at least three times as large as those at similar ceremonies over the last two decades, was a testament to the historic nature of Mr. Dinkins's election victory. Black mayors from other major cities - W. Wilson Goode of Philadelphia, Sharpe James of Newark and Marion Barry of Washington -joined virtually the entire Democratic political establishment of New York.
Archbishop Tutu, the Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town, had called Mr. Dinkins to congratulate him on his election, and Mr. Dinkins invited him to the inaugural. Yesterday, Archbishop Tutu praised the new Mayor for his achievement. ''Thank you for your victory,'' he said. ''Thank you for what you are doing for our struggle. We shall overcome.''
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who also spoke at the ceremony, praised Mr. Dinkins as ''an extraordinary combination of strength and gentleness.''
 
'An Open Democracy'
Mr. Dinkins delivered his speech in the level, undramatic style he usually uses when speaking from texts. In it, he offered no specific plans but sounded virtually all the themes of his campaign, pledging to defend a woman's right to choose an abortion, to stand for the security of Israel and freedom in South Africa, and to oppose discrimination based on race, ethnicity, disability, gender or sexual orientation.
''Ours will be a civic forum, an open democracy that hears diverse views and voices before it decides,'' he said. ''A democracy that holds out hope to the hopeless and assuages the fears of the fearful, a democracy that appeals to what is best in us and strives to bring us together.''
He also repeated his campaign vow to be the ''toughest Mayor on crime this city has ever seen'' and ''reaffirm the rule of law, fight back against the pushers and muggers and take back our streets, our subways and our parks.'' And he said he would ''renew the quest for social justice'' in addressing the problems of AIDS, drugs, education and affordable housing.
To those worried that he might overspend to achieve his goals, Mr. Dinkins invoked the fiscal prudence that has increasingly dominated his public remarks as the city faces declining tax revenues, a stagnant economy and looming budget gaps. ''I recognize that we cannot do everything we should, that our finances may get worse before they get better, that for now our dreams are bigger than our budget,'' he said. ''We must assure our long-term fiscal stability. We face difficult times ahead, and we will make the difficult choices. The sacrifices will be shared and shared fairly.''
But for all his composed delivery, yesterday was clearly a day of high emotion for the new Mayor, and it marked the end of a quest that began last Valentine's Day, when Mr. Dinkins, the Manhattan Borough President since 1986, officially announced his candidacy for Mayor.
Before the ceremony, when asked whether he ever thought he would be Mayor, Mr. Dinkins paused and replied, ''I did . . . not in my . . . no!'' He added: ''I'm grateful for my mother. She's gone now. She thought it was a great day when I finished high school. I'm sorry she's not here to see this.'' It was a special day for his supporters. Mr. Rangel took pictures with his own camera from his seat in the front row, and Cicely Tyson, the actress, rushed up to kiss Mr. Dinkins after he was sworn in.
The Mayor's 84-year-old father, William Harvey Dinkins Jr., came from his home in Trenton, where Mr. Dinkins grew up and attended high school before serving in the Marines in World War II and earning a degree in mathematics at Howard University.
A product of the city's regular Democratic organization, he started his political career 25 years ago and worked his way up from district leader to Assemblyman to head of the Board of Elections and City Clerk before winning the borough presidency on his third try.
After a dramatic and decisive defeat of Mr. Koch in the Democratic mayoral primary in September, Mr. Dinkins beat Rudolph W. Giuliani, his Republican-Liberal opponent, after a hard-fought general-election campaign by only 47,080 votes, the smallest margin of victory in a New York mayoral race in more than 80 years.
In the campaign, Mr. Dinkins's handling of his financial affairs became an issue, particularly his transfer to his son of stock in a company controlled by Mr. Sutton that holds a cable television franchise in Queens. Preliminary inquiries into the matter are still under way by Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn and the city's Department of Investigation.
At a news conference after the inauguration, Mr. Dinkins repeated yesterday that he was confident that, in time, the investigators ''will determine that I have done nothing wrong.''
Besides the switch in order, the inaugural ceremony had a couple of other moments of confusion. Just as Archibishop Tutu began to speak, a water balloon hit Councilman Jose Rivera of the Bronx, who was sitting on the platform several rows behind Mr. Dinkins, causing a commotion as police officers tried to determine what had happened. Later, officials said it was unclear where the object had come from, whether it had been thrown from the crowd or dropped from the balcony or the roof of the building.
John Cardinal O'Connor, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of New York, who gave the benediction, arrived to find on his chair a sticker from Act-Up, which stands for the AIDS Coaltion to Unleash Power, a group that stages frequent protests over AIDS policies of the government, churches and other institutions. As the Cardinal spoke, demonstrators held signs that read, ''Just say no to Cardinal O'Connor.''
The police said one protester was arrested and charged with trespassing for trying to climb up on the stage.
Mr. Dinkins is to begin today with an appearance on ''Today'' on NBC-TV shortly after 7 A.M., and then hold a series of meetings at City Hall with his deputies and with Mr. Stein, Ms. Holtzman and the City Council's Democratic majority leader, Peter F. Vallone, whose new title is Council Speaker.
Asked yesterday what he thought about his new office in the northwest corner of City Hall, Mr. Dinkins said he would have to make an adjustment in the big leather chair behind the desk once used by Fiorello H. La Guardia.
''The chair's too low,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Mayor David N. Dinkins, with his wife, Joyce, as he was sworn in yesterday by Judge Fritz W. Alexander 2d. With them were Edward I. Koch and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, partially obscured, with his wife, Mathilda. (NYT/Chester Higgins Jr.) (pg. A1); David Dinkins shortly before swearing-in ceremonies outside City Hall (NYT/Chester Higgins Jr.) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF ESTIMATE (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BLACKS (IN US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CITY CHARTERS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CITY COUNCILS; MAYORS; COMPTROLLERS; CITY COUNCILS CITIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); RELIGION (82%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); CHILDREN (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (64%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); HOLTZMAN, ELIZABETH (COMPTROLLER); STEIN, ANDREW J (CITY COUNCIL PRES); BELAFONTE, HARRY; TUTU, DESMOND M (ARCHBISHOP); JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (94%); DAVID DAVIS (73%); 



24 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East: Bucharest;
NEW RULING GROUP IN RUMANIA TO VIE IN APRIL ELECTIONS

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUCHAREST, Rumania, Jan. 1

 BODY:
A leader of Rumania's provisional Government said today that the ruling group would put forward its own candidates in the free elections promised for April.
It is the clearest indication so far that the leadership formed after the toppling of President Nicolae Ceausescu hopes to continue in power beyond the transition period leading to the elections.
The official, Silviu Brucan, insisted that the ruling group, the Council of National Salvation, which includes many former Communists, had no intention of creating a political party. Nevertheless, Mr. Brucan, a member of the council's 11-member executive board, said in an interview that the council would sponsor candidates, and he suggested that they would do well. 
 
'Two Major Assets'
''We have two major assets,'' he said. ''We led the revolution, and we kept our promise to make material improvements'' in the lives of Rumanians.
With the elections about three months away, and with political traditions here reed-thin, the six new parties formed in recent days, and others that might come along, are at a disadvantage, Mr. Brucan acknowledged.
Some council members have said that holding elections as soon as April would be unfair, and Mr. Brucan said those officials wanted to delay the voting but were pressured by student leaders into accepting an earlier date.
 
'The More the Better'
Mr. Brucan pledged that other political groups would have access to television and perhaps also to Government financing. ''The more political parties, the better,'' said Mr. Brucan, a former Rumanian Ambassador to the United States and a leading theoretician in the governing council.
The news that the council intends to enter the elections, whether it calls itself a political party or not, is likely to disappoint some Rumanians. That is especially true for those who believe that the council has too many old Communists and former Ceausescu associates, even if they are people who parted with the deposed dictator long ago.
In interviews, many Rumanians say the Communist Party must dissolve itself, and this demand has been echoed by party leaders, who have called for a special congress to dismantle the 3.8 million-member party sometime before the elections. In effect, though, the party has already collapsed with President Ceausescu's ouster and Dec. 25 execution.
Although a senior Government official, Corneliu Bogdan, insisted over the weekend that former Communists were a minority in the ruling group, their exact number is difficult to determine. From a nucleus of 39 members, the council has grown to nearly 150. They are a mix of politicians, writers, actors, composers and military men, and getting all of them to agree on candidates committed to common principles is difficult. [Mr. Bogdan died of a stroke in Bucharest on Monday, relatives in Washington said. An obituary appears on page B5.] Labels Are Discounted For now, Government authority is wielded by the 11-member executive board. The central figures are old Communists, including the provisional President, Ion Iliescu, and his Vice President, Dumitru Mazilu.
But Mr. Brucan and others say labels mean little now. ''We will have to give up concepts like socialism, Communism, capitalism and fascism,'' he wrote in a newspaper article published on Sunday. ''As things are now, they do not make any sense, and they have no relation to the social reality.''
The first New Year's Day of the post-Ceausescu era was a quiet one as Rumanians largely celebrated in their houses. Some who ventured forth on this cold gray day paid homage to those killed in the December uprising by lighting candles at improvised shrines, now standard features along Bucharest's main squares.
 
Devining the Death Toll
A clear sense of the nationwide death toll remains elusive. Several Western diplomats said today that they had revised their estimate down to 7,000, a far cry from some reports last week that said the number could reach into the tens of thousands. Mr. Brucan said today that the Government believed that 50,000 was the maximum, and he acknowledged that in examining the toll, ''we find more and more that it is exaggerated.''
In a New Year's message, President Iliescu said the executions of Mr. Ceausescu and his wife, Elena, would be Rumania's last, because the council has abolished the death penalty. That suggests that the Ceausescus' children, who are in custody, will be spared, although they will presumably face trial on charges of corruption and abuse of power during a time when much of the country went cold and hungry.
Mr. Iliescu's remarks on state television were intended to show that democratic change was under way and that the new Government recognized the urgency of setting the crippled economy on course.
 
Boon for Farmers
From now on, he said, private land ownership will be encouraged by permitting farmers to own as much as 1.2 acres of the land that they work. The Government will study the desirability of a five-day work week to replace the present six days, and small farmers will be able to rent agricultural equipment on their own for the first time, he said.
What he has learned, Mr. Iliescu said, is that economic conditions are even worse than was supposed because the old leadership lied about its performance.
For instance, he said, a grain crop estimated by Mr. Ceausescu's Government at 60 million tons turned out to be 16.9 million tons. And Mr. Brucan said the shortage of animal feed presents ''an alarming situation.''
 
Touring the Relics
The biggest possible source of revenue for Rumania's troubled economy is tourism, and officials called a news conference to announce that the country is safe to visit now that Mr. Ceausescu is gone and violence has subsided.
They said they would make tourist attractions of Ceausescu relics like his underground network of tunnels and his unfinished House of the Republic, an enormous palace with thousands of rooms and 400,000 square feet of floor space. Foreign travel agencies have already expressed interest in organizing tours, the new Minister of Tourism, Mihail Lupoiu, said.
''It's a good lesson for all those who want to know what happens when a dictator rules,'' Mr. Lupoiu said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUMANIA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); DEATHS (61%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); STROKES (50%); 

PERSON: BRUCAN, SILVIU; HABERMAN, CLYDE NICOLAE CEAUSESCU (58%); 



25 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Winter Wheat Farmers Fear Second Year's Crop Failure

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ROBBINS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GARDEN PLAIN, Kan., Dec. 27

 BODY:
When Lawrence Weber looked out of his pickup truck over his wheat fields at just the right angle, he could see a delicate fuzz of green bristling up out of the black earth. And what he saw was reason enough for the frown that flashed across his countenance.
Last October that growth would have spawned new hopes, offering the first signal that, with luck and good rains, those newly planted fields could produce a bountiful harvest.
At year's end it is another matter. The sparse growth is the result of a drought that has gripped the nation's most productive winter-wheat states since last summer. And now, after a siege of bitterly cold weather, the spindly tops and shallow roots have brought worries of crop losses for many of the area's farmers for the second year in a row. 
Mr. Weber voiced concern that farmers could lose more than their crops, that the sparse wheat stalks and shallow rooting might cause severe damage to their land from erosion in the harsh blowing season that lies ahead, early next year.
 
Suffering in Families
While they are reluctant to predict a return to the financial crisis that gripped the farm country in the early 1980's, experts say there will be suffering in rural communities and in individual families.
Arlan Suderman, a crop specialist with the Kansas State University Extension Service, put the situation this way: ''The problems are beginning to strike home in our rural communities. Many farmers had operating loans last year that they couldn't repay because of crop failures. Now they are facing the threat of two in a row. Just how bad it will be depends on how much rain we get in the spring, but we're looking at a rising number of distressed farms, and that leads to stress in the homes and a lot of personal and family problems.''
The growers here farm in one of the more productive areas of a five-state region that produces most of the country's hard red winter wheat, the principal grain used for bread. Over the past year they have also been among the hardest hit in a region that suffered losses from weather damage that included drought, winterkill and wind erosion.
 
Fears of New Misfortunes
The results led in 1989 to the poorest crop of winter wheat in 11 years, about 1.5 billion bushels. Winter wheat is planted in early fall, lies dormant through the winter and is harvested in spring and summer.
Early signs have raised fears of a new siege of weather misfortunes. As Peter Leavitt of the Weather Services Corporation, a private consulting service in Bedford, Mass., noted the other day, little rain has fallen since September over the wheat-growing areas of the major bread-wheat states, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, Colorado and Nebraska.
On average in the wheat-growing regions of the five states, according to his calculations, only 1.38 inches of precipitation, 42 percent of the normal amount, has fallen since September. That had left young wheat plants vulnerable to extreme temperatures.
''Ironically,'' Mr. Leavitt said, ''the ones farthest south have been the ones hardest hit.''
He said the reason was that a thin snow cover had helped protect plants in the northern sections, including all of Nebraska and much of Kansas. But the south-central and southwestern third of Kansas, much of eastern Colorado and all of Oklahoma and Texas, lacking protection from the snow, were exposed to the harshest blows of temperature extremes, reaching into double digits below zero as far south as Texas.
 
Reserve Stock Can Be Tapped
The current problems come at a time when world wheat production is expected to fall short of consumption, despite a sharp increase in acreage planted in the United States. The difference will be drawn out of reserve stocks that are already the tightest since the early 1970's.
For farmers, there has been one beneficial effect: wheat prices are running at levels higher than a year ago. Wheat is now about $4.35 a bushel, as against $4.30 a year ago at the Kansas City Board of Trade.
''Wheat is a hardy crop,'' said Mr. Suderman, the Kansas State crop specialist. ''It has the ability to surprise us, but I do believe we'll have some damage. It's hard to tell how widespread it will be, but when extreme cold hits wheat that's severely moisture-stressed, then you've really got a problem.
''The weather has already ruled out a bumper crop, Now, even if we had ideal conditions lasting from now till harvest time next spring, the best we could hope for would be an average crop.''
Here at Garden Plain, Terry Kohler gains insight into conditions through his position as manager of the Garden Plain Farmers Cooperative, which sells fertilizer and other supplies to many of its 1,100 members.
 
'Going to Have Some Damage'
''On Dec. 22 the temperature here dropped to 20 below zero,'' Mr. Kohler said. ''That means soil temperatures got pretty low, too. And that means we are going to have some damage.
''Our farmers are already hurting, and if they don't get a decent crop this year, about a third of them are going to have to get some major refinancing.''
Among those hardest hit by last year's drought was Duane Sanders, who grows wheat and raises livestock a few miles north of Wichita. On land that normally produces about 35 bushels of wheat an acre, he harvested only seven bushels an acre last year, Mr. Sanders said.
After paying off the interest and part of the principal on last year's operating loan, he said, he found his ''net worth going in reverse,'' down $12,000 in a year.
''Now,'' he said, ''we already know we're not going to get a good crop in 1990. Only the spring rain will tell whether we get anything worth harvesting.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7261 FUNERAL SERVICES & CREMATORIES (54%); SIC6553 CEMETERY SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WEATHER SERVICES CORP (60%); KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDWESTERN STATES (US); KANSAS

SUBJECT: GRAIN; WEATHER; DROUGHT DROUGHT (90%); WHEAT FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CROP PRODUCTION (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (88%); WEATHER (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); EROSION (72%); FAMILY (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%); 

PERSON: ROBBINS, WILLIAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 



26 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Role of Nuclear Power Is Disputed Despite Looming Energy Shortage

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 1

 BODY:
As the 1990's begin, the nuclear power industry and its most vocal critics agree that the United States faces a new energy shortage, but they remain at odds over the role that nuclear power should play in averting a crisis.
In a report assessing nuclear power in the last decade, environmental groups contend that the industry has not proven it can stand on its own economically or deal with the problems of safety and waste disposal.
The report, ''A Decade of Decline: The Degeneration of Nuclear Power in the 1980's and the Emergence of Safer Energy Alternatives,'' was made public on Thursday. It was prepared by Ralph Nader's Public Citizen organization on behalf of several dozen environmental and anti-nuclear power groups around the country. 
 
New Fuel Shortage Looms
The makings of an energy shortage in the new decade are not in dispute. Domestic oil production has fallen 13 percent since the Arab oil embargo in 1973, and oil imports have taken up the slack. Moreover, the possibility of global warming, which is caused the burning of fossil fuels and depletes the ozone layer, poses a potential threat to the environment and could force the nation to restrict the use of oil, coal and natural gas.
''The nuclear industry is now seeking to exploit this situation by portraying itself as the solution to the nation's energy and environmental woes,'' the report said. Despite the promises of nuclear power, critics contend, the industry has grown more costly, safety has not improved and the problem of radioactive waste has not been solved.
Responding to the report, proponents of nuclear plants said in interviews that as the cost of imported oil rises and domestic production shrinks, the industry will become more competitive and part of the solution to the energy crisis.
But serious obstacles remain. In the last decade there were no orders for new nuclear reactors. Documents obtained from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Department of Energy show that eight licensed reactors were closed and 60 that had been ordered or were under construction were cancelled.
At the same time the cost of construction for new plants, not accounting for inflation, rose from $1,135 per kilowatt in 1980 to $4,590 in 1989, the report said. The cost of most ''renewable'' sources of energy, like hydroelectric, solar and wind power, declined, and their electric generating capacity grew by 27 percent, producing more power than nuclear plants.
 
New Plants Said to Be Cheaper
But industry officials say that the financial picture is improving and that in some cases nuclear power is cheaper than other sources.
''Of course, the viable option is going to depend upon economics,'' said Richard Slember, vice president of Energy Systems at the Westinghouse Corporation, one of the nation's largest manufacturers of commercial nuclear reactors. The current generation of plants is cheaper, more efficient and much safer than previous designs, Mr. Slember said.
Plants that began operating in the 1980's were expensive because of high interest rates, exorbitant construction costs and new safety requirements after the accident at Three Mile Island plant in Pennsylvania, said Cathy Steel Roche, media director at the United States Council for Energy Awareness, the industry's main trade organization. ''With those costs now under control, our belief is that nuclear power will be economically competitive.''
The major stumbling block to the wider use of nuclear power, the industry contends, is not the plants but the regulatory process that has forced them to sit idle.
''It's going to take some sort of crisis,'' said John Sillin of the Management Analysis Company in Washington, a consulting firm to the nuclear industry. ''The state licensing commissions will only come around when the brownouts continue and get worse.''
But the report said the public is most concerned because it thinks the plants are neither safe nor reliable. Indeed, public support for nuclear power withered after the incidents at Three Mile Island and Chernobyl in the Soviet Union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC CITIZEN (83%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC CITIZEN (ORGN)

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; NUCLEAR WASTES NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); NUCLEAR WASTE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (86%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ELECTRICITY GENERATING CAPACITY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); MINING OUTPUT (73%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (68%); NEW ORDERS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); OZONE DEPLETION (67%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); 

PERSON: NADER, RALPH RALPH NADER (73%); 



27 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: The Editorial Notebook;
Checking Out the 1990's

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS WADE

 BODY:
Programmed dreams. Individual flight platforms. Human hibernation. These are some of the innovations cited by Herman Kahn and Anthony Wiener as likely to occur before the year 2000. Their predictions, offered in 1967, were not at all bad. But even with 10 years to run they veer toward excessive optimism about technology and its blessings. Given the tenor of the 60's, that's not surprising. 
Just as historians interpret the past by the present, analysts of the future usually project some present trend. Their forecasts would always be right - except for the unforeseen factor by which the trend is shattered. Hence the maxim that prediction is very difficult, especially with regard to the future.
If the 1960's produced technological optimists, the 1970's bred pessimists, particularly in the Club of Rome's report, ''Limits to Growth.'' Population growth, industrialization, rising pollution and dwindling resources were interwoven trends, the club's computer model warned, that would lead to Malthusian collapse within a century unless the trends were altered. The club was right to tell industrial countries they had to pollute less, but it underestimated the power of technology to raise the limits to growth, and the vast flexibility of economic systems to respond to shortages with new sources of supply.
Forecasts of oil crises and other shortages, The Economist bravely remarked in the dark days of 1974, always result 5 to 10 years later in vast surpluses of the commodity predicted to be scarce. Provided that all pundits and politicians believe the forecast, governments and producers ''are triggered by that commentary into starting the overproduction cycle at precisely the same time.'' Sure enough, the world soon swam in oil.
In the 1980's, when Americans were fretting over their stressed economy and the burden of the Reagan military buildup, along came another tome in tune with the zeit-geist, Paul Kennedy's ''The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers.'' Mr. Kennedy argued that great empires had slid into decay when military spending exceeded their economic base; he said the U.S. was headed the way of Imperial Spain.
But his yardstick of excess - 10 percent of G.N.P. on military spending, a measure buried in a footnote - was never even approached during the Reagan years. Still, his method, applied more evenly, might have predicted the sudden economic retrenchment in the Soviet Union, which spends at least 14 percent of G.N.P. on defense.
This decade will doubtless produce a crop of predictions to match its preoccupations. Computer models will predict imminent or not so imminent warming of the global climate. Economists will warn of global boom or gloom, recession and depression. Japanologists will warn of the impending ascendancy or collapse of Japan. There will be a little truth, we predict, in all these predictions. But also a large dollop of error.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (70%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETIES; FORECASTS; EDITORIALS MILLENNIUM (90%); TRENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); HISTORY (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (67%); 



28 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Reason and Law Reject Our Panama Invasion;
'Gringo Imperialism'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega never threatened the Panama Canal; the United States always had sufficient force on hand to protect United States citizens short of all-out war. General Noriega was Panama's problem, not ours. 
Our President made the self-serving decision to decapitate the Panamanian Government, but it is the Panamanians who will pay the price in destruction of lives and property, civil disorder in cities suddenly without police and other essential services, a smashed and looted economy, and the makings of a classic and extended guerrilla-induced civil war.
Our true national interests in Pan-American stability and prosperity will once again be thwarted by legitimate and unified Latin hatred for ''gringo imperialism.'' As our ideals triumph over Soviet arms in Central Europe, our arms make a mockery of our ideals in Central America.
In the names of the millions of dead and dispossessed in Vietnam and Cambodia, El Salvador and now Panama, when are we finally going to be true to our ideals of human rights and self-determination, and stop ''saving'' oppressed people by destroying them?
 
WILLIAM D. SEARLE
Scottsdale, Ariz., Dec. 23, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%); 

COUNTRY: PANAMA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); VIET NAM (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MILITARY ACTION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: SEARLE, WILLIAM D MANUEL ANTONIO NORIEGA (79%); 



29 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
The New 'Sooners'

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker

 BODY:
Seers and prognosticators of all varieties are taking loose advantage of the calendar to proclaim that a ''new decade'' is ushering in a ''new world'' that will follow upon the deflation of Communist pretensions and the end of the Soviet empire.
I decline to join in these hosannas on two grounds, the first minor and personal. To me, the ''new decade'' will not begin - any more than some new decade is born every new year -until Jan. 1, 1991: The Decade of the Nineties. That decade will begin not with a zero (1990) but with a 1 (1991) and continue not through 1999 but through its 10th year (2000). 
The new ''sooners'' who defy this arithmetical logic also run ahead of themselves in proclaiming a ''new world.'' We face, in fact, a changed and not a new world; and in some ways, it's more nearly an old world predating the cold war that has come to an end.
The German problem is certainly not new, though it now arises in a different context. The conflicts of Eastern Europe, once the confining cloak of Communist rule has been thrown off, may well be reawakened in all their ancient malignities. Mikhail Gorbachev's struggle with the dissident republics of his forcefully built empire is a magnification of a problem that has plagued the U.S.S.R. almost from its inception. And, as has always been the case, even when cold war hostilities obscured it, the nations' economies and trading positions will be the surest determinants of their power.
Admittedly, in world affairs, there's not much difference in ''changed'' and ''new,'' except when the latter connotes something never before seen - such as men walking on the moon. There are few such developments. If, however, ''new'' is taken to mean something different from what was perceived a year or 10 years or a quarter-century ago, then at least two such ''new'' developments strike me as note-worthy.
One of these is the removal of the threat - if there ever was one - of the Soviet invasion of Western Europe. The West's perception of such a threat, since the late 40's, has been a primary - perhaps the primary -force in Western policy. It has been responsible, among other things, for NATO and the billions of dollars U.S. taxpayers have poured into the defense of Western Europe, every year for nearly a half-century.
The idea of a war in Europe has shaped the training of U.S. military forces, to their detriment in Vietnam and even, some critics say, in the recent invasion of Panama. Deterring the Soviet Union from such an invasion has been an important rationale for the U.S. nuclear arsenal.
If the Soviets have relinquished their control in East Germany, Poland and the rest of Eastern Europe, however, it can hardly be any longer imagined that they plan to lunge across Germany and France to the English Channel. Some of us have argued that at least since Stalin's day there was no realistic likelihood of such an attempt; one reason was the likely unreliability of Warsaw Pact forces, which now has been demonstrated. Thus, the exposure of the ''Soviet threat to Western Europe'' as a paper tiger, if that exposure is accepted, liberates the West from a powerful and prevailing policy imperative.
It follows, also, from the acquiescence of Moscow in the removal of Communist control in Eastern Europe that the Soviets are not eager -if they ever were - to sustain a satellite nation half a world away in Central America, much less to build it into a military threat to the United States or the Western Hemisphere. Yet, it was that ultimate threat that the Reagan Administration fell back upon to justify its recruiting, arming, financing and control of the so-called contras as a force with which to overthrow the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua.
Now, after Mr. Gorbachev's retreat from Eastern Europe, it would take a highly charged imagination indeed to suppose that he intends to sustain a major Soviet outpost and military base in Central America. President Bush certainly can be under no such illusion.
Washington has made it clear that it will not permit Nicaragua to molest its neighbors. Why not draw the lesson of Eastern Europe, then, and leave the Sandinistas to the Nicaraguan people? Or would that be too ''new'' a world for a U.S. still bent, as in Panama, and as always, on dominating its so-called ''backyard''?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); VIET NAM (79%); GERMANY (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); DEFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (67%); 



30 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: New Decade, New World, New Strategy

BYLINE: By David Boren; David Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma, is chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Americans well understand what the historic changes in the Soviet bloc are doing to the Soviet Union's influence in the world. But do we understand the impact of this on America's influence? Unless we are prepared to develop and implement a new American strategy in international politics, we could well see our own influence decline in parallel with the Soviet Union's.
The U.S., which has relied with minor adjustments in the past 45 years upon the foreign policy concepts and institutions put in place by the Truman Administration, must be prepared to embrace a new vision of its role in the world in the 1990's.
We must recognize that, as our allies become less concerned about the extreme Soviet military threat, they will feel less need for the shield of American military protection and become less willing to follow our lead in the international arena. 
Economically, the allies no longer need the U.S. the way they did in 1950, when we had two-thirds of the world's assets and nine of the 10 largest banks in the world. Today, we have none of the 10 largest banks. Our share of world assets is now half of what it was in 1950, and by the year 2000 our per capita income is projected to fall significantly short of Japan's and that of several Western European nations.
Lastly, the need to gain access to the U.S. market, which in the past has induced friendly actions on the part of other nations, will no longer be more important than access to European or Japanese markets.
The fact that we now face new and difficult challenges should in no way blunt our joy or enthusiasm for the changes taking place. Nevertheless, the challenges offer us many new opportunities. These must be seized quickly, for they may not come again.
First, we have an opportunity to rebuild our own economy. In ''The Rise and Fall of Great Powers,'' Prof. Paul Kennedy warned that the U.S. faced possible economic decline because of what he called ''imperial overstretch.'' He defined this as the attempt to meet the same military and international obligations as we were meeting at the close of World War II with a much smaller proportion of the world's economic assets. We now have a chance to avoid that scenario.
Of course, we cannot and must not unilaterally disarm in the face of short-term uncertainties about the course of Soviet behavior. It is likely, however, that we will be able to move prudently toward significant reductions in military spending.
These savings can and must be used intelligently to reduce budget deficits at home, provide tax incentives for increased savings and investment, rebuild the decaying infrastructure, improve education and develop human resources. To be strong abroad, we must concentrate on a new domestic agenda. We cannot be a world leader if we allow an underclass to develop at home, plagued with the waste of human talent that comes from school drop-out rates that are tragically high and explosive increases in drug addiction.
Second, we should view the improved prospects for economic development in Eastern Europe and other parts of the world as more than an opportunity to provide humanitarian assistance. We should also see them as a chance to regain a portion of our lost share of world markets.
Accordingly, a large share of future aid should be granted in the form of ''Buy American'' credits, especially to encourage consumption of the basic capital goods that lead to long-term economic relationships. Granting such credits on a massive scale is in our national interest. West Germany and Japan are already taking that approach.
Third, we should increase dramatically student exchange programs at the undergraduate college level with the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and key nations in Latin America. This action would help build lasting bonds of friendship and make it more difficult to reverse recent advances toward freedom. It is no coincidence, for example, that those who have experienced American values as exchange students are in the forefront of the reform movement in China. Finally, we must improve the ability of Americans to deal with the new international environment. The study of foreign languages and international studies in schools and universities must be markedly increased. The Peace Corps should be increased tenfold in the next decade, both to raise the international sensitivities of the next generation and to build strong ties with nations that we have neglected because of our past focus on large bloc and superpower relationships.
America can hardly be said to be in decline when hundreds of millions of people around the world take great risks to embrace our ideals. The words and ideas of Thomas Jefferson are on the lips of people from Managua to Prague, and the raising of the Statue of Liberty in Tiananmen Square symbolizes that the 20th century has been the ''American century.''
What we do in the last decade of this century will largely determine our role in the next. We must never forget that those who mill around at the crossroads of history do so at their own peril.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NINETEEN HUNDRED NINETIES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: BOREN, DAVID L (SEN) DAN BOREN (56%); 



31 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Open Housing Is Mired in Lawsuits Again

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY

 BODY:
After 18 years of litigation and two landmark court rulings, New Jersey's Mount Laurel open-housing doctrine is embroiled in lawsuits again, this time over a law that allows suburbs to transfer their affordable-housing obligations to cities.
Gov. Thomas H. Kean and the State Legislature, staunch opponents of the State Supreme Court's Mount Laurel rulings, which force suburbs to provide housing for all income classes, consider the transfer system ideal for the revival of inner cities. But so far the system has produced more court fights than housing. There are three battlefields. In one, the Department of Public Advocate, a watchdog agency, has argued in lawsuits that some of the state's approved housing switches perpetuate the exclusionary zoning condemned by the state's high court in 1975 and 1983. 
In another, the Morris County suburb of Parsippany-Troy Hills backed out of a $6.6 million deal with Newark for 294 new and rehabilitated units after negotiating a $5.1 million deal with Elizabeth for the same number of houses. Critics of the transfer system say that deal is the worst example of cities fighting one another for money from the suburbs.
In the third phase of fighting, lawsuits filed by developers have delayed the plan of Middletown in Monmouth County to give five aging coastal cities a total of $9 million to upgrade heating, plumbing, and electrical systems in 500 substandard houses. The developers are seeking to block the plan because, under the Mount Laurel rulings, they could receive suburban zoning variances that would allow them to build projects that include 500 homes for the poor and 2,000 for middle- and upper-income buyers.
Other developers are seeking to have the high court overturn some municipal requirements that force them to finance the housing transfers.
 
Transfers Bitterly Fought
The transfer system is perhaps the most controversial part of the state's Fair Housing Act of 1985, which was prompted by the court's rulings in 1975 and 1983. The law allows suburbs to build less low-income housing in their communities by shifting half of their state mandated housing to depressed areas in cities, along with some construction money. The State Supreme Court upheld the housing law and the transfer system in 1986.
Critics say the transfers - called regional contribution agreements - subvert the spirit of the Mount Laurel doctrine and pit cities against one another in bidding wars for suburban housing money. Newark housing officials say that if they lose in their feud with Elizabeth and Parsippany-Troy Hills, seven housing developments in Newark may be lost.
Newark officials have urged the state's Council on Affordable Housing, which administers the Fair Housing Act, to uphold the agreement with Parsippany. The Attorney General is reviewing the case.
''It's an untenable situation,'' said Douglas V. Opalski, the housing council's executive director.
Since 1988 the housing council has approved 21 transfer programs that shift obligations for about 2,000 houses to inner cities, along with $40.2 million for construction. Nineteen more plans for 1,330 units and about $27 million are awaiting approval, Mr. Opalski said.
 
Some Projects Slowed
The challenges by the public advocate and the other legal fights have slowed financing and construction for some Mount Laurel projects, Mr. Opalski said.
''Sending towns are trying to protect their cash flows until the legal issues are resolved,'' he said.
Beyond the statehouse, the transfer system has won little support among housing advocates since it was created four years ago.
''Not very many people feel they make any real sense philosophically or practically,'' said Alan Mallach, an expert on the Mount Laurel doctrine. ''They were a bone thrown to the suburbs to make the whole Mount Laurel process more palatable. There is so little money available for urban housing, and the need is so great.''
John Payne, president of the Alliance for Affordable Housing, a coalition of housing advocates, said inner-city housing created with suburban money carried the risk of future gentrification. He said the Fair Housing Act restricted resale mark-ups of those projects for only six to 10 years, as opposed to the 20 years of price controls on the 6,800 Mount Laurel homes estimated to have been built in the suburbs since 1985.
 
Great Needs in Cities
''In theory, there's no reason why the controls shouldn't be perpetual,'' Mr. Payne said.
He also said the transfer system would have little impact on the urban housing shortage.
''You've got a need for hundreds of thousands of units,'' he said. ''This is a chance for some money for the cities, so I'd be hard-pressed to say it's categorically bad.''
Eight lawsuits filed in recent months by the public advocate deal with only five of the transfer programs approved so far. Those suits question whether exclusionary zoning has been eradicated, as ordered in the Mount Laurel rulings.
Steven Eisdorfer, the assistant deputy public advocate who is pressing the lawsuits, contends that the council's regulations for approving transfer programs do not allow analysis of the exclusionary zoning question.
He said that in some instances, the transfers ''have the effect of reinforcing racial stratification.''
''The council has to look if there's a perpetuation of stratification,'' Mr. Esidorfer said. ''What's the racial impact on the receiving city? What's the opportunity for blacks and Hispanics to move out?''
 
Legal Standards Sought
Mr. Eisdorfer noted that the 1986 court ruling that upheld the Fair Housing Act said the council's role in putting the act into practice remained an open question.
''We're hoping we'll get clear definitions of what the legal standards are the council has to apply,'' he said.
Mr. Opalski, the council's executive director, said its rulings had been ''well in keeping with legislative intent.''
The housing act, he said, extolls the transfers for revitalizing inner-city housing. Yet, he said, of the 13,723 Mount Laurel homes that the council has approved thus far, all but about 2,000 will be built in the suburbs. Under council rules, half of those houses planned for suburban areas must be set aside for low- and moderate-income people who do not work or already live in the suburb.
''The council has made every effort for free mobility of urban residents,'' Mr. Opalski said. While inner-city housing sponsors say the transfer programs do not even begin to meet total urban housing needs, they have mixed views about them philosophically.
 
The Problem of Moving People
''I definitely have a squabble because they don't redistribute low- and moderate-income people out of urban areas,'' said Hazel Samuels, director of housing rehabilitation in Asbury Park. But as long as suburban money is available, she said, ''I'm certainly willing to put it to Asbury Park's benefit to upgrade the life styles of our needy residents.''
In Newark, Msgr. William Linder, head of a nonprofit group that has turned a long-vacant building into 31 low-income rental units with the help of $465,000 from the suburb of Denville, frowns on moving low-income people to affluent suburbs.
''Normally you don't find inner-city people jumping up and going to Morris County,'' Monsignor Linder said. ''There's fears. They don't know people there. And their jobs and the transportation systems are in the city.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; MOUNT LAUREL (NJ)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; SUBURBS; INCOME; LAW AND LEGISLATION LITIGATION (94%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ZONING (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT; KEAN, THOMAS H (GOV) ROBERT W KEAN JR (73%); 



32 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: MAYOR DINKINS: A PLEDGE TO ALL THE PEOPLE;
In New Haven And Yonkers, 2 New Leaders

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
The first black mayor of New Haven and a Yonkers official who came to represent defiance of court-ordered housing were sworn in as chief executives of their cities yesterday.
The mayors, John C. Daniels, a former Connecticut State Senator, and Henry Spallone, one of two Yonkers city councilmen who refused to change their votes against a federally court-ordered housing desegregation plan, both assumed office yesterday afternoon.
At Yale University's Woolsey Hall, more than 1,000 people, including Gov. William A. O'Neill of Connecticut, heard Mr. Daniels repeat his campaign theme, the politics of inclusion. 
''We must move, and I will move us, to a point at which the maximum number of citizens are involved in our major decisions,'' he said. ''The decisons we now face are too important and have too many ramifications on all areas of our city life and future to permit anything less.''
 
Concentrating on Poverty
The problems facing New Haven include a decline in Federal aid, a shrinking tax base, poverty, AIDS, homelessness and a weakening of public school systems.
In an interview last week, Mr. Daniels, 53 years old, said he plans to focus on poverty in the city of 127,000. New Haven is the seventh poorest city in the nation among cities its size. The new Mayor will face a budget deficit of at least $3 million this year, along with an estimated deficit of about $3.5 million from the 1988-89 fiscal year.
In Yonkers, about 700 people attended Mayor Spallone's inauguration at the city's Polish Center. In his inaugural speech, Mr. Spallone, 63, said, ''We will abide by the decisions'' of the United States Supreme Court on the housing plan that attracted national attention to the city two years ago.
''We had our fight, we'll get our decision and we'll join together and go forward,'' he said.
 
Appealed to the Supreme Court
In 1987, the Yonkers City Council refused to reverse its rejection of a consent decree calling for the construction of 200 low-income housing apartments.
Judge Leonard B. Sand of Federal District Court in Manhattan cited the Council for contempt and imposed daily fines against the city. After two weeks, with the fines approaching $1 million, two of the Council dissenters, but not Mr. Spallone, changed their votes and the low-income housing plan passed.
The contempt citation has been appealed to the United States Supreme Court.
Mr. Spallone won the mayoralty by a narrow margin over the incumbent, Nicholas C. Wasicsko, after a campaign in which Mr. Wasicsko argued for compliance with the court-ordered housing plan and Mr. Spallone argued against it. Now Mr. Spallone may soon have to decide the city's role in the construction phase of the plan.
In an interview yesterday, the new Mayor summarized his inaugural speech by saying: ''We're going to talk about support services at the family level for minorities and the poor. We will try and streamline our economic development and become competitive with New Jersey and New York City. We're going to be taking a very modern appoach, bringing Yonkers into the 21st century.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); YALE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW HAVEN (CONN); YONKERS (NY)

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS MAYORS (91%); CITIES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); APPEALS (88%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); POLITICS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS; SPALLONE, HENRY (MAYOR); DANIELS, JOHN C (MAYOR) HENRY SPALLONE (93%); JOHN C DANIELS (69%); NICHOLAS C WASICSKO (61%); 



33 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: MAYOR DINKINS: A PLEDGE TO ALL THE PEOPLE;
Text of Dinkins Speech: 'We Are All Foot Soldiers on the March to Freedom'

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of Mayor David N. Dinkins's inaugural address yesterday, as recorded by The New York Times.
Today we mark more than a transfer of power. Today we travel another mile on freedom's road.
It is a giant step for us. But it is only one of the many now being taken around the world.
So we gather here in the fresh chill of a new year to begin a new administration, to enter a new decade and to welcome a new birth of liberty, which has steadily been expanding in our own land and which has suddenly exploded in so many nations that once seemed so permanently gripped in an iron tyranny. 
Who thought or predicted that in 1989, or even in this century, or even in our lifetime, we could hear freedom ring from Berlin to Bucharest, from Prague to Budapest, and all the way to the walls of the Kremlin itself?
 
'Our Most Powerful Weapon'
Human rights is the most powerful idea in human history. And now we know - and yes, we don't just hope, we know - that some day soon the bells of freedom will also ring in Tiananmen Square and in Soweto.
We are all foot soldiers on the march to freedom, here and everywhere. We all belong to the America that Lincoln called ''the last, best hope of earth.''
In advancing that hope, our most powerful weapon is example. And this year, this city has given powerful proof of the proposition that all of us are created equal.
I stand here before you today as the elected leader of the greatest city of a great nation, to which my ancestors were brought, chained and whipped in the hold of a slave ship.
We have not finished the journey toward liberty and justice. But surely we have come a long way.
This day is not a tribute to me; it is a tribute to you, the people of New York.
 
Government as 'Civic Forum'
And the government we inaugurate here will belong to you, not to any elite or any narrow interest. Ours will be a civic forum, an open democracy that hears diverse views and voices before it decides, a democracy that holds out hope for the hopeless and assuages the fears of the fearful, a democracy that appeals to what is best in us and strives to bring us together.
I see New York as a gorgeous mosaic of race and religious faith, of national origin and sexual orientation, of individuals whose families arrived yesterday and generations ago, coming through Ellis Island or Kennedy Airport or on buses bound for the Port Authority.
In that spirit, I offer this fundamental pledge: I intend to be the mayor of all the people of New York.
This administration will never lead by dividing, by setting some of us against the rest of us, or by favoring one group over others.
 
To Stabilize Neighborhoods
This administration will redefine the relationship between City Hall and our local neighborhoods and communities. From City Island to Staten Island, from East Harlem to East New York, we will empower people and we will respect the need for neighborhood stabilization. We will encourage local business development.
And we will emphasize community-based efforts to provide prenatal care, lead screening, child care, after-school programs and centers of culture and companionship for seniors. Again and again, we will tend to the grass roots, to nurture the initiatives that will become the new ideas of New York's future.
This administration will seek an inclusive prosperity, not one that leaves too many lost amidst the wealth and grandeur that surrounds us. We will join with business and labor to build the economy of the 21st century. And we will ask them to join with us to prepare our people to work in it, to earn their own way and to move ahead.
This administration will renew the quest for social justice, whether the issue is education or affordable housing, the environment, health care or consumer rights, the shame of homelessness or the pain of AIDS. We will speak out against national policies that offer cold indifference instead of compassion.
 
'Sacrifices Will Be Shared'
And we will set our priorities to strengthen the weak, to help those who have been hurt and to keep the middle class living in New York City.
I recognize that we cannot do everything we should, that our finances may get worse before they get better, that for now our dreams are bigger than our budget. We must assure a long-term fiscal stability. We face difficult times ahead. And we will make the difficult choices. The sacrifices will be shared, and shared fairly.
As a city, we cannot live beyond our means. And, however, we will never be mean spirited, and we must never lose sight of our dreams.
We must never forget the moral imperatives that count far more than money.
We must demand the equality of women, and defend a woman's right to choose.
We must stand for, and speak for, justice around the world, including Israel's right to exist in safety and security and a free South Africa, rid of the evil of apartheid.
 
Taking Back the Streets
We must oppose discrimination in any form against anyone, African-American or Asian, Latino, persons with disabilities and veterans, lesbians and gays.
In dealing with AIDS, we must seek to cure the disease, and not to curse the afflicted.
Most of all, we must reaffirm the rule of law and fight back against the pushers and muggers and take back our streets and subways and our parks. And we must do this by night, as well as by day.
Let me say what I said so often during the campaign. I intend to be the toughest mayor on crime this city has ever seen.
And I challenge our citizens to enlist in that cause, to work with the police and to depose the drug dealers from their places of power, to arrest them and convict them and send them to prison. The enemy is not just overseas in Panama or Colombia. In too many neighborhoods, the enemy is across the street, peddling poison to our kids.
 
Against Legalizing Drugs
The answer is not to legalize drugs, but to enforce the laws against them.
The answer is not to explain or excuse crime, but to insist that there is no such thing as just stealing from a store or just snatching a purse. We must demand discipline and respect for the law and for each other from all who share this city.
Lawlessness is as unacceptable inside the government of New York as it is on the sidewalks of New York. Official corruption is nothing less than another form of common theft. And it will not be tolerated in this administration.
I believe that freedom from crime is a basic civil right of all our people, as fundamental as the franchise and fair housing.
 
Responsiblity for Family
So here today, in my first act as Mayor, I invite each of you to enter office with me, by joining a community anti-crime group, by helping a public school provide drug education or, if you're a parent, by insisting upon a new ethic of individual accountability and responsibility for your children and your family.
I believe that individuals can make a difference. But I also believe that there are great differences only government can make. Our city budget is complex. Our programs are numbered in the hundreds, our public employees in the hundreds of thousands. Yet our purpose is simple and enduring, to improve the standard of life for each and every citizen.
And we must start with the most vulnerable and the most precious of all our people, our children.
To that end, I hereby dedicate the Dinkins administration to the children of New York. And the measure of whether I fulfill my mandate will be how we treat those who start out in life during my tenure at City Hall.
As we join together here in this pageant of progress and democracy, there is, this morning, somewhere in this city, a child born addicted to crack, a child suffering from AIDS, a child beaten down by the deprivation of poverty, a child abandoned, a child forgotten, a child whose dream has already been denied.
No matter how rich and powerful we become, we cannot be satisfied when so many children experience the sunset of opportunity at the very dawn of their existence.
For the children of this city are voices of hope, singing out the sweet songs of the future amidst the discord of daily life.
They sing in Spanish and English, Russian and Italian, Korean and Creole, all the dozens of languages we speak in our town.
The spirit of their youth says to each of us follow your hopes and not your fears.
And to them - and to each of you - I make this promise, the same one I made when I entered the United States Marine Corps: Semper fidelis. Always faithful. Thank you. God bless you.
Keep the faith.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID N DINKINS (61%); 



34 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 3, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: THE DOCTOR'S WORLD;
In Health Care, a Question of Quality: Cost-Control Efforts Raise Concerns

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, M.D.

 BODY:
HAVE Government measures to control health care costs reduced the quality of care and increased death rates among the elderly?
Although there is no definitive answer yet, recent small studies have raised troubling questions that demand scrutiny, several health care experts say.
One of the latest studies tracked the death rates of elderly residents of Hennepin County, Minn., which includes Minneapolis, from 1970 to 1986. The age-adjusted annual rate declined steadily for years, but it leveled off after 1983, when Federal cost-containment efforts began in earnest and the average length of hospital stays started to decline. 
Dr. Nicole Lurie, an author of the study, said the results prompted her team to initiate further studies because ''we need to learn if the problem is cause for alarm.''
The cost-control measures are aimed at reducing the number of admissions to hospitals and shortening the length of stay for those covered by Medicare and Medicaid health insurance programs. Medicare covers the elderly and Medicaid the indigent.
Proponents note that it is often less expensive to treat people on an out-patient basis, rather than in a hospital. And they say that costs can be controlled without sacrificing quality. As an incentive to control costs, Medicare now reimburses hospitals a fixed amount for specific categories; previously, the payments were simply based on what the hospital charged. Researchers say that it is extremely difficult to assess whether cost-containment efforts are directly affecting the quality of care because so many variables are involved. Moreover, they note, the censuses that provide the raw material for study are conducted only once a decade, and publication of the nation's death statistics lags by several years.
In addition, the researchers said adverse effects may not show up in national surveys because of variations in the way states and cities provide health care. Adverse affects may also hit certain groups, like the poor or chronically ill, yet not be apparent in broader studies.
Thus studies limited to certain areas and groups may bring the problem into sharper focus. For that reason, the Minneapolis study, which was published in the November issue of the American Journal of Public Health, has stirred interest among health economists.
The study determined death rates by dividing the population by the number of deaths in a year. The rate is adjusted to account for age so that when two groups are compared, the rate for the group that includes more elderly people is not unfairly skewed.
In Hennepin County, the death rates were significantly above the projections for 1984 through 1987, Dr. Lurie's team said. The projections were based on the steady decrease from 1970 to 1982.
The study also reinforced concerns that the early discharge of elderly patients from hospitals to nursing homes may increase death rates. The researchers found that death rates for nursing home residents increased from 1982 to 1986.
The length of hospital stays for elderly people dropped by more than half from 1982 to 1986, the latest figures available, Dr. Lurie said. ''Our study raises warning flags that the same phenomenom may be occurring unrecognized elsewhere,'' Dr. Lurie said in an interview. ''When you see as drastic an increase in death rates as we have seen in Minneapolis, you need to be deeply concerned.''
She said her team from the Hennepin County Medical Center and Minnesota Health Department is undertaking further studies to determine to what degree Federal and local regulations contributed to the change.
The local measures included a moratorium on additional nursing home beds, screening of nursing home applicants before admission, and a rapid growth in enrollment by Medicare beneficiaries in health maintenance organizations. H.M.O. enrollees pay a fixed amount for a specified range of care, if needed.
Because Dr. Lurie's study was designed to evaluate overall health statistics and not individual records, she said her team could not determine whether the quality of care might have contributed to the deaths. The team is now reviewing medical records of the nursing home patients.
The team is also studying whether more terminally ill patients in Minneapolis were transferred to nursing homes just before death under the new regulations. Such a shift might not reflect quality of care issues; rather, it may signal more efficient health care delivery.
But Dr. Lurie said, ''If hospitals are discharging sick patients who are not terminally ill to nursing homes that do not have the staff or equipment to care for them properly, then we have a serious problem.'' In earlier studies, Dr. Mark A. Sager and a team at the University of Wisconsin found that the proportion of deaths occurring in nursing homes increased significantly after the regulatory changes, while there were fewer deaths in hospitals. Because nursing homes seem to have assumed a greater burden in tending to sicker people, Dr. Sager said it is critical to learn whether the homes provide enough nursing and physician care.
Dr. Sager and other experts suggested that the Minneapolis findings may reflect an unusual confluence of Government regulations and local systems of health care delivery. A relatively large number of Minneapolis residents, including the elderly, receive care through H.M.O.'s. In emphasizing preventive medicine and cost containment, H.M.O.'s often provide incentives to staff members to keep patients out of a hospital.
If the findings are attributable to this combination of factors, ''the study has significant national policy implications,'' Dr. Sager said. ''The question is: how hard should Medicare push to enroll everyone in Medicare H.M.O.'s? Maybe they should not push very hard.''
Earlier studies have found conflicting evidence about the impact of government regulations.
In 1988, Dr. Stephen Shortell and Dr. Edward F. X. Hughes of Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., reported that the death rate was up to 10 percent higher in hospitals in states that stringently regulate care than in hospitals elsewhere.
But Dr. Gary Gaumer and colleagues at Abt Associates Inc. in Cambridge, Mass., used a different statistical method and reported in July that they had found no indication that cost-saving efforts in heavily regulated states were directly linked to death rates.
Nevertheless, the team found indications that the actual declines in death rates ''were not as large as those that would have occurred in the absence of'' government regulations.
There is much evidence that benefit programs can improve health care. In one study, Dr. Jack Hadley, co-director of the Center for Health Policy Studies at Georgetown University, reported in 1988 that the more Medicare spent for each beneficiary, the lower the death rates. The results, Dr. Hadley said, ''suggest that cost containment is not a costless policy.''

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing the average annual days in the hospital for Medicaid recipients in Hennepin County, Minn.; the mortality rates for all county residents 65 years or older (source: American Journal of Public Helath) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (96%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (91%); MEDICARE (83%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGED; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); AGING (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); STATISTICS (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); WRITERS (70%); MEDICAID (58%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K NICOLE LURIE (90%); 



35 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 10, Column 6; Science Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Q&A

 BODY:

Jumping Beans
 
Q. What makes Mexican jumping beans jump?
A. Mexican jumping beans, actually seeds of plants in the Croton family, are invaded by larvae of a moth, Cydia saltitans, and it is the larvae that make the beans move, said Dave Mills, an entomologist with the Arizona Commission of Agriculture and Horticulture.
The larvae are aroused by the warmth of someone's hand, making the ''beans'' jump.
The insect, commonly called the Mexican jumping bean borer, is native to Mexico and is now found in Arizona and Florida, he said. Plants in the Croton family are chiefly weeds. The moth is related to some serious pests, like the codling moth and the hickory shuck worm, he said. The feeding habits of its larvae could be of economic concern in Mexico, he said, but added that he did not know of any threat to crops in this country. 
 
Freeze-Dried Air
 
Q. Can it get too cold to snow?
A. It can certainly get so cold that precipitation is highly unlikely, because the colder the air is, the less water vapor it can hold, said Joe Lundberg, a meteorologist at Pennsylvania State University in College Station ''At temperatures around 40 degrees below zero Fahrenheit, it is very difficult to produce precipitation, and if it does snow, there is very little of it,'' he said.
At very low temperatures there is essentially no moisture in the air, he said, because most of the water that vaporized into the air at higher temperatures has already condensed or sublimated in the form of rain or snow. When the temperatures risecloser to the freezing point, the water content of the air, and hence of any snow that precipitates, can be much higher.
''If you look at precipitation records in Antarctica and the Arctic, when temperatures are very cold, there is little snowfall,'' he said.
Readers are invited to submit questions about science to Questions, Science Times, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. Questions of general interest will be answered in this column, but requests for medical advice cannot be honored and unpublished letters cannot be answered individually.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Q&A column of Science Times on Jan. 2 about air temperature and precipitation gave an incorrect location for Pennsylvania State University. It is in University Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ARCTIC (79%); ANTARCTICA (68%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (78%); HORTICULTURE (73%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (72%); METEOROLOGY (72%); ENTOMOLOGY (72%); 



36 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Why '89 Party Had So Few Winners

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
For many an investor, living through 1989 was like having a miserable time at what should have been a great party. Whether 1990 is any better may depend on whether interest rates fall fast enough to offset declining profits.
Heiko H. Thieme, a market strategist for Deutsche Bank Capital, called 1989 ''the second-best year of the decade.'' And by the popular market averages, he is right. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 27 percent, just behind 1985's gain of 27.7 percent. The bond market also zipped along, with interest rates on Treasury securities falling and producing handsome returns for investors.
So why the unhappiness? In part, it was that a lot of investors picked the wrong investments. Small stocks stumbled late in the year. Technology stocks went from unloved to despised. Bank stock investors learned that third world nations were not the only borrowers who could no longer pay, as many banks took big write-offs on real estate loans. And bond investors early in the year were much more likely to be buying junk bonds, which were soon to tumble amid a wave of defaults, than to be picking up the Treasury securities that turned out to be real bargains. 
 
Selling Low, Buying High
To make things worse, most of the gains came early in 1989, when many investors were cautious. They bought later, just in time to watch prices slip. ''We saw a lot of cash come into the equity market just as the market reached its high,'' said Abby Joseph Cohen, the chief strategist at Drexel Burnham Lambert. Many smaller stocks ended the year below where they were in the first half, although larger companies generally rose. A dramatic exception was the largest stock in the country, International Business Machines, which ended 1989 down 23 percent for the year.
Add to that the litany of layoffs on Wall Street, and many professional investors ended 1989 in a truly foul mood. Richard Hoey, Drexel's chief economist, reports that his November poll of investment pros found just 11.1 percent expecting a bull market in early 1990. That percentage was the lowest Mr. Hoey has recorded since he began asking the question in 1983, falling even below the 12.4 percent recorded after the 1987 crash.
Such figures suggest a consensus of pessimism on Wall Street. But Robert Farrell, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch, notes that there are signs that some people are investing their money a lot more bullishly than they are talking.
A survey by Indata, a service of Gordon, Haslett & Company of Stamford, Conn., that monitors institutional portfolios, indicates that managers of equity funds have just 6.1 percent of their assets in cash and short-term money market instruments, even less than the 6.3 percent that was on hand at the end of August 1987, when stocks peaked before beginning the fall that culminated in the October crash.
By contrast, on Aug. 9, 1982, when investors were genuinely bearish and the great 1980's bull market was about to begin, cash levels stood at 16.9 percent.
One reason for the low cash level now is that many institutional money managers think it is not their job to decide when to pull back from equities and raise cash; that is up to the client, usually a corporate sponsor of pension funds that allocates money among different managers. Late in the year, when nervousness rose, the managers did not get out of stocks, but many did move into what they thought were safer stocks. Utilities, paying a high dividend and with revenues that are resistant to recession, became market stars late in the year, with the Dow Jones utility average rising 8.7 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with a 2.2 percent gain for the Dow industrials.
In mutual funds, where many managers have more leeway to raise cash, cash levels in stock mutual funds were up to 11.1 percent at the end of November, the most recent figures available. In the aggressive growth funds that buy small stocks, whose performance was generally poor in late 1989, cash levels climbed to a high 11.9 percent.
 
Mutual Fund Sales Rise
The professional pessimism comes at a time when individual investors are showing considerable willingness to buy shares. Sales of stock mutual funds rose throughout the year, and investors also stepped up their direct purchases of shares. One reflection of the improved business came in the shares of Charles Schwab & Company, the discount brokerage firm, which soared 106 percent in 1989.
But the price of a seat on the New York Stock Exchange ended the year at $420,000, down 33 percent from the $625,000 price at the end of 1988, and off 63 percent from the $1.15 million peak set in 1987. While trading volume picked up a bit in 1989, institutional commission rates continued to fall, and now are down to 6 cents a share or less. Brokers are not making much money from trading, and that is reflected in seat prices.
What bullishness there is now is based on a firm belief that interest rates are headed lower, as the Federal Reserve tries to keep a slowing economy from falling into a recession. The indicators that show high levels of pessimism about stocks show equally high levels of optimism about bonds. ''I think we will have a major interest-rate decline that will be much more important than earnings turbulence,'' said John D. Connolly, chairman of the investment policy committee at Dean Witter Reynolds.
Mr. Connolly, and many others, think interest rates will fall fast enough to offset the impact of lower corporate earnings in early 1990. Virtually everyone on Wall Street expects lower profits in the first half of the year, but some optimists think earnings will then rebound late in the year as the economy picks up steam, allowing corporate profits for all of 1990 to exceed the 1989 level.
 
Profit Estimates Falling
Profit estimates have been coming down for the last several months, ever since third-quarter earnings proved broadly disappointing, and some who are bearish think that will continue as weak demand for goods squeezes margins. ''The consensus forecast for corporate profits is still too high,'' Mrs. Cohen of Drexel said. ''Stock prices are already reflecting the best that is likely to happen in 1990.''
As 1988 ended, the dollar was at depressed levels, but it rallied early in the year and held on to its gains against the Japanese yen and many other currencies. But the West German mark became the strongest currency, and the dollar fell to new lows in December against it and other European currencies tied to the mark. For some maturities, German interest rates are now higher than similar American rates, a historic reversal.
In the long run, it is possible that the convergence of interest rates among the world's major economies - Japanese rates are also rising, although still well below those in the United States - will improve American competitiveness by allowing American companies to borrow money at rates similar to those faced by companies in other nations. But in the shorter term, Mrs. Cohen worries that a need to support the dollar could keep American interest rates from falling much further. And that, she said, would be a big disappointment for the stock market.
As the year ended, there were few economists who were forecasting a 1990 recession in the United States. One reason may be that most economists have wrongly forecast one or more recessions since 1982, and many are wary of making the same mistake again.
 
Dumping Cyclical Stocks
But many investors seem unwilling to bet on a vibrant economy. In the final month of 1989, the consensus investment strategy was to dump cyclical stocks - companies like auto makers that are heavily dependent on economic growth - and buy safer stocks. Technology stocks also crumbled, capped by a decision by the Vanguard group of mutual funds to force its small stock funds, known as Explorer and Explorer II, to slash their holdings of technology stocks and to promise never again to buy so many.
There are plenty of reasons advanced for the poor performance of small stocks, ranging from the belief that foreign investors prefer names they know to the suspicion that more small companies would falter in a recession. But there is no doubt they were unpopular for most of the fourth quarter. In the over-the-counter market, more stocks declined in price than rose for 11 consecutive weeks, with the string ending only in the final week of the year. The Nasdaq composite index fell 3.8 percent in the quarter.
Bank stocks were weak, with smaller banks traded over the counter especially hard hit. Many of them had little or no exposure to third world debt problems, but all have real estate loans, and fear is growing about how many of those will default.
In place of all those ''risky'' stocks, investors turned to stocks that might avoid severe damage in a recession, notably utilities and makers of consumer goods like food. Energy shares also rose, aided by cold weather and a growing belief that the worldwide excess supply of oil was shrinking.
 
'Getting Crazy Out There'
To some analysts, among them David Eisenberg of Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, the market went too far. ''It's getting crazy out there,'' he said. ''Did you know that the market value of the cellular telephone stocks is now equal to that of the banks?'' His conclusion is that there is value in financial and cyclical stocks, while supposedly ''safe and sound'' stocks like food issues are overvalued.
Market watchers of a historical bent may take some comfort from the fact that 1989 was just the fifth year since World War II that the Dow industrials rose more than 25 percent. In each of the previous four instances, the Dow rose by at least 15 percent the following year. So there are historical reasons, at least, to hope the market's momentum will not soon vanish.

GRAPHIC: graphs of the stock market in '89 (pg. D1); the best and worst performers in the Standard & Poor's 500 (Source: Standard & Poor); the 10 bestr postwar years for the Dow (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); IBMC (BRU) (53%); IBM (NYSE) (53%); IBM (LSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (51%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); LAYOFFS (62%); 

PERSON: RICHARD HOEY (61%); 



37 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. and World Bank Face New Task in Eastern Europe

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 1

 BODY:
The lamps were burning late in the afternoon of Christmas Day in the office of Eugenio F. Lari, director of East European operations for the World Bank, as he completed a report on a project to modernize the Hungarian banking system.
Four days before Christmas, Massimo Russo, Mr. Lari's counterpart at the International Monetary Fund, walked off an airplane here after three weeks in Warsaw negotiating conditions of the fund's first loan to Poland, for $710 million. ''You move from hotel to Ministry of Finance, which in Warsaw is just behind the hotel,'' Mr. Russo said. ''So you see very little, and you work very long.'' 
As the curtain falls on four decades of Communist rule, the two Washington-based institutions, founded to assist the postwar reconstruction and development of Europe and Japan, are now leading international efforts to promote economic rebuilding in Eastern Europe.
 
East Bloc Aid
The two men - who happen to be Italians working across the street from each other a few blocks from the White House - head departments of 65 economists and other professionals at the bank and nearly 20 at the fund, who are already channeling advice and dollars to the Eastern bloc.
With about 7,000 employees, the bank is about four times bigger than the I.M.F. Their role in recent years has been chiefly to help third-world countries.
It is pure coincidence that the two key East European players are Italian. The Washington staff of both institutions is drawn from about 100 countries.
Yet, as the two men note, there may be certain benefits. For one thing, because both men are Italian as well as close friends, coordination and cooperation between the two organizations is smoothed and tensions over turf are reduced.
The bank makes longer-term loans mainly for roads, irrigation works and other development projects, while the fund lends for briefer periods, mainly to help countries overcome short-term international payments problems. Both institutions set the conditions for their loans.
''We have very good relations with the bank,'' Mr. Russo said. ''There is trust between us and a clear definition of responsibility.''
 
Italy a Role Model
Another advantage is suggested from the position of Italy - which has long operated a mixed economy with important state and private sectors - as a role model for much of Eastern Europe.
''All these countries look at Italy as a country that is not very rich in natural resources and is already overpopulated, but which has been able to develop in a satisfactory way, particularly after the Second World War, and they see things that they can adjust to and imitate in their country,'' Mr. Lari noted.
''I keep telling them that if we have been successful, why shouldn't you? And they can now even benefit from the mistakes that we have made.''
He cites studies showing that over the last four decades, had the Eastern European countries pursued economic policies similar to those of Western countries, their per-capita income would be one-third higher.
Both Mr. Russo and Mr. Lari have lived in the United States for most of the last three decades and have earned advanced economics degrees from American universities, Mr. Russo from Yale and Mr. Lari from Vanderbilt.
 
Rumania Was First
Rumania, Poland and Hungary already belong to the two institutions. Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria and East Germany are likely to seek membership, although at this stage only Czechoslovakia has indicated such intentions.
''I'm still hoping that Albania will come around,'' Mr. Lari said. ''There are no signs as yet, despite some small openings in the cultural and commercial sectors.''
Rumania signed up in the early 1970's. Its leader, Nicolae Ceaucescu, who was executed in Bucharest on Dec. 25, fully repaid loans from the bank and the fund in the early 1980's and had since had nothing to do with either organization.
Hungary joined in 1982, and it has already obtained $2 billion in loans from the World Bank. The I.M.F. and Hungary, where democratic elections are scheduled for March 25, are negotiating a one-year standby credit to tide the country over through 1990. The amount of the credits has not been set, but could be around $100 million to $200 million.
The terms of Poland's $710 million loan from the fund include a package of tough economic reforms, including limits on wage increases, the transfer of factories to private control, cuts in Government subsidies and protection of private property.
The fund's seal of approval unlocks much additional assistance, including $1 billion from industrial countries to establish a realistic value for Poland's currency, the zloty, and hundreds of millions of dollars from the World Bank.
The first World Bank loans, totaling $360 million, are expected to be approved in January. They are destined for projects intended to break bottlenecks in the Polish economy.
The World Bank funds would be used, for example, to build cold storage at fruit and vegetable processing plants, install machines that produce smaller, more convenient cans for packaging of hams and introduce new bottling lines for beer production.
On top of the continued need for aid from countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America, the new demands from Eastern Europe - with a combined population of 140 million -could strain resources of both institutions, especially of the fund.
 
Benefit for Third World
In 1988, the member Governments authorized a doubling of the World Bank's capital. The fund is looking for a similar increase, but because of Congressional opposition and budget restraints, the United States, the biggest stockholder with 20 percent of the shares, has not given its approval.
For the time being, activity in Eastern Europe is unlikely to affect programs of the bank and the monetary fund in other parts of the world. Over the longer term, officials like Mr. Lari argue that an economically healthier Eastern Europe will actually benefit third world countries.
''The Eastern European countries represent a big addition to the market for the third world, and they themselves will be a source of export of capital and technology,'' he said. ''It's in the interest of the third world that Eastern Europe develops and grows.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Eugenio F. Lari and Massimo Russo (NYT/Mike Theiker) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (92%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); POLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; LARI, EUGENIO F; RUSSO, MASSIMO EUGENIO F LARI (88%); MASSIMO RUSSO (81%); 



38 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: WALL STREET OUTLOOK;
Analysts See Lower Rates In First Half

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Most credit market analysts predict that the gradual decline in interest rates that began last spring is likely to continue well into the first half of 1990. By summer or early fall, however, the bottom will have been reached and a firming trend will emerge, they say.
As ever, the outlook for rates is heavily dependent on how the economy is expected to perform. And at the moment, the key economic indicators continue to suggest that growth, which was tepid at best in the fourth quarter, is not likely to show renewed signs of vigor until the second quarter at the earliest. 
''We are looking for a slower economy in 1990, with most of the weakness in the first half,'' said Gary Schlossberg, vice president and chief economist at the Wells Fargo Bank in San Francisco. ''For the year, growth should be just under 2 percent, versus about 3 percent in 1989.''
 
Few Expect Recession
Though many economists expect a slowdown, as 1989 came to a close relatively few were forecasting that the economy would dip into recession this year. To a large extent, their confidence rests with the Federal Reserve Board.
The Fed, which has eased the overnight Federal funds rate by 1.50 percentage points since last spring, to the current 8.25 percent, is expected to do more of the same in coming months.
''We think the odds on a recession are reasonably low,'' said Ram Bhagavatula, chief financial economist at the Citicorp Investment Bank. ''Excluding the housing and automotive sectors, things look O.K.''
Compared with the drop in 1989, however, additional declines in rates are likely to be modest. And unlike last year, analysts said the bulk of the improvement is apt to be in shorter-term maturities.
As a consequence, the difference between yields on short-term Treasury bills and notes and long-term bonds, the so-called yield curve, will become more positively sloped over time. For much of last year the curve was stubbornly negative, meaning that short-term interest rates were higher than long-term bond yields.
''The Fed will have to continue easing,'' said Neil M. Soss, chief economist at the First Boston Corporation. ''But longer-term interest rates will not respond basis point for basis point. As a consequence, the yield curve is likely to take on a positive slope in 1990.''
 
Lower Funds Rate Seen
By spring, some analysts said the Fed may have pushed the funds rate down to as low as 7.50 percent.
Mr. Soss and others cited the dollar and a stubbornly high level of inflation as two big reasons why long-term bond yields, which ended 1989 at just under 8 percent, will remain close to current levels even as short-term rates slide.
''The centerpoint for the 30-year Treasury bond will continue to be around 8 percent,'' said Leonard J. Santow, a managing director at Griggs & Santow Inc., a financial consulting firm. ''We seem to be sitting on an inflation rate that is running at between 4 percent and 4.5 percent, and that doesn't seem to be changing.''
Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at the Chase Manhattan Bank, said, ''The 30-year bond can't really improve without a recession.''
Most analysts expect the dollar to slip lower during 1990, but in order to prevent a free fall, as well as to attract much-needed foreign capital, long-term interest rates will have to remain higher than they might otherwise be.
Moreover, with interest rates on the rise in West Germany and Japan, the competition for capital is intensifying.
 
Changes in Forecast
At the moment, analysts say, the factors that could alter the current forecast would, if realized, tend to push rates lower rather than higher.
Worries at the moment center on the market for high-yield ''junk bonds,'' which suffered major reversals in 1989 and may face additional serious problems this year.
Mr. Soss of First Boston said: ''We may have to be concerned with a continuing credit crunch where thrifts, banks and market participants take a more cautious view to stricter lending standards. That will keep the economy slower than it would otherwise have been.''
Steven Albert, director of high-yield research at Kidder Peabody & Company, said: ''Going forward, we are going to see higher default rates. The focus in 1990 will be on making money on distressed merchandise, to mine through issues that are dramatically oversold and to look for the new deals that are truly good. It will be a sober, difficult year.''
 
Decline in New Issues
Mr. Albert said new issuance of high-yield securities is likely to fall further. According to the Securities Data Company, new issues in 1989 dipped by more than 8 percent from 1988 levels, to $25.3 billion.
But continued problems in the junk bond market could prove beneficial for buyers of investment-grade corporate bonds, who realized handsome returns in 1989.
''It was a pretty good year for investment-grade corporates,'' said John Lonski, senior economist at Moody's Investors Service. ''And the problems in junk were one of the factors that may have helped the corporate market.''
Last year, Moody's corporate bond index posted a total return of 17 percent, somewhat less than the 19 percent return earned on long-term Treasuries but far above the 5 percent return recorded by high-yield junk bonds.
 
Other Things to Buy
But corporate issuers will face stiff competition for investors' capital this year.
''There are plenty of other things to buy,'' said Jessica Palmer, managing director and head of capital markets services at Salomon Brothers. ''Government agencies like the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation are increasing their appetite. And the Resolution Funding Corporation has only just started to issue securities,'' she added, referring to the agency created by Congress to finance the rescue of the savings and loan industry.
Competition from issuers of tax-exempt municipal debt should also be expected.
Last year, municipal issuers offered $120.8 billion worth of new long-term securiites, according to the Public Securities Association, an industry group, up from $116 billion in 1988. Market participants say that volume is likely to increase further this year.
''The need for infrastructure is great, and the Federal Government is not going to contribute,'' said Robert N. Downey, a partner at Goldman, Sachs & Company. ''Compared to the boom years of 1985 and 1986, when a lot of deals were done in advance of tax reform, the last three years have been skimpy. But I am very optimistic. I think the 1990's will be a period of growth.''

GRAPHIC: graph of key yields and treasury yields in '89 (Source: Salomon Brothers Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (56%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; FORECASTS; INTEREST (MONEY) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); RECESSION (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); YIELD CURVE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N WELLS FARGO & CO (54%); 



39 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Business and Health;
Time to Confront Health-Care Issue

BYLINE: By Milt Freudenheim

 BODY:
ADMINISTRATION officials, members of Congress and executives who buy or provide health care are girding for a broad debate on the future of the troubled medical system.
The problems include access to care for the 37 million Americans not covered by health insurance, long-term care for the elderly and spending that is expected to exceed $600 billion, about 12 percent of the gross national product in 1990.
Insurers are feeling pressure to loosen restrictions that are blamed for increasing the numbers of the uninsured, but there is widespread reluctance to spend even more money for change.
''I expect a national debate, vigorous discussion on the issues of long-term care, providing for the medically uninsured and other problems,'' said Louis W. Sullivan, the Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
Employers and Government officials say rising health costs threaten competitiveness and the efforts to reduce budget deficits. But some say the cost and access issues cannot be separated.
Two-thirds of the uninsured have full-time jobs, often at businesses with fewer than 25 employees, regarded as expensive to insure. Many small employers have dropped insurance. And people who have had expensive illnesses are often denied coverage.
Insurers have met with members of Congress and physicians' groups to discuss limiting rate increases and restrictions on coverage. ''I have a feeling that the insurance industry knows that there will have to be changes,'' said Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th, Democrat of West Virginia.
Bernard R. Tresnowski, president of the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association commented: ''The answer may be to permit insurance carriers to operate in that market under certain standards of behavior.''
A Government commission is scheduled to present a health-care plan to President Bush in March. Senator Rockefeller, the group's chairman, has suggested that employers be required to provide health insurance for their employees or to pay a tax to a fund to protect uninsured people.
Mr. Rockefeller said the Administration would face a fight in Congress if Mr. Bush proceeds with a reported plan to cut $8.5 billion from the Medicare and Medicaid budgets next year.
Mr. Rockefeller's group has not said how much the Senator's suggestion would cost. But Deborah Steelman, a Bush Presidential campaign adviser and chairwoman of an advisory council on Social Security, said the annual cost of comprehensive improvements might be $30 billion to $50 billion.
Although such costly changes are unlikely in 1990, Ms. Steelman said, a first step could be to expand the Federal-state Medicaid program. ''To bring in everyone who is under the poverty line, including single men and kids up to 18, as well as pregnant women and people with traumatic illnesses might cost $10 billion,'' she said.
Representative Bill Gradison, Republican of Ohio and a vice chairman of the Congressional commission, would go further. He said he wants to ''break the tie between Medicaid and poverty, so people above the poverty line can participate.''
Mr. Gradison noted that Congress has started in that direction by extending Medicaid eligibility for pregnant mothers and young children. ''But nothing comprehensive can be done without some new source of revenue,'' he said. ''We are moving closer to the kind of crisis that might force action to be taken. An increasing number of hospitals are eliminating whole services such as emergency rooms or trauma centers, or just closing their doors completely.''
Robert N. Beck, an executive vice president at the Bank of America, said that in Los Angeles, ''three hospitals have closed their emergency rooms, which puts more pressure on the county hospital.''
Establishing standards of proper medical care is a priority for many physicians. ''We see 1990 as the beginning of the era of accountability in the medical profession,'' said Dr. James S. Todd of the American Medical Association. He cited a new law that would revise Medicare payments, based on such criteria as the doctor' time, training, overhead expenses and intensity of effort.
Recommendations will come from several influential quarters. In addition to the reports due from the Congressional commission and Ms. Steelman's council, employers in the Washington Business Group and the National Association of Manufacturers are also drafting policy proposals. ''Employers, unions, medical groups, everybody is coming up with their own solutions,'' Mr. Wardrop said. ''But if we don't reach some consensus, the number of Americans without access will go to 40 million, costs will rise to 15 percent of the G.N.P., and the quality won't get any better.''

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS AND HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WOMEN (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); MEDICARE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); AGING (72%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT JAY ROCKEFELLER (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 



40 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 11, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: WALL STREET OUTLOOK;
Market-Value Index Set Record During Year

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
With economic conditions becoming more treacherous and takeovers less trendy, the companies that simply did what they said they were going to do walked away last year as the big winners on the American Stock Exchange.
Included on the list of top percentage gainers were some companies whose distinction appears to be that their earnings have improved nicely, like Old Spaghetti Warehouse Inc., a small but growing chain of restaurants, and Keane Inc., a Boston-based purveyor of computer software.
Over all, the Amex market-value index hit an all-time high of 397.03 on Oct. 10, and closed the year at 378, up by 23.5 percent. That fell short of the 24.8 percent advance by the New York Stock Exchange composite index, and the 27 percent climb by the Dow Jones industrial average. But the Amex gain exceeded the 19.3 percent rise by the Nasdaq composite index of over-the-counter issues. In 1988, the Amex's index outperformed the other gauges, posting a 17.5 percent annual rise. 
 
Aided by Oil and Gas
With a heavy concentration of smaller listings, the Amex might have trailed the 1989 pack by a wider margin were it not for its unusual number of oil and gas listings, said William M. LeFevre, the market strategist for Advest Inc. The sector enjoyed a good fourth quarter because of rising oil prices and the cold weather.
Volume on the Amex rose by 24.3 percent over the 1988 levels, to 3.1 billion shares, for a daily average of 12.4 million shares. That was short of the exchange's all-time high in 1987, when 3.5 billion shares changed hands.
The Amex's worst performers had more than their share of headaches. Manufactured Homes Inc., a retailer of mobile homes whose shares tumbled from $6.25 to 56 cents through the year, said it was having severe cash flow problems because of insufficient financing for its retail customers, and its auditors questioned whether it could survive as a going concern. The company declined to comment.
 
Centrust Spending Criticized
Centrust Savings Bank, the next worst performer, saw its once high-flying stock fall to 56 cents, from $5.75, by the year's end. The Florida-based institution has been sparring with industry regulators over criticism that it spent lavishly on art and other management perquisites despite heavy operating losses.
Enviropact Inc., a provider of environmental services, was unable to pay a tax bill, prompting its auditors to question the company's ability to survive as a going concern. Lawrence Turner, an outside director, said the company had since sold a division to pay the tax but must live with the stigma until its next audit. ''Unfortunately, there's no process for getting that relieved,'' he added.
Finally, political events abroad appeared to have both helped and hurt. For instance, the stock of the Compudyne Corporation, a maker of military electronic equipment, dropped by 72 percent over the year because of losses on fixed-price development contracts, a problem the company believes will be overcome in 1990.
But fears that military spending may be one casualty of peace has not helped Compudyne woo investors. ''It's not going to be high on a list of buys,'' said Stephen Henn, the company's treasurer.
On the other hand, the Stevens Graphics Corporation, a maker of printing presses, may have benefited when it landed some contracts in the Soviet Union, cracking what is expected to be a blossoming market for Western goods in that country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KEA (NYSE) (72%); ENV (NASDAQ) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (72%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (72%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (72%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KEANE INC (72%); SPAGHETTI WAREHOUSE INC (72%); ENVIROPACT INC (62%); NYSE MKT LLC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (92%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (AMEX)

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NINETEEN HUNDRED EIGHTY-NINE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); ACCOUNTING (85%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CASH FLOW (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (65%); MOBILE HOMES (63%); MOBILE HOME DEALERS (62%); TAX LAW (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (56%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (50%); 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH



41 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: With Rural Towns Vanishing, States Choose Which to Save

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: McCLUSKY, N.D., Dec. 29

 BODY:
Since the 1950's half the people and most of the businesses have left the barren buttes and prairies of Sheridan County in central North Dakota. The county has no doctor, no hospital, no traffic light, no Greyhound bus service and more ghost towns than live ones.
McClusky, the county's biggest town, might not be here if it were not the county seat, residents say. It has barely 600 people and a withering Main Street dotted with storefronts that have been closed for years. Nobody can remember when a new building last went up.
Watching shops close and towns disappear is ''like sitting there dying and waiting for someone to set the date for your funeral,'' said Darvin Engel, the Mayor of McClusky. 
Sheridan County is like hundreds of declining rural counties around the country facing questions about their survival that pose tremendous ethical and economic quandaries for state governments with limited resources.
In the years since the farm crisis laid waste to many rural communities, many states, by active policies or by inaction, have been resorting to a kind of economic triage - promoting economic development in thriving towns and counties while permitting weaker ones to die. The strategy, directly or implicitly, works in much the same way that a battlefield triage system favors treatment for the wounded who are most likely to live.
Because the idea is not a popular one in rural states, few state officials will openly acknowledge that they rely on this kind of economic strategy.
But scholars say most states are already engaged in some form of triage, whether they expand roadways in some counties at the expense of others or whether they choose not to show companies certain towns ''because they know there's no hope,'' said Mark Lapping, a professor of regional and community planning at Kansas State University who is director of the Kansas Center for Rural Initiatives.
Professor Lapping, who has written several books espousing the theory, said: ''You can't fix every rural bridge. States don't want to throw good money after bad. They don't say they will aggressively pursue this policy - they just hang back and let it happen. They just surrender to market forces.''
Nobody knows precisely how many small towns around the country have vanished in recent decades. Unincorporated towns of less than 1,000 people, which are among those most likely to disappear, are not even monitored by the Census Bureau. Calvin Beale, senior demographer in the Agriculture Department, said that each decade about 200 previously incorporated towns across the country fail to show up in the census, although he said there was no way to know from the statistics why the town governments disbanded.
 
Urgency in North Dakota
Mark Drabenstott, assistant vice president and economist of the Federal Reserve Bank in Kansas City, Mo., said that given scarce public resources in farm-dependent regions, state governments have two choices. ''Spread your development efforts very thinly over all communities and have little chance of those efforts succeeding,'' he said, ''or concentrate those efforts on a fewer number of communities and have a much higher chance of success.''
States across the Middle West are already struggling with this dilemma. Kansas recently formed a commission to study ways to direct resources to larger towns that officials envision as regional anchors in rural areas. Such a policy, many economists say, will inevitably draw resources away from declining towns.
And here in North Dakota, the economic questions appear even more urgent. The state, which has been losing jobs and people for most of this decade, is in the second year of drought and has yet to recover from the farm crisis of the 1980's.
In early December, North Dakota voters repealed a tax increase that was intended to offset a $100 million budget deficit that has led the state to make across-the-board cuts in all its services.
North Dakota's Governor, George Sinner, said the state was facing some painful choices about where the money would go.
''The state wants to keep every community it can,'' said Mr. Sinner, a Democrat. ''But when you have a declining population and tax base and have to keep the schools going and the highways going and the medical services and the nursing homes, it's going to be almost impossible to keep these communities alive. The state just can't do it all.''
 
The First to Go
What this means in North Dakota and other mostly rural states is that essential services and perhaps even entire counties will probably be consolidated to avoid redundancy and to assure that at least some communities survive, economists say.
''There are going to be some rural communities that prosper at the expense of dying neighbors, and I fully expect the trend to continue,'' Mr. Drabenstott said.
William C. Davis, North Dakota's director of industrial development, said that in the move toward regionalization, ''the towns that don't have much of a trade area and don't have any primary government service will be the first to go.''
Whether a state should permit this is far from settled. Roland Vautour, Under Secretary of Agriculture for Small Community and Rural Development, said that the will of the people should be the determining factor in deciding the fate of a community. Life or Death? ''The leadership has to come from the local area,'' Mr. Vautour said. ''The government ought not to be playing big brother in saying Community A should expire and Community B should prosper. How do you make that call?''
Professor Lapping suggests several other factors that states should consider in answering the difficult question of which towns will live and which will die: size (generally, for a town to survive, he says, it needs at least 2,500 people), economic diversity, corporate investment from outside the community, the willingness of residents to invest there, easy accessibility, and a relatively young population.
Sheridan County misses on almost all counts. A recent study by two Rutgers University scholars ranked Sheridan County among 10 deeply distressed North Dakota counties.
Each of the 10 counties has no more than four people per square mile, poverty rates of at least 20 percent and new construction of less than $50 per capita, as against the national average of $850 per capita, according to the study by Frank Popper, chairman of the Urban Studies department at Rutgers, and his wife, Deborah Epstein Popper, a geographer at Rutgers.
Complicating the problems of these counties is that their populations are steadily shrinking and aging. The median age in Sheridan County is more than 38 years, as against a median age of 27 in the state's two urban counties, according to Census Bureau data. And while the population in the United States has doubled since 1930, the population in Sheridan County has dropped by two-thirds, from a peak of 7,373 people in 1930 to about 2,500 last year spread out over nearly 1,000 square miles.
The county looked different just a few decades ago, when Mayor Engel was growing up. ''We used to have four grocery stores, two or three cafes, three creameries, four car dealerships, five service stations,'' Mr. Engel said. ''It doesn't seem possible, but it was.'' 'You Need People'
The problem now, Mayor Engel said, is: ''You need people, is what you need. And we don't have people.'' The numbers tell the story. In what has become a nationwide trend, the number of farms in Sheridan County declined by nearly half from 1950 to 1982, to 495 from 881. And in the past year, the Federal Farmers Home Administration has had to write off $1.9 million in outstanding debt that Sheridan County farmers were unable to pay, said James Pellman, supervisor of the agency's office in Sheridan County.
The county is almost solely dependent on farming and ranching, and residents attribute the county's downturn to the recent drought, low grain prices during much of this decade and Federal farm initiatives like the Conservation Reserve Program, which pays farmers to take marginal land out of production.
They admit that they have been unable to organize themselves and devise plans to attract businesses. But they say the state has a responsibility to help struggling communities like theirs.
''Nobody's investing in Main Street McClusky,'' said Walter Lipp, the county's prosecutor and only lawyer. ''The state seems reluctant to put money in rural areas. You go to meetings and they make a lot of promises, but they don't deliver.''
While places like Sheridan County look for aid, the state's current approach is to save only the towns that take steps to help themselves. The state offers low-interest loans and matching funds to communities that ''take the initiative,'' by raising money of their own to attract businesses.
A few years ago, the thriving town of Park River in northeastern North Dakota went to the state with a proposal for a high-technology plant to harvest fresh mushrooms, which were hard to come by in North Dakota. The town of 2,000 people offered to spend tens of thousands of dollars to improve the site and provide low-cost power. The state provided a low-interest loan of $380,000. Last fall the Midwest Mushroom Company began marketing mushrooms to wholesale distributors in four states.
 
'The Way the World Works'
As for those communities that do not or cannot come up with the money for such proposals, Mr. Sinner said: ''That's just the way the world works. There's a limit to what we can do.'' Some local officials and planners say that recent tough times may have actually improved some communities' chances for success. ''Most of our business have been hit by hard times in the past, and they're down to the point where they're lean and mean,'' said Paul Patterson, a community development executive in western Nebraska. ''They can make a profit and they'll rebuild and expand.''
But that seems somewhat illusory to people like Dr. Schindler, who looked out upon his office's waiting room, barren and empty of patients, and spoke with both wishfulness and resignation.
''You could talk to a hundred people, and it's the same story,'' Dr. Schindler said. ''We're going downhill - that's what's happening. There are hundreds of little towns just like us. I don't know what our fate is. If we hold our own, we'll be lucky.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Darvin Engel (NYT/Jeff Olson); map of North Dakota (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (50%); 

SUBJECT: STATES (US); RURAL AREAS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RURAL COMMUNITIES (92%); COUNTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); CENSUS (62%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL



42 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

A Stock Market Record:
Dow Average Breaks 2,800
 
Investors in a buying mood pushed the Dow Jones industrial average up 56.95 points yesterday, to 2,810.15, a new high and its first close above 2,800. Traders said a surge in the dollar encouraged the buying. Page D1.
 
Bush Budget Is Delayed
 
The Administration has told Congressional leaders that partly because of their delays, the White House will submit a 1991 budget on Jan. 29, a week past the deadline. Page A14.
 
Argentina Fights Inflation
 
Argentina's Government said it would stop printing australs, the nation's currency, in a move to halt runaway inflation, which is thought to be near 100 percent a week. Page A2.
 
Polls Are In, and So Is Miami
 
Who's No. 1 in college football? The news-agency polls and The Times's computer ranking agree that it is the University of Miami. Page B9.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); RANKINGS (85%); CURRENCIES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (65%); 



43 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Price-Shaken Argentina Halts the Money Flow

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Jan. 2

 BODY:
As grocery store workers were busy doubling prices and pharmacies opened with nearly bare shelves, the Government of President Carlos Saul Menem undertook a new plan today to turn back inflation by making Argentina's currency a scarce commodity.
The Government said it would print no more of the currency, called the austral, despite inflation that may have reached 100 percent since Christmas, and it urged people to hold onto to those they have until prices begin to retreat.
Economy Minister Erman Gonzalez promised that the plan he announced late Monday ''will allow the austral to stop being the symbol of our self-destruction.''
Although some political leaders expressed concern about social unrest, the public faced today's situation with calm. Most people seemed to be trying to follow Mr. Gonzalez's advice to avoid buying anything but necessities. Banks and foreign exchange houses were ordered to remain closed today, a factor that probably contributed to the sense of calm. 
 
Chaos Likened to 1976
Antonio Cafiero, Governor of Buenos Aires Province and leader of Mr. Menem's Justicialist Party, said the economic situation ''is becoming insufferable for the majority of Argentines.'' He also said that the current economic chaos is worse than that preceding the 1976 military coup against the Government of Isabel Peron.
At that time, he said, the foreign debt was just 10 percent of the $60 billion-plus it totals today, the country was producing 15 percent more in goods and services and there was full employment.
Last week, the commanders of all three military branches warned separately that the economic situation put democracy at risk, but they insisted they continued to support the civilian Government. This is thought to be the first time military leaders have spoken out on a political or economic matter not directly related to the armed forces since giving up power at the end of 1983.
Besides idling the mint's presses, the new policies announced by Mr. Gonzalez included the halting of cash payments of interest on internal-debt bonds and on large short-term deposits in banks, both favorite investments of financial speculators here, plus measures to attract to the exchange markets some of the large store of dollars held by big corporations. Credits Sought From U.S. While rejecting the idea of outright ''dollarization'' of the economy that had been proposed last week by some Menem advisers, Mr. Gonzalez said Argentina was seeking emergency credits from the United States and the International Monetary Fund to increase hard-currency reserves as a prelude to linking the value of the austral and the level of the country's reserves.
Argentina has been troubled by high inflation for decades, but it culminated at 200 percent for one month in July as Mr. Menem was succeeding Raul Alfonsin in the presidency. Wage and price accords quickly brought down monthly inflation to a single digit, and the new Government promised to reduce public expenditures and sell off big, inefficient state companies as part of a broad restructuring of the economy.
The size of the foreign debt, the third largest in Latin America, is not directly related to the present crisis because almost no interest has been paid on it for nearly two years.
The promised restructuring has been slow, accompanied by squabbling and resignations within the Menem economic team. At the beginning of December prices took off again, as did financial speculation in the large markets involving dollars and Government debt paper.
 
The Austral Collapses
Before Christmas, economists were predicting that inflation in December would reach 50 percent, but last week it appeared to soar far beyond that. Official figures have not been made public.
At the same time, the austral collapsed on foreign exchange markets. Last Thursday, the last day financial markets operated, it closed at just under 2,000 to the dollar. One week earlier, it stood at about 1,200, compared with 650 at the start of December.
Part of the reason for the periodic run on dollars here is the glut of cash in australs that comes onto the market every seven days when banks pay off the interest on short-term deposits or when holders of Government debt paper collect the interest. Short-term interest has reached as high as 600 percent a month in recent weeks.
Mr. Gonzalez said the Government had decided to dry up that periodic flood of australs - which speculators usually use to buy dollars, thereby driving up the dollar price - by paying the interest in long-term, dollar-denominated bonds that will, in turn, pay dollar interest at relatively low international rates.
 
Pressure on Companies
The minister said that by restricting the austral-interest payments, the Government also hoped to force big companies to sell off some of their hoards of dollars to get the australs to meet tax payments and pay suppliers. Several billion dollars are thought to circulate in Argentina in a sort of parallel dollar economy.
Mr. Gonzalez said that dollar reserves in the Central Bank amounted to $880 million, down from about $2.5 billion two months ago, and that the country's gold was worth $1.4 billion. He said those resources would be pledged to back up the australs in circulation once the Government had obtained international help.
He did not say how much Argentina was seeking from the United States, but newspaper reports in recent days said officials had talked with Terence Todman, the United States Ambassador, about figures ranging from $500 million to $1.5 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARGENTINA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (75%); TRENDS (68%); COUPS (67%); 

PERSON: MENEM, CARLOS SAUL (PRES); CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY CARLOS SAUL MENEM (92%); 



44 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-13
 
All of Rumania's former Politburo is in detention, the new Government announced. More than three dozen members of the ruling body commanded by Nicolae Ceausescu were arrested after the dictator's execution. Page A1

 
For Jews in Rumania, coup is a mixed blessing A12

Reporter's Notebook: Rumanians ask, Where to now? A12

 
Vaclav Havel visited both Germanys in his first foray abroad since being sworn is as President of Czechoslovakia last week. A13

 
Riots have broken out in Azerbaijan, the southern Soviet Republic rocked by ethnic conflict. The Soviet press agency Tass reported ''barbarous'' actions and rising tensions along the Iranian border. A13 
 
 
Poles were shaken but optimistic as the Government's economic program to move Poland toward capitalism went into full force - even as the price of bread jumped 38 percent yesterday. A13

 
$1 billion fund set up to back Warsaw's currency plan A13

 
Two nuns were killed in Nicaragua by gunmen who ambushed their car. An American bishop and another nun were wounded. The Nicaraguan Government said U.S.-backed contra rebels were responsible for the attack. A1

 
The Panama Canal's administrator is now a Panamanian for the first time in its 75-year history. Fernando Manfredo took over administration of the canal Jan. 1 under a stipulation of the Panama Canal treaties. A6

 
Bush appoints a new Ambassador for Panama A6

Israeli sought in Panama may have been alerted to invasion A6

 
Printing of Argentina's currency, the austral, was halted by the Government of President Carlos Saul Menem in an effort to turn back the nation's rampant inflation. A2

 
Luxury car production in Japan poses a new and costly challenge to Detroit. A new mix of robotic technology and traditional craftsmanship enables Japan's auto makers to build first-rate luxury cars for less money. A1

 
A split in the Likud-Labor coalition that governs Israel was averted when party leaders reached a compromise that suspends Labor's independent-minded minister, Ezer Weizman, from the inner cabinet, but not from Government. A3

 
Widespread labor strife in Lebanon threatens to further strain the nation's political and military tensions after the Government of President Elias Hrawi ordered a wage increase for workers that merchants say they cannot meet. A3

 
Chemicals sprayed on oil slick off Morocco to save coastline A3

 
A U.N. environmental accord, reached at the 1989 General Assembly session, has committed the 159 member nations to drafting a treaty on stabilizing the earth's climate and convening a world conference in Brazil in 1992. A5

 
NATIONAL A14-17
 
The history of the hydrogen bomb is being revised, downplaying the role of a spy in giving the Soviet Union the crucial secret and the role of Edward Teller in inventing the weapon. A1

 
The decline of America's rural towns and counties poses economic and ethical dilemmas for state governments. Since the farm crisis, states have directly or indirectly promoted economic development in some and let the weaker ones die. A1

 
The White House budget for 1991 will be submitted a week late, Bush Administration officials told the Democratic leadership in Congress. A14

 
Pittston strike leaves deep vein of anger in coal country A14

 
A Louisiana chemical workers union has raised the state's environmental consciousness during its 5-year labor dispute with BASF Corporation, union leaders say. A16

 
Evidence links the rash of bombings aimed at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit and civil rights groups, suggesting it is the work of the same person or group, the F.B.I. said. A17
 
Jury in California views tape of Senator accepting $3,000 check A17

Eastern Airlines announces new discount fares A15

William Roper named head of Centers for Disease Control A16

 
The Dow Jones average rose 56.95 points, to its highest level ever at 2,810.15. The advance came on a late burst of buying and a surge by the dollar. D1

 
Testing for drug abuse becomes a booming business D1

A new rival for the personal computer D1

 
REGIONAL B1-4
 
An environmental bond issue to preserve New York State's open spaces is expected to be announced by Gov. Mario Cuomo in his annual State of the State message today. A1

 
State of the State: Cuomo's well-laid plans for 1989 B2

 
Representative Robert Garcia, who faces sentencing on conspiracy and extortion convictions, has resigned. Democratic leaders in New York are expected to back Assemblyman Jose Serrano to fill his seat. A1

 
Mayor David Dinkins went to work yesterday, holding a series of talks with aides, politicians and financiers that focused mainly on the budget gap New York City faces. B1

 
Bronx Councilman in line for top post on Land Use Committee B3

 
Joseph A. Fernandez's first day as chancellor of New York City's schools underscored his intention to reshape the system by involving teachers, principals and parents in running schools. B1

 
Lean times face military contractors throughout New York, New Jersey and Connecticut as Washington talks of smaller defense budgets. No drastic cuts are expected soon, but contractors are preparing for an uncertain future. B1

 
Connecticut faces a budget deficit of $65 million for the fiscal year, officials said. The announcement comes six months after the state enacted the largest tax increase in its history to solve last year's budget woes. B2

 
The prominent AIDS protest group Act-Up has helped keep the disease in the news, often using methods many people find rude, disruptive, rash and effective. B1

 
New Yorkers met the fare increase prepared and with resignation yesterday. Long lines expected at subway token booths and bus stops never materialized in most cases; most riders had stocked up on tokens before the fare changed. B3
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
The Living Section
 
Last word on dieting: don't bother C1

Trouble among the epicurean elite C1

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Film directors' biographies: tales of youths as outsiders C13

Music: New Salzburg director C13

''Turandot'' at the Met C13

Public Enemy at the World C15

Word and Image: Vietnam medic's memoirs C17

 
EDUCATION B6-7

 
Northeast compact on teachers gets mixed review B7

 
SPORTS
 
Basketball: Suns beat Knicks B9
Column: Vecsey on who's No. 1 B9

Football: Miami ends at top B9

Soccer: Goalie with no nerves B9

 
OBITUARIES D19
 
Lawrence Alloway, art critic, historian and curator
 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A18

Poland's brave plunge
Felix Bloch, still in limbo
The mosaic thing
O'Neill's commuter war
 
Letters A18

Flora Lewis: Tale of two dictators A19

Russell Baker: Is this justice necessary? A19

John R. Silber: Don't roll back ''Roe'' A19

Robert Schaeffer: To Lithuania - Stay put A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (61%); 

COUNTRY: PANAMA (94%); ROMANIA (94%); ISRAEL (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); JAPAN (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); POLAND (79%); MOROCCO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (50%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (61%); PANAMA A6 (72%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); LUXURY GOODS (87%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); COUPS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); ARRESTS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); ROBOTICS (62%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); 

PERSON: NICOLAE CEAUSESCU (73%); VACLAV HAVEL (57%); 



45 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Takes Step Toward Global Climate Pact

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 2

 BODY:
After difficult negotiations, the nations of the world have laid the groundwork for an accord between rich and poor countries on protecting the atmosphere and encouraging ecologically sound development.
The agreement, reached at the 1989 United Nations General Assembly session, which ended late last month, commits the 159 member countries to draft a treaty on stabilizing the earth's climate and convene a world conference in Brazil in 1992 to discuss ways of reducing the environmental impact of economic development.
As now envisioned, the climate treaty would be adopted at the 1992 conference and would require signers to take appropriate action to prevent warming of the earth's atmosphere, setting goals on such issues as the destruction of forests and the emission of so-called ''greenhouse gases'' which trap heat in the atmosphere. 
At the same time the 1992 environmental conference will try to establish a consensus in favor of a more environmentally sound approach to development, with the industrialized countries offering to help the third world meet the additional costs involved. But while the United Nations unanimously approved the plan for a conference, diplomats say agreement was reached only by papering over differences on delicate issues that could still disrupt a final accord in 1992.
The most important relates to the underdeveloped countries' demands for affordable access to the new technology that they say they will need to make their development environmentally benign.
Many developing countries also believe that the industrialized world's growing environmental concern offers them a chance to press for a wide range of economic concessions in return for cooperation.
Arguing that poverty itself promotes environmental degradation by encouraging deforestation or overgrazing, they are pressing the industrialized countries to make debt relief and higher prices for their exports part of the final package.
This led to a dispute between the industrialized and developing countries at the General Assembly, with the industrialized countries trying to entrust preparation of the climate treaty and the 1992 conference to technical experts, while the third world sought to put the work under its political control.
The final compromise gives the main task of drafting the climate treaty to the United Nations Environment Program and the World Meteorological Organization, as the industrialized countries wanted. But the 1990 General Assembly session will give instructions to the negotiators.
Developed countries also strove to put the United Nations Environment Program in charge of planning the 1992 conference, with the preparatory meetings in Geneva, where third-world countries are less well representated than in New York. But the third world gave the job to a committee of the General Assembly, with meetings divided between New York, Geneva and Nairobi.
 
No Specific Pledges of Help
The industrialized countries accepted that the developing world needs help in combating environmental degradation, particularly through easier access to Western technology. But they refused to give specific pledges before the 1992 conference and completion of the climate convention.
The United States, in particular, argued that most environmentally safe technology - such as solar cells for electrifying villages or ''scrubbers'' for smokestacks - belongs to private corporations and cannot be given away by governments.
India, Sweden and several other countries tried to solve this problem by proposing an international fund, financed from taxes on pollution and voluntary contributions, to finance the purchase of enviromentally sound technology by developing countries.
But the industrialized world would go no further than saying the 1992 conference should ''consider'' such ideas and ''explore the concept of assured access for developing countries to environmentally sound technologies.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (58%); 

STATE: EARTH (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

SUBJECT: WEATHER; ENVIRONMENT; AIR POLLUTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TREATIES; GREENHOUSE EFFECT CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); LAND DEGRADATION (88%); EMISSIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); DEFORESTATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); METEOROLOGY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL



46 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Bush Picks a Panama Envoy And Sends Team There, Too

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2

 BODY:
President Bush today announced the appointment of a veteran diplomat, Deane R. Hinton, as the new United States Ambassador to Panama.
Mr. Hinton, 66 years old, the current Ambassador to Costa Rica and a career Foreign Service officer, helped shape United States policy in El Salvador as envoy there in the early 1980's and was sharply critical of abuses by its army. Mr. Hinton, who has also served as Ambassador to Pakistan, will replace Arthur Davis, a political appointee who is retiring after three years in the post.
A White House statement said that he President had given Mr. Hinton a recess appointment, permitted because Congress is not now in session, that enables him to serve without Senate confirmation until the next Congress is inaugurated in January 1991.
Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger and other senior Administration officials flew to Panama today to discuss with the new civilian leaders there the entire range of problems the country is facing, particularly ways in which Washington can assist the recovery of Panama's battered economy. 
 
Not About Noriega, He Says
Mr. Eagleburger denied reports that the purpose of the trip is to negotiate the fate of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, who spent a ninth day today in the Vatican diplomatic mission in Panama City.
He acknowledged that the issue may be discussed in his meetings scheduled for Wednesday with Panama's President, Guillermo Endara. ''Noriega's situation is not on my list of things to discuss with Endara,'' Mr. Eagleburger said before leaving for Panama. ''But if he brings it up, I'm happy to talk with him about it.''
Although the Bush Administration has wanted to replace Mr. Davis for some time, it was unable to do so after the United States withdrew its recognition of the Noriega-led Government in May. Mr. Davis was recalled from Panama after General Noriega voided the presidential election, but returned immediately after the American military intervention last month.
''The idea was a new government, a new guy,'' a State Department official said in explaining the appointment of Mr. Hinton. ''There was a sense that we needed someone with a lot of experience, particularly in the region.''
In Congress, the Senate majority leader, George Mitchell, Democrat of Maine, called Mr. Hinton highly qualified for the post because of his ''wide-ranging experience and expertise in Central America.'' But Senator Mitchell objected to the recess appointment, adding he hoped that President Bush would send the appointment to the Senate after Congress convenes Jan. 23 ''for formal consideration and thorough hearings.''
The Administration remained formally silent today about its talks with Vatican and Panamanian officials. What of Ex-Strongman? But an official said that Mr. Eagleburger was likely to reiterate publicly stated policy that General Noriega should come to the United States to stand trial on drug-trafficking charges, and a State Department spokesman, Richard Boucher, said today that the United States remained committed to bringing General Noriega to this country, where he is under indictment by two Federal grand juries.
In the last week, President Endara has shifted his position from opposing the extradition of General Noriega to favoring his arrest by the United States. However, Washington and the Vatican are engaged in a delicate diplomatic tug-of-war, with the Vatican taking the position that he must be turned over to the new Panamanian Government.
In Rome, the Vatican's chief spokesman, Joaquin Navarro-Valls, confirmed today that a church Latin American expert, Msgr. Giacinto Berloco, had been sent to Panama to help resolve the impasse. Despite Monsignor Berloco's presence in Panama, Mr. Eagleburger said he has ''no intention of talking to anybody in the church.''
The dispatching of the Eagleburger team and the appointment of Mr. Hinton are part of an effort by the Bush Administration to bolster Mr. Endara's standing as a political leader and shift the focus away from his dealings with the American military, a senior Adminsitration official said today.
 
'Part of That Process'
''It's important that Endara be seen dealing with non-military people, and sending a high-level diplomatic mission and a senior diplomat as Ambassador are part of that process,'' the official said.
In addition to Mr. Endara, Mr. Eagleburger and his colleagues are to confer on Wednesday with Panama's two vice presidents and with leading businessmen.
Panama faces the task of rebuilding a economy destroyed both by the American invasion and by two years of economic warfare with Washington that included economic and financial sanctions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PANAMA (96%); HOLY SEE (92%); COSTA RICA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREIGN SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); APPOINTMENTS (91%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); RELIGION (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HINTON, DEANE R (AMB); DAVIS, ARTHUR (AMB) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (79%); 



47 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST: AID TO WARSAW;
$1 Billion Fund Set Up to Back Poland's Currency Program

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2

 BODY:
The United States and 14 other industrialized countries, having promised to help Poland overhaul its currency, have established a $1 billion fund to support Warsaw's efforts to make its currency partly convertible into dollars and other hard currencies, the Treasury said today.
As a result, for the first time in 40 years Poles will be able to settle hard-currency commercial transactions in their own currency, the zloty. The move is part of the new Government's effort to replace central planning with a market-oriented economy.
The limited convertibility would be similar to the situation in many European countries after World War II before many currencies were made fully convertible in the late 1950's. 
 
Defending the Zloty
The money may be used by Poland's central bank to intervene in currency markets to defend a new rate for the zloty, which has just been devalued from 6,600 zloties to the dollar to 9,500.
Although industrialized countries have been in negotiations on the currency program since early last fall, today's announcement provides the first details about the terms and workings of the plan and who the donors are.
West Germany is making $250 million available, the largest donation. The United States has contributed $200 million, part of an $839 million three-year package of assistance for Poland that Congress approved late last year.
Other leading donors are Japan, $150 million; France, $100 million; Britain, $100 million; Italy, $100 million; Switzerland, $30 million; Canada, $25 million; Austria, $20 million, and Spain, $14 million.
The fund, which the Poles have to repay every quarter, is to operate for a year, but may be renewed under certain circumstances, said David C. Mulford, Under Secretary of the Treasury for international affairs.
The Poles will be able to draw up to $300 million initially. Larger withdrawals may be made only upon approval of a consultative committee made up of the contributor Governments.
The Polish economic program has been worked out with the International Monetary Fund, and the United States has taken the lead in setting up the fund. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York is acting as agent for the donor governments.
 
What the U.S. Could Gain
The stakes for Washington, Mr. Mulford said, are ''the transformation of Poland into a market-oriented economy.''
Critical to the transition, he noted, is the creation of some degree of convertibility and realistic price levels, so that Poland can more easily trade with the rest of the world.
Limited convertibility means that in transactions not related to international trade, it will be harder for Poles to convert zloties into dollars.
For years, the Soviet Union has considered making the ruble convertible. But most economists believe that Moscow would have to introduce market-oriented economic changes similar to those being tried in Poland, where wages are being restrained, subsidies cut, price controls removed and money supply growth reduced drastically.
The results in Poland, just about everyone agrees, are likely to be, at least initially, economic pain, higher unemployment and bankruptcies.
 
Moscow Applies Some Limits
Moscow recently announced intentions to maintain its centrally planned economic system for some years more.
But some Eastern bloc countries, including Czechoslovakia, Rumania and East Germany, could well follow the Poles toward a market economy, many economists say.
Mr. Mulford declined to comment on what the United States and other industrial countries might do for these countries, noting that it would depend on the circumstances at the time.
Poland is expected to get further assistance next month, Mr. Mulford said, when it sits down with the so-called Paris Club of creditor nations to negotiate a rescheduling of its debt.
He predicted ''generous terms,'' in which Poland would probably be given ''longer than 10 years'' to repay its obligations.
Altogether, Poland owes Western institutions some $39 billion: $27 billion to governments and $12 billion to commercial banks.

GRAPHIC: photo of shoppers in Warsaw (NYT/Witold Jaroslaw Szulecki)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); POLAND (97%); CANADA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (72%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID CURRENCIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEVALUATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); APPROVALS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); WORLD WAR II (55%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H DAVID C MULFORD (70%); 



48 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Strike Leaves Deep Vein of Anger in Coal Country

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, Va., Jan. 2

 BODY:
There were no celebrations in the coal towns of Appalachia today, no banners unfurled, no outward signs of joy that there may soon be an end to one of the nation's longest and most bitter miners' strikes.
One reason the 1,700 striking miners are holding back emotionally, after the initial euphoria that accompanied a tentative agreement, is that they have not seen the contract that their union and their employer announced Monday, on the 270th day of the strike and after weeks of intensive Federal mediation between the United Mine Workers of America and the Pittston Coal Group.
Union leaders hope to present the contract to the rank-and-file in the next 10 days, but first leftover lawsuits and fines levied against the union during the strike must be resolved. The settlement also needs the approval of the union's pension trustees.
Another reason the miners are slow to celebrate is that damage done by the strike has been emotional as well as financial, and those kinds of wounds do not heal in a day - or maybe ever, people here say. 
''This is the longest and most painful strike I've seen in 30 years,'' said the Rev. Jack M. Carnley, pastor of the Assembly of God Church here. ''Friends and families have been alienated emotionally, and there has been a lot of duress on everybody. In some families, the husband is union and the wife is company. The wife has to cross picket lines, where rocks have been thrown and where people ask the man, 'What's your wife working for?' It's going to take quite some time to heal these wounds.''
 
A Summer of Violence
A primary source of the bitterness and family strife is that Pittston, in a break with industry tradition, hired replacement workers during the strike and has kept most of its 30 mines and preparation plants open since the strike began April 5.
The strikers say this tactic has prolonged the strike, increased tension between the working salaried employees and the striking miners and kindled feuds among replacement workers and their neighbors and families. Strike-related violence and vandalism were daily occurrences during the summer, but have now become sporadic.
St. Paul is typical of the small struggling towns in the Appalachian coal region, and the pain its residents feel is common as well, union officials said. The town supported the strikers and let the union use its school football field for rallies, like the one the Rev. Jesse Jackson addressed on Labor Day. This is the kind of place where even the Mayor, Jack Kiser, is a striking miner.
Mr. Kiser, like most others interviewed here today, said he was relieved that an agreement had been reached. He said he was confident that union leaders had negotiated adequate health benefits and job security, two core issues.
 
Hard to Be Happy
But Mr. Kiser said it was hard to be happy, because the strike had caused so much pain in so many ways: ''Who knows, for example, how many young people got out of school this year and left home for good, saying, 'I'm not going to fool with the coal fields; I'm going to go work and live someplace else' ?''
The strike hurt one young family that was trying to move back home to St. Paul. ''My husband was promised a mechanic's job at a garage here, and we came back from Richmond in June,'' said Sharon K. Stevens, who paused in her shopping at the Piggly Wiggly supermarket. ''When we got here with our three kids, there was no job. They said business was off because of the strike. We've been getting by on food stamps and help from social services and the church. But if things don't straighten out soon, we'll have to go back to Richmond.''
For many years, young people have been moving away from towns like this one. Unemployment in the area was 9 percent last year, almost double the national average and more than double the state average, according to the Census Bureau.
 
Memories of Boom Times
The average family income in 1987, the latest year for which figures are available, was $10,012, far less than the state and national averages, according to the Census Bureau.
St. Paul, which sits in a valley next to State Highway 58, is a dreary patch of brick and frame houses that date most from the 1940's and 1950's, when St. Paul was a boom town.
Now the five downtown blocks look decrepit. There is a long-closed movie theater, a dilapidated hotel, several beauty shops, second-hand shops and the modern Piggly Wiggly supermarket. A new shopping center, on the outskirts of town, provides some new life for the region at the same time it drains business from downtown.
There is no longer a company store, but St. Paul is still a company town.
''Sixty percent or better of everything in town is related to mining, and most of the 1,200 people in town are dependent on Pittston,'' said Mr. Kiser.
 
Relief on the Other Side
Salaried mining employees, too, are relieved that the strike may soon be over. ''People understand that the management people have to do the job,'' said James W. Steele, a Pittston engineer who has worked during the strike. ''They really don't hold it against me personally, but the tension has been there.''
This strike has not meant financial ruin for the miners, who had two years to prepare for the strike and have received $225 a week in strike pay since April. They also received a $1,000 Christmas bonus, and the union has helped some families meet payments for car loans and mortgages.
But small businesses, particularly those that sell non-essentials, have been hard hit.
Eugene D. Stewart, owner of a furniture and appliance company in the new mall, said business had been slow since strike talk began two years ago. ''We sell things that people don't need to eat or drink,'' he said. ''I'm hoping that there will be a lot of pent-up demand for furniture.''
 
Bitterness on the Line
But it is the the nonunion people who have worked through the strike, the people who suffered the most humiliation, who speak most enthusiastically about the agreement.
''I'm real glad it's over,'' said Wayne Meade, a 38-year-old nonunion truck driver who said it may take ''five or more years'' for him to mend relationships torn by the strike. He works for a company that transports coal for Pittston, and every time Mr. Mead drove across the picket line he saw many of his lifelong friends - and his brother.
''The whole community felt that we've prolonged the strike by hauling coal, that what we done is beating them out of a job,'' Mr. Meade said. ''My brother doesn't blame me, but some of the people I grew up with and went to school with don't treat me as friendly anymore.''
''But I don't hold it against them,'' he continued. ''They got to do what they got to do, and I got to do what I got to do to provide for my family.''
Mr. Carnley said he and his parishioners have prayed for a fair and equitable settlement. Now, he said, they will pray for peace.

GRAPHIC: photos of Sharon K. Stevens and her son; Mayor Jack Kiser (NYT/Ken Murray); map of St. Paul, Va.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: PITTSTON COAL GROUP (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSTON COAL GROUP INC; UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA (UMW) UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA; 

SUBJECT: COAL; STRIKES; LABOR MINE WORKERS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); COAL MINING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); STRIKES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (87%); FAMILY (86%); US LABOR DAY (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (76%); APPROVALS (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); VANDALISM (69%); LITIGATION (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (55%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY JESSE JACKSON (54%); 



49 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Labor Dispute in Louisiana Ends With Ecological Gain

BYLINE: By FRANCES FRANK MARCUS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 2

 BODY:
The end of a long, bitter labor dispute against a major Louisiana chemical maker has left in its wake not just a new contract but a new toughness in the state's environmental movement.
Leaders of the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Union say they won the new contract in December largely because of a campaign against the BASF Corporation that included charges that the company was a habitual polluter. More broadly, the union says, its campaign succeeded in making industry in Louisiana and elsewhere behave more responsibly toward the environment.
William Fontenot, environmental specialist in the State Attorney General's office, concurred. He said that in the five years, the union ''has raised the level of consciousness about the environment in Louisiana'' and has helped persuade the state to regulate industry more closely. 
 
Company Denies Role
But Richard Donaldson, industrial relations manager for BASF, said the union's ''corporate accountability campaign was not an issue at the bargaining table.''
Mr. Donaldson said the dispute was settled because both sides were ''anxious to make an agreement.'' He said the company needed more workers because business had boomed at its petrochemical complex in Geismar, along the Mississippi between New Orleans and Baton Rouge. There BASF makes antifreeze, chemicals for permanent-press fabrics, and other products.
The environment was not an issue in June 1984, when BASF locked out 370 workers who charged that a proposed new labor contract was unfair.
At that time, with the petrochemicals business in a slump, management had asked for an eight-month freeze on pay and wanted the union's permission to change maintenance workers' pay structure - in effect, cutting most salaries. Management also asked the workers to pay a greater share of their health insurance premiums while cutting benefits, and it wanted to eliminate job protection for seniority.
By the June 1984 contract deadline, BASF would not let the workers stay on the job under the old contract. It locked them out and hired temporary replacements, running the plant at full capacity with 100 fewer workers. The union charged that the plant was unsafe because the workers were unskilled.
In 1987, the company allowed production workers to come back without a contract, and BASF says the lockout ended then. But 110 maintenance workers were not taken back because a nonunion subcontractor had filled their jobs. The status of those workers has been an issue since then.
 
Locked-Out Workers Return
Under the new contract, approved Dec. 18, the 110 maintenance workers will be allowed to return to the plant as production workers, after training. The locked-out workers will receive raises and credit for seniority, but no credit in pension plans for time away from the jobs.
Using money from dues, the international union's defense fund and contributions from locals around the country, the union attracted the attention of people here in Louisiana and elsewhere with what a BASF spokesman, Robert G. Thoma, called a ''scorched-earth campaign that's meant to destroy the company.''
The union placed questions on billboards near the plant asking, for example, ''Is BASF the Gateway to Cancer Alley?,'' a reference to pollution generated by industry along the river where BASF is situated.
In the months following the lockout, union members worked with environmental groups to protest that a $66,700 fine against BASF for five air pollution violations was too small. A state appellate court has ordered the state to recompute the fine on the basis of economic benefits that BASF gained by not installing proper pollution controls.
 
'The Public Expert'
The local's chief negotiator, Ernie Rousselle, said the campaign was an ''intensification'' of what the union has done in other regions.
Paul Templet, the state's top environmental official, called the union ''the public expert'' on pollution. ''They had their own technical people,'' he said. ''They prepared papers and gave them to us. It made us very careful about how we dealt with the company, knowing there were technical experts on the union side.''
Union members, accompanied by spouses and children, packed state hearings on environmental issues. They wrote letters and carried petitions urging stronger environmental controls on industry. They joined conservation groups. One union member, copying machine in tow, combed state records for data on petrochemical plants.
During the lockout, union members took advantage of their slack time for some self-education. Darren Stevens, who had been an electrician at BASF, now plans to study for an advanced degree in environmental science. ''I don't want to go back out into any chemical plant,'' Mr. Stevens said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BFA (LSE) (95%); BASF (BIT) (95%); BAS (FRA) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (95%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (95%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (95%); NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BASF SE (95%); BASF CORP (72%); OIL CHEMICAL & ATOMIC WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BASF CORP; OIL CHEMICAL & ATOMIC WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OIL CHEMICAL & ATOMIC WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS; LABOR; STRIKES; ENVIRONMENT LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LOCKOUTS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PETROCHEMICALS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE CHEMICALS MFG (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (75%); PLANT CAPACITY (73%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (55%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%); 

PERSON: MARCUS, FRANCES FRANK



50 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Let Marketplace Repair Our Crumbling Nation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Felix G. Rohatyn's proposal to set up state infrastructure banks to cure deficiencies in the national infrastructure (''To Repair Our Nation,'' Op-Ed Dec. 17) is not only unnecessary, but also downright mischievous. While Mr. Rohatyn is not specific about who would make the investment decisions, his proposed combination of a state taxing effort, public employee pension funds and Federal guarantees is unlikely to improve the processes that have brought about our miserable situation.
A better starting point would be to recognize that roads, railways and airports are assets to which can be applied the same market principles that are used successfully in industry and commerce. If markets were allowed to work in the case of, say, airports, the owners of the few that are congested would raise their landing fees, and travel would be diverted to the hundreds that have spare capacity. High profits made by some airports would attract appropriate investment to relieve specific shortages. No market signals of this kind would be available to help Mr. Rohatyn's infrastructure banks. 
Roads are another case in point: although road space in and around Manhattan is frequently crowded, tolls are not raised, and road space is not priced, despite the teachings over the last 30 years of Columbia University's William Vickrey. Economic charges for congested roads would allow our roads to be used more efficiently and would raise funds for justified improvements.
Even if facilities are not privatized, allowing the private sector to invest in profit-making ones would go a long way to do the things - such as raising economically justified user charges - that only government can do.
As Alfred Kahn wrote in 1984: ''The market does not solve all our problems, but it takes a special kind of idiocy to refuse to let it do jobs it obviously can do.''
 
GABRIEL ROTH
 Washington, Dec. 18, 1989
The writer is a civil engineer and transport economist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC WORKS; REPAIR SERVICES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (56%); 

PERSON: ROTH, GABRIEL FELIX G ROHATYN (91%); 



51 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Tap Transport Trust

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I welcome Felix G. Rohatyn's suggestion of state banks to finance the repair and expansion of America's infrastructure (Op-Ed. Dec. 17).
He proposes that the Federal Government guarantee the municipal pension funds that would support his proposed state infrastructure banks. I believe the Federal Government should do more. Thanks to glasnost, it can. In the wake of the dramatic developments in Eastern Europe, Congress can and should change the way it treats the transportation trust funds for which it is steward.
Those funds, containing some $25 billion in user fees, were designed to maintain and improve the infrastructure, not to help paper over the budget deficit.
The trust fund dollars can provide significant seed money for infrastructure banks - either the national one I have on occasion proposed or the chain of local ones Mr. Rohatyn envisions. These monies would represent a truly national source of funding, complementing the local pension fund assets Mr. Rohatyn would tap.
If we cannot move our people and our goods, if we cannot dispose of our solid waste, how can this nation continue to exert economic leadership?
A recent study by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago indicates that each dollar invested in public works increases total labor productivity by approximately 73 cents.
The future of our highways, our bridges and our airports is a national problem. Their state of readiness should be a national priority. Surely they deserve to be among the first -if not the first - beneficiaries of the ''peace dividend'' from Pentagon budget cuts. Our nation's strength -its very economic survival - demands it.
 
JOSEPH M. GIGLIO
 New York, Dec. 20, 1989
The writer, senior vice president of the Chase Manhattan Corporation, was chairman of the National Council on Public Works Improvement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (68%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC WORKS; REPAIR SERVICES; BANKS AND BANKING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BUDGET CUTS (54%); 

PERSON: ROHATYN, FELIX G; GIGLIO, JOSEPH M FELIX G ROHATYN (92%); 



52 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Let Marketplace Repair Our Crumbling Nation;
Not With Pension Funds

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Felix G. Rohatyn's concept that public pension funds be used for state infrastructure banks (Op-Ed, Dec. 17) is flawed on three important grounds: (1) The Federal Government is swamped by its loan guarantees - $5 trillion worth according to the Comptroller General. In the wake of the savings and loan and Department of Housing and Urban Development bailouts, it's unrealistic to think it will go further and provide guarantees to state pension funds. (2) Government infrastructure borrowing is done in the tax-exempt market, at low rates of interest. On the other hand, pension funds have a fiduciary requirement to earn high rates of interest. Who will subsidize whom? (3) State infrastructure banks sound like state ''off-budget'' funds. They would allow governors to make spending decisions without legislative approval and public scrutiny.
Finally, if such a scheme is ever approved (and Mr. Rohatyn is not the first to suggest it), it will be, as always, the taxpayers who will foot the bill.
 
EDWARD V. REGAN
Comptroller, State of New York
 Albany, Dec. 20, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC WORKS PENSION FUNDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); TAX LAW (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CITIES (55%); 

PERSON: REGAN, EDWARD V (COMPTROLLER); ROHATYN, FELIX G FELIX G ROHATYN (84%); 



53 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: OBSERVER;
Is This Justice Necessary?

BYLINE: By Russell Baker

 BODY:
Surely the United States can't really want custody of General Noriega. It's understandable, of course, that President Bush should pretend he does. Having sent the Army to unhorse a tinpot Caesar, he is obliged to huff and puff about having him handed over to Yankee justice.
This much is consistent with his effort to persuade the world that sending strategic bombers and the 82d Airborne to Panama isn't much different from sending a bailiff to serve a summons on a recalcitrant felon. 
Since a Florida prosecutor had got the general indicted on drug charges, the President could insist he was just carrying out his oath to execute the laws of the United States. This was a noble position for the President to take, but would become awkward if he actually had to execute the law as it applied to Noriega.
The general's flight to sanctuary in the Vatican's embassy seemed such a happy event for Mr. Bush that some people suspected it had been slyly engineered by his agents on the scene.
Once the Vatican had the general, the ancient tradition of holy sanctuary might oblige it to arrange an exile in some convenient St. Helena. In any case the United States was shed of what could have been a monumental pain in the neck if Americans had got the cuffs on him.
To this point everything looked dandy. Tyranny was overthrown, democracy was restored, Bush had justified a military invasion (''Just Cause'') as a law-enforcement operation, and Noriega was somebody else's problem.
Then came the Army's clownish boom-box bombardment - American soldiers drawn up at the Vatican embassy in Panama, playing rock music full blast around the clock to make life hellish for the Pope's emissaries.
Suddenly we seemed to be in Dr. Strangelove country. Punishing the Vatican with heavy-metal rock? Could Gen. Buck Turgidson be behind this strategy? Or was he acting on orders from the big fellow in Air Force One? (''Hit those holy men with every decibel in freedom's arsenal!'') If the U.S. was still just pretending it wanted Noriega, the act had turned into farce so low that the audience was recoiling instead of laughing. But wait a minute - can it be? - is it possible George Bush really does want Noriega in a Miami courtroom?
The sensible aim of American foreign policy surely is to be rid of Noriega as soon as possible so we can get on to important things. In Panama the important thing might be getting the economy back on its feet. Throughout Latin America the important thing might be to subdue angry suspicions that the bad old gringo will never take his boot off the Latin neck.
It's hard to see how pictures from Miami of Noriega in chains could help us much in Latin America. Loathsome the general may be, but he is also a Latin American while the chains are Yankee iron, and the symbolism does not help our cause. Imagine, if you were a Latin American, how many questions you might start with the words ''And anyhow . . .''
''And anyhow, what entitles the United States to indict Latin leaders, then send armies to carry them off to North American courts?''
''And anyhow, loathsome though Noriega may be, hasn't the United States historically propped up Latin tyrants just as odious who played Washington's game?''
''And anyhow, isn't the true case against Noriega not that he was odious and loathsome, but only that he did not show respect for Washington's game?''
The prospect of Noriega on trial must cause shudders among North Americans familiar with our bizarre legal system. For instance, since American justice is justice delayed it's easy to imagine Noriega turned into a hero of sorts in south Florida long before a trial begins.
In most trials the public quickly loses sympathy for the case's victim and chooses up sides for and against the accused. In a strongly Hispanic community like south Florida, it might be hard to convict a Noriega who could portray himself as a martyr to Anglo justice.
Press freedoms are easily exploited to turn trials into circus. Human-interest stories of Noriega's childhood sufferings. Television appearances with Diane Sawyer, Barbara Walters, Connie Chung. Grocery tabloid scoops about his use of voodoo to contact his sainted mother.
A good trial sets the great American engines of claptrap running out of control. Look at the Oliver North case. While the public relishes the debate -hero or rat? - North entertains tiny tots with his lovable reading.
Thus is Frankenstein's monster built in the media age.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PANAMA (94%); HOLY SEE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DRUG TRAFFIC US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); ARMED FORCES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); FELONIES (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); POP & ROCK (68%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); BAKER, RUSSELL GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



54 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: For Dinkins and Fernandez, First Day on Job Is Brisk;
Mayor Seeks Advice On Budget Problems And Welfare Chief

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins began his first real day on the job yesterday with a sunrise appearance on national television, an impromptu breakfast and walk with senior aides and meetings with friends and advisers on how to handle the simmering stew of a city he inherited Monday.
''I won't ask, 'How'm I doing?' '' with the people of New York as Mayor Edward I. Koch often did, Mr. Dinkins told Bryant Gumbel of the NBC News ''Today'' program just after 7 A.M. ''I'll ask, 'How are you doing?' ''
The new Mayor spent much of the rest of the day posing variations on that question to clergymen, financiers, fellow politicians and his own top aides. But he disclosed few specifics of the talks, which centered mostly on the budget gap the city faces.
''I can give you no numbers right now,'' Mr. Dinkins told reporters at City Hall at midday, after meeting with his four deputy mayors and his budget director. 
Mr. Dinkins did say that of the several dozen posts he has yet to fill, one of his most urgent priorities is finding a new commissioner for the city's Human Resources Administration, the sprawling social services agency that oversees everything from day care for children to disbursement of welfare payments to programs for the elderly.
 
The 'Toughest Job' in New York
''I believe the Human Resources commissioner to have the toughest job in the city of New York, tougher than being mayor, tougher than being police commissioner, tougher than being chancellor of the Board of Education,'' Mr. Dinkins said. ''It's just tremendously important that we get the right person.''
He said his search committee had interviewed ''a tremendous number of people, I mean like 40'' and was still working. Some people close to the search have said it has been confused, with competing interests and candidates and no clear favorite. Some candidates are said to have taken themselves out of consideration.
Mr. Dinkins acknowledged that some people ''have perhaps determined they do not wish to serve,'' but said, ''We've got some candidates willing to serve.'' One senior Dinkins aide said later, ''The problem is finding the kind of person needed, not candidates.''
 
A Strolling News Conference
After his appearance on ''Today'' at Rockefeller Center, the new Mayor arrived at City Hall in lower Manhattan about 8 A.M., bumping into his First Deputy Mayor, Norman Steisel, and his Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero.
He promptly led them and some other aides and reporters on a brisk march across the street to Ellen's Coffee Cafe, which is to City Hall what Sardi's is to Broadway. There he ordered wheat toast, coffee and a large orange juice before strolling back across the street in a Trumanesque walking news conference.
Then came meetings with the City Council President, Andrew J. Stein, the new Comptroller, Elizabeth Holtzman, and the Council's Speaker, Peter F. Vallone. Lunch was a turkey sandwich on wheat at his desk.
Taking note of the revised charter that took effect as he was sworn in, Mr. Dinkins named Eric Lane, the executive director of the Charter Revision Commission that drafted the new government, to head a mayoral task force to oversee its implementation.
 
Ambivalence About Charter
Mr. Lane, who said he thought the temporary job would last no more than a year, will help advise the administration on the creation of the various new boards and panels that, together with the Council, will assume the functions of the Board of Estimate, which has been abolished.
Mr. Dinkins, who differed with many of the charter panel's ballot proposals last year but ultimately supported them on Election Day, was asked why he appointed Mr. Lane.
''He won,'' he said with a laugh. ''The people in their wisdom have spoken; we've adopted a different process, and I see my job as trying to implement the process that the people have said they wish. And who better to assist in that cause than the fellow who helped draft it in the first place?''
But the Mayor also seemed to show anew his ambivalent feelings about the Charter. As a member of the Board of Estimate, he had argued until last spring that the board should be preserved. By midsummer, he began saying publicly that he could not conceive of opposing the proposed charter that abolished the board. Yesterday, he said he had favored preserving the board, ''even as a candidate for mayor.''
 
More Economic Advice
Later, Mr. Dinkins met to talk ''about social awareness-type problems'' with the Rev. James A. Forbes, senior minister of the Riverside Church, Bishop Francis Mugavero of Brooklyn and Dr. Mathilde Krim, the internationally recognized AIDS expert.
Still later, after a talk with his council of economic advisers, which includes Felix G. Rohatyn, the chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, David Rockefeller, the retired head of the Chase Manhattan Bank, and Joseph Flom, the lawyer, Mr. Dinkins said only, ''I never talk with these men that I don't come away with some insights.''
Asked what he had come to the meeting to say, Mr. Rockefeller smiled and said, ''I came to listen.'' Mr. Rohatyn said, ''I think this is a very fine man, David Dinkins, and I think that's very important.''
As Mr. Dinkins found his way around his new office, the government bureaucracy went on, even in departments whose heads resigned before the end of the Koch administration. The Human Resources Administration, for example, has been headed by an Acting Commissioner, Doby L. Flowers, since William J. Grinker left on Nov. 19. But the Transportation Commissioner, Ross Sandler, who is a month shy of his fourth anniversary in office and who is a candidate for reappointment, remained at the helm.
 
Orphans of Transition
Mr. Dinkins said he hoped to fill posts like health commissioner, housing commissioner, sanitation commissioner and environmental protection commissioner as soon as possible. But he said he was not distressed by the pace of his appointments.
The Mayor acknowledged that Woodrow A. Myers Jr., the Indiana State Health Commissioner, was one of the candidates under consideration to be the city's health commissioner. He called him ''an imposing figure of great ability,'' but would neither confirm nor deny reports that he had been chosen.
Perhaps the strangest orphans of the transition, at least temporarily, are the staff members from Mr. Dinkins's office as Manhattan Borough President who have been told they will have jobs in the new administration, but have not been told which ones.
Those aides had to leave their offices in the Municipal Building to make way for the new borough chief, Ruth W. Messinger, and reported to mayoral offices in the old Tweed Courthouse at 52 Chambers Street, helping with the transition or waiting for word.
''They're there and they have things to do,'' said Bill Lynch, the Deputy Mayor for Intergovernmental Relations. ''Placing people is a big job.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); CITY COUNCIL (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS BUDGETS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); POLICE FORCES (79%); POLITICS (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); PURDUM, TODD S BRYANT CHARLES GUMBEL (57%); 



55 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1619 words

HEADLINE: Local Military Contractors Cautiously Brace for Peace

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
As relations warm with the Soviet Union and talk grows in Washington of smaller defense budgets, military contractors in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut and communities dependent on military bases are girding themselves for what might become leaner times.
Industry analysts and economists, however, caution that no drastic job cutbacks are expected soon among the region's 10 largest military contractors, which employ about 100,000 people in the three states.
They note that some companies, like Pratt & Whitney of East Hartford, Conn., the jet-engine maker, long ago diversified into non-military products. They also point out that contracts for some weapons, like the $2.3 billion Trident submarines built at the Electric Boat shipyard in Groton, Conn., run into the mid-1990s.
 
Hard to Cut Off the Spigot
''You can expect reductions, but it is really difficult to cut off the spigot,'' said G. Ronald Hertenstein, research director for Forecast International, a defense and aerospace analysis firm in Newtown, Conn. 
The outlook for the region's 57 military installations is less clear, because analysts are unsure whether demobilization in Europe would speed Defense Department plans to shut down bases.
Some analysts believe that budget cutbacks will trim military installations next year more than than expensive weapons contracts. But they also note that base closings can generate intense opposition.
Overall, about 60,000 military personnel and 42,000 civilians are stationed at bases in the three states, ranging from Fort Drum and the Staten Island Homeport in New York to Fort Monmouth and McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey to the Navy's submarine base in Groton, Conn.
 
'Bases Were Going to Close'
Last year, Fort Dix, in Wrightstown, N.J., was turned into a National Guard and reserve training facility. It lost about 25 percent of its 4,100 permanent military and civilian personnel and the 8,000 Army trainees billeted there.
''Bases were going to close as a budget priority, peace or no peace,'' said Steven R. Malin, an economist with The Conference Board, a non-profit business research organization based in Manhattan.
Overall, about 800,000 jobs in the three states are tied, directly and indirectly, to military contracts, subcontracts and bases. The states also rank among the top ten for receiving military contract dollars, receiving more than $16 billion in contracts in the 1988 fiscal year.
Economists warn that any analysis would be premature until President Bush presents his budget to Congress this month.
But Irwin L. Kellner, chief economist for the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company in Manhattan, predicted that, for now, the industry will be hurt less than Wall Street, which he said has lost 27,000 jobs since 1987 and which he expects to lose 10,000 more within 12 months.
''Certain companies and certain geographic areas may feel a pinch, but not as much as you might think,'' he said. ''Defense spending is not going down to zero.''
Dr. Kellner said that diversification has already taken hold in many defense-dependent areas, like Long Island, where tourism adds $7.9 billion to the local economy each year, while military contracting adds only about $3.8 billion.
Even Grumman Aircraft in Bethpage, L.I., one of the area's largest military contractors, has started diversifying, making commercial aviation parts and data systems.
The company, which is widely thought to be the most vulnerable to defense cuts in the region, also plans to turn almost half its 500-acre headquarters into a shopping center, offices and a 300-room hotel.
 
Depending on One Customer
''It didn't take any foresight to realize it isn't wise to be dependent on a single customer,'' said a Grumman spokesman, Sandy Jones.
Analysts also believe that the region's strong economy, particularly its low unemployment, will soften any cuts. In Groton, the worker shortage is so acute that Electric Boat has 1,000 unfilled jobs and recently shifted 550 jobs to its shipyard in Charleston, S.C., where recruiting is easier.
''The labor shortage cushions the blow,'' said Rosemary Scanlon, chief economist for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. ''Over the course of three to five years it will not be that severe.''
Such optimism is not universal. Some lawmakers, particularly those representing areas with large military contractors, view the possibility of budget cuts with alarm.
''There will be a significant impact,'' said Representative Sam Gejdenson, a Democrat from Bozrah, Conn., who represents the Groton-New London area, which is heavily dependent on Electric Boat. ''The question is how gradual it will be, and whether we will develop a response.''
Connecticut is the most defense-dependent of the three states. With over $4.9 billion in defense contracts, it has more than all but seven other states, and its $1,531 per capita in military spending makes it second in the nation after Virginia.
Its leading contractor, with $2.3 billion in contracts, is the United Technologies Corporation of Hartford, which operates the Pratt & Whitney jet engine plant in East Hartford, the Sikorsky Aircraft helicopter plant in Stratford; the Hamilton Standard propeller and aerospace controls plant in Windsor Locks, and the Norden Systems radar and electronics factory in Norwalk. Combined, the companies have 49,000 employees.
 
Butter, Not Star Wars
United Technologies officials believe that many of their military products are bread and butter items like Sikorsky helicopters and Pratt & Whitney fighter jet engines, rather than high-technology research projects in the Strategic Defense Initiative, which are widely thought to be more vulnerable to budget cuts.
They feel confident that the company's diversification will help offset any sharp loss of contracts. At Pratt & Whitney, for example, only 35 percent of its contracts come from the military.
They also hope new relations between the United States and the Soviet Union will lead to more foreign sales. Pratt & Whitney officials are looking to Aeroflot, the huge Soviet airline, as a potential customer.
 
Overseas Sales Growing
Much the same is true at Sikorsky, which laid off 350 workers in July and 150 last month. Overseas sales are expected to help make up for any cut in military spending. Last year 25 percent of its sales were foreign, compared with 6 percent in 1984.
''We derive only about 25 percent of our overall sales from the government,'' said Dan Harrison, a company spokesman. ''That is down from a high of about 75 percent a decade ago.''
The second largest defense contractor in the state, with $1.5 billion in contracts, is Electric Boat, with 17,500 workers. It will rely on time more than diversification.
The company, a subsidiary of General Dynamics of St. Louis, has 16 submarines under construction and recently got a contract for its 17th Trident and several attack submarines.
 
Muttering 'The P-Word'
Company officials and union leaders, who often refer to the prospects for peace as ''the P-word,'' believe the orders will keep the shipyard busy for at least five more years.
''We still have quite a backlog of work, and right now I don't see it disappearing,'' said Joseph W. Messier, president of the Metal Trades Council, which represents 8,400 Electric Boat workers.
In New York, military spending is less concentrated, although the state ranks fourth in it behind California, Virginia and Texas.
On Thursday, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo announced the formation of a panel to help local companies that lose military contracts shift into other products.
 
Tomcat Orders Dwindle
Grumman, with $2.8 billion in contracts, accounted for more than a third of all the military dollars won by New York companies in 1988. Although it has pared its payroll to 18,400 from 25,000 three years ago, company officials are not forecasting many future layoffs, even though the Navy's need for $50 million F-14 Tomcat fighter planes has dwindled.
''The company has been diversifying for at least 10 years,'' Mr. Jones said. ''Our backlog today is the most diversified it has ever been. Only about half of it is with our traditional customer. And it is not a result of what has happened with perestroika.''
The next four largest contractors in New York receive far less money and are scattered throughout the state. They are General Electric plants in Syracuse, Utica and Binghamton, where equipment for radar, aircraft electronics and nuclear reactors for submarines are built; Unisys, which builds navigation and electronics systems in Great Neck, L.I.; Black River Construction, a consortium expanding Fort Drum near Watertown, and IBM, which develops communications equipment in Owego.
New York has 36 military installations with 27,040 military personnel and 19,484 civilians. Connecticut has six installations with 7,423 military and 5,040 civilians. The prospect of base closings is perhaps most troubling, however, in New Jersey, which is still smarting from the Fort Dix reductions. The state has 15 installations with 25,127 military and 18,623 civilians.
The state ranks tenth in the nation in military contracts.
The state's leading contractor, with $976 million in contracts, is General Electric, which operates a satellite plant in Princeton. Other large contractors include ITT in Nutley; Singer Co. in Little Falls and Allied-Signal of Morris Township.
''There is going to be an impact,'' said Michael Ascolese, a spokesman for Allied-Signal, which received about $110 million in defense contracts last year and produces avionics equipment in Teterboro, N.J. ''But it is not going to be an immediate drastic impact.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 24, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 3 about the effect of Pentagon cutbacks on New York, New Jersey and Connecticut referred incorrectly to the status of Fort Dix, near Wrightstown, N.J. Under a Defense Department plan, the Army is to stop using the fort for basic training by 1995, but reductions in permanent personnel or trainees have yet to occur.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PRATT & WHITNEY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEFENSE CONTRACTS DEFENSE CONTRACTING (92%); BUDGETS (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); TRENDS (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); ARMIES (78%); NAVIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (76%); CITIES (74%); SHIPBUILDING (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CLOSINGS (71%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK LAWRENCE W KELLNER (51%); LAWRENCE W KELLNER (51%); 



56 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: A Deficit of $65 Million Is Seen in Connecticut

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Jan. 2

 BODY:
Budget officials said today that falling sales-tax revenues and rising welfare costs will leave Connecticut with a budget deficit of $65 million for the fiscal year ending June 30.
The announcement, coming six months after the state enacted the largest tax increase in its history to solve last year's problems, erased the hopes of state officials who had hoped to avoid budget pain in an election year.
Gov. William A. O'Neill, flanked at a news conference by dozens of commissioners and department heads called to the Capitol for a budget briefing, said that in response to the projections, he had ordered an immediate 2 percent cut in appropriations for most agencies, a reduction of 2,000 state jobs over the next 18 months, and curtailment of overtime, travel expenses and consulting contracts.
Mr. O'Neill said the appropriation cuts would save about $20 million over the next six months, while the job cutback would save perhaps $80 million a year once it was fully in effect in 1991. But he said that with continued weakness in consumer spending, sales-tax revenues - which contribute two-thirds of the state budget - could fall further still. 
 
'Everything Is on the Table'
''If the income isn't there, the outgo can't be there, either,'' Mr. O'Neill said.
Mr. O'Neill said that ''as of this moment'' he did not intend to ask for further tax increases when he presents his budget to the General Assembly next month. But he stressed repeatedly that ''everything is on the table'' as the budget situation unfolds.
Budget officials said the numbers have spiraled downward in just the last few months. The last projection, for example, a month ago, called for a $3.2 million surplus for the fiscal year ending June 30. Three months ago, the projected surplus was $92.9 million.
The General Assembly's Office of Fiscal Analysis has projected a deficit of $51.5 million in the current fiscal year and a shortfall of $417 million in the next.
 
Long-Term Care for Elderly
The state's Secretary of Policy and Management, Anthony V. Milano, said the projected $65 million deficit reflects nearly $55 million in higher-than-expected Medicaid payments, particularly for long-term care for the elderly.
He said that $25 million more in housing and energy costs have resulted from a recent court order requiring the state to provide long-term shelter to homeless families, who were previously put up in motels for a maximum of 100 days.
And the sales tax, raised to 8 percent from 7.5 percent on July 1 and the highest state sales-tax rate in the nation, has brought in $27 million less than expected. Corporate income taxes have brought $25 million less. Connecticut has a tax on dividends and interest but no broad-based income tax.
Mr. Milano said that the effects of cutting 2,000 state jobs will not be felt immediately, and will also be partially obscured by an early-retirement package that induced about 3,000 workers to leave their jobs over the last six months.
 
Jobs Will Be Eliminated
About 1,000 of the new job cuts, for example, will be applied to jobs that are now unfilled because of the retirement plan, he said. The remaining 1,000 will be eliminated as they open up because of future retirements, transfers and deaths, he added.
Mr. O'Neill said he hoped residents would not be hurt by the employment cuts, but they probably would be inconvenienced, if only by longer lines for things like driver-license renewals. Emergency services, he stressed, will be maintained.
Mr. O'Neill, whose popularity dropped last year after he signed into law almost $900 million in higher taxes, has vowed to run for re-election to a third four-year term this fall if his health permits. Asked whether the new numbers and the likelihood of another difficult legislative session gave him any reason to reconsider his decision, Mr. O'Neill responded that he was more determined than ever.
Mr. O'Neill's Republican challengers, who already are using last year's tax increases as a main element of their attacks, also seemed determined to use the new budget figures for all they're worth politically.
United States Representative John G. Rowland, for example, generally said to be the Republican front-runner, said in a statement that he thought the budget news had ''dashed the optimism and hope that Connecticut residents brought to the start of this new decade.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); FORECASTS; TAXATION; SALES TAX; WELFARE (US) TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); OVERTIME (74%); MEDICAID (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); FAMILY (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); AGING (65%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; O'NEILL, WILLIAM A (GOV) WILLIAM A O'NEILL (94%); 



57 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: State of State: Proposals by the Dozen

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 2

 BODY:
The annual State of the State address, which Gov. Mario M. Cuomo will deliver here on Wednesday, is often described as a road map for the coming year, filled with gubernatorial directives and proposals. But it also has its share of dead ends.
In last year's State of the State Message, for example, Mr. Cuomo described almost 300 different matters as requiring attention, either through action by a state agency or vote of the Legislature.
And despite action in many areas, at least half the ideas the Governor described last year are undone or in what state spokesmen call pilot stages. 
The incipient programs include major proposals like creating special residences for families with a member suffering from AIDS and more modest initiatives like an educational campaign on the safety of eating fish from the ocean near New York. Three agencies - the Departments of Health, Environmental Conservation and State -are still working to coordinate the fish campaign, although a brochure has been published, spokesmen said.
 
The Length of the List
Many of the Governor's proposals that did not come to pass fell victim to disagreements between him and an often contrary Legislature. Ideas he cites in the State of the State Message often emerge as bills that his office submits to lawmakers; of 167 such bills offered last year, 57 became law, according to figures supplied by Mr. Cuomo's office.
Administration officials point out that the Governor always proposes far more than he knows can be accomplished in a year and therefore does not worry about what will not get done.
''It's really an aspiration, not an expectation,'' Mr. Cuomo's spokesman, Gary Fryer, said of the address. ''If any Governor actually accomplished everything in the State of the State,'' he said, ''then he or she should be impeached, because obviously that person wouldn't be trying hard enough.''
Some of the Governor's ideas have perennially gone down to defeat. But he continues to propose them anyway, often using partisan terms to fault Republicans for the lack of progress.
 
Declining Success Rate
The Governor has almost always called for a new penalty of life without parole, his alternative to the death penalty, for some murderers and for a bill to divest the state's holdings in companies that do business with South Africa. Lawmakers have rejected both.
The Governor's success rate last year was unusually low. He gained passage of about a third of the bills he sent up while in most previous years the rate was 50 to 60 percent, his counsel, Evan A. Davis, said.
Last year it sometimes seemed that the Legislature's highest priority was to adjourn by early summer, and in the press of time, Mr. Cuomo proposed dozens of less controversial measures that were simply not taken up.
Still, many measures were left hanging at the close of the session, and the Governor's staff was criticized for not pushing to have them resolved. ''For a variety of reasons, some of which would have to be traced to the Governor himself, a lot of good ideas never seemed to get a serious hearing last year,'' said Lee Wasserman, executive director of the Environmental Planning Lobby.
Among the proposals Mr. Wasserman cited were a tax to combat land speculation in the Adirondacks and a bill to allow citizens to sue suspected polluters.
The proposal for the AIDS residence is still getting off the ground. Officials have selected a site in the Highbridge section of the Bronx for up to 40 families. But the opening of the center is still at least a year away, a spokesman for the Social Services Department, Paul Elisha, said.
 
Battle Against Inflation
In some cases, it is difficult to say whether certain of the Governor's goals were achieved. For instance, citing the need for fiscal restraint, he repeatedly called for an increase in the state budget that would be below the inflation rate.
The ultimate increase in spending voted by the Legislature was 5.1 percent. But it is hard to say whether that will represent less than the inflation rate.
The national inflation rate is 4.7 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and there is no official rate for New York State. But aides to Mr. Cuomo, pointing to high inflation in the New York City metropolitan region, estimate the annual inflation rate to be ''somewhere between 5.2 and 5.3 percent,'' said Anne M. Doyle, a spokeswoman for the budget division. Using that standard, the administration can maintain that New York met its goal.
Roadblocks from the Legislature are hardly surprising, especially because the State Senate is controlled by Republicans.
''Are we consciously giving the Governor a hard time?'' asked Senator Joseph L. Bruno, Republican of Saratoga Springs and a frequent critic of Mr. Cuomo. ''Oh no. Don't say that. Let's just say we often have different priorities.''
Beyond that split and the rush to adjourn, some officials - Democrats, mainly - said new ideas moved more slowly last year because there was new leadership in the Republican-controlled Senate.
''You have to take that into account,'' James A. Yates, counsel to Assembly Speaker Mel Miller, said. ''The Governor's people threw a lot of bills out there. But I think there was more of a wait-and-see attitude on the Republican side.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Assembly chamber in Albany was prepared yesterday for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's annual State of the State Message by Alfred Lettieri, left, and Dennis Mauro. Mr. Cuomo is expected to propose the largest environmental bond issue in state history in the message today. (NYT/David Jennings)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION GOVERNORS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MURDER (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (53%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MARIO M CUOMO (93%); 



58 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Bronx Councilman in Line For Top Post on Land Use

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

 BODY:
As the New York City Council begins assuming greater powers under a new charter, its leadership has hired staff members, raised salaries and shaken up its most important committess.
The maneuvering is expected to continue today with the naming of Councilman Jerry L. Crispino of the Bronx to head the newly created Land Use Committee, which will regulate virtually all public and private land use in the city. At the same time, Herbert E. Berman of Brooklyn is to replace Councilman Michael DeMarco of the Bronx as head of the Finance Committee.
Traditionally, City Council committees have been divided among the boroughs, and it was fairly certain that Mr. DeMarco would lose his position once it was decided that Mr. Crispino would take over Land Use. Mr. DeMarco has often feuded with Peter F. Vallone, the City Council Speaker, who assigns committee posts. 
''The Bronx couldn't have both,'' Mr. Vallone said, adding that his criteria for making assignments was ''ability, seniority and geography.''
''In all appointments that you make, that has to be taken into consideration,'' he said.
 
Some Civic Groups Upset
The decision to appoint Mr. Crispino has upset several civic groups and advocates for low-income housing. The groups questioned Mr. Crispino's experience for the post, campaign contributions that he has received from the real-estate industry and his ability to devote time to what most expect to be an all-consuming assignment. Mr. Crispino also has a law practice.
Records of the New York City Campaign Contribution Board show that Mr. Crispino received $240 last year from the real-estate developer Donald J. Trump. The Councilman said he also received a contribution from the Real Estate Board, ''and probably from my next-door neighbor.''
''If anyone is going to give me $200 or $300 and think that will have any influence on me, they're dead wrong,'' Mr. Crispino said. ''I've been a councilman for 15 years, and no one has ever questioned my integrity.''
 
One Group Disappointed
But Christoper Meyer, legislative director of the New York Public Interest Research Group, said his organization was disappointed with Mr. Crispino's selection.
''The chairman is going to have a pretty full plate, and the position needs a full-time legislator,'' he said. ''This is a very important committee, arguably the most important.''
The new committee will have three subcommittees because ''land use will involve almost half the work of the Council,'' Mr. Vallone said.
He would not confirm the members of what he called the ''Land Use team.'' But some Council members said that in addition to Mr. Crispino as chairman, the committee would include Robert J. Dryfoos of Manhattan, Walter L. McCaffrey of Queens and Priscilla Wooten of Brooklyn, each of whom will head a subcommittee.
Mr. McCaffrey, a former Community Board member and an important part of the Queens Democratic organization, has served on the Council's committees on aging, parks, public safety and transportation. Ms. Wooten has been a member of Council committees on civil service, consumer affairs, health, parks and youth.
On Sept. 1 the Land Use Committee will assume from the Board of Estimate power over all land-use decisions in the five boroughs, likely making its chairman one of the most influential figures in the city. Land-use decisions are often the most politically charged and difficult matters that face municipal government.
 
Concern About Experience
''That is probably the most critical appointment that will be made for chair of a city committee,'' said Bonnie Brower, executive director of the Association of Neighborhood and Housing Development. Of Mr. Crispino, she said:
''He has not served on the housing and development committee. He has not served on economic development. He has not served on environmental protection. As far as I can determine, he hasn't served on any committee or been involved in any issue that would prepare him for taking the lead in one of the most critical areas facing the city.''
Mr. Vallone said the concerns about Mr. Crispino were unfounded.
''He was formerly a deputy commissioner for the City Department of Real Estate,'' Mr. Vallone said, ''so he has the credentials. But no Council member can have the experience for this job, because it's a new experiment.''
He said Mr. Crispino, who is 59 years old and has been on the Council since 1974, was an ideal candidate because he was ''very deliberate and a very open person to every point of view.''
Mr. Crispino has served as chairman of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Public Safety.
 
Pledge to Avoid Conflicts
The Bronx Councilman said part of his law practice included some real-estate matters. He represents people selling one- and two-family houses and occasionally multiple dwellings, he said.
And while he said that he would not close his law office, he wrote to Mr. Vallone saying, ''I and my associate have not in the past, nor will we in the future, represent real-estate developers or others likely to have business before the new Land Use Committee.''
Questions have also been raised about Mr. Dryfoos, the expected new head of a subcommittee on zoning and planning, and his work as a lawyer in co-operative apartment conversions. Mr. Dryfoos said yesterday that he would divest himself of any work involving co-op conversions.
The committee changes will be announced today during the Council's meeting. The full Council will have to vote on the appointments, but Mr. Vallone is believed to be firmly in control.
But Mr. Berman, who is expected to replace Mr. DeMarco as finance chairman, said, ''I've been around too long to expect anything until it happens.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: City Councilman Jerry L. Crispino, who is to head the newly created Land Use Committee. (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (90%); LAND USE COMMITTEE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CITY COUNCILS; CITY CHARTERS; LAND USE POLICIES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOUSING CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (86%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); POLITICS (68%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (66%); PUBLIC HOUSING (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON; CRISPINO, JERRY L (COUNCILMAN); BERMAN, HERBERT E (COUNCILMAN); DEMARCO, MICHAEL (COUNCILMAN) DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



59 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Lessons

BYLINE: By Edward B. Fiske

 BODY:
American grade schoolers can be forgiven if they occasionally confuse their classrooms with aviaries.
Teachers routinely assign them to reading and math groups, designating them as robins, bluebirds or cardinals - euphemisms for smart, average and not-so-swift.
The ornithological approach to classroom management is a form of ''tracking,'' or putting students in classes with peers of similar ability. It is a practice notable for its pervasiveness and for the absence of scholarly evidence that it works. 
Last June the Carnegie Council on Adolescent Development called for an end to tracking in middle schools, characterizing it as ''one of the most divisive and damaging school practices in existence.'' A growing number of educators agree that tracking is, indeed, for the birds.
Tracking was the 19th century's answer to the built-in conflict of public education in a democratic society: how to achieve academic distinction while trying to teach everyone. The Solomonic solution was to differentiate, with rigorous courses for those deemed able to handle them and watered-down alternatives for the rest.
The most extreme tracking occurs in high schools, where students are routed into academic, general or vocational programs that become, in effect, schools within schools. Elementary schools usually maintain heterogeneous classes for most instruction, sorting students for only reading and math. Middle schools use variations on both.
The theory of tracking seems sound enough. Common sense suggests that students do best in a comfortable environment where the teaching is geared to their level. Tracking means that teachers do not have to ''teach to the middle'' at the risk of confusing slow students and boring the brightest.
In practice, though, tracking does not always seem so wonderful. Robert Slavin of Johns Hopkins University recently surveyed research in which students were randomly assigned to heterogeneous and tracked classes and concluded that ''as far as achievement is concerned, the effects for both high- and low-achieving students is neutral.''
Adam Gamoran, a sociologist at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, questions Mr. Slavin's reading of the evidence, arguing that high-achievers gain by tracking and low-achievers lose. ''The overall result is no change, but the resulting inequalities are considerable,'' he said.
In a 1986 article in the education journal Phi Delta Kappan, Jeannie Oakes, a Rand Corporation social scientist, argued that the students in the lower tracks - that is to say, most students - ''suffer clear and consistent disadvantages'' from the practice, including low self-esteem and low expectations that become self-fulfilling prophecies.
A major reason, she said, is that the top tracks get the best teaching.
At the Niedig Elementary School in Quakertown, Pa., near Allentown, the teachers scrapped reading and math groups as counterproductive. ''It was fine to have the teacher concentrate on a small group of students for a while,'' the District Superintendent, George E. Taylor, said. ''But while this was happening, the other groups ended up with worksheets and busywork.''
Albert Shanker, president of the American Federation of Teachers, argues that, given its deep roots, tracking will never be eliminated from ''didactic'' classrooms where teachers do most of the talking. But why not reframe the issue by getting away from ''didactic'' classrooms?
A number of solutions have been proposed. Mr. Slavin's research has produced abundant evidence that cooperative learning - in which small groups of students work together on problems - is highly effective. ''Say you're working on solving simultaneous equations,'' he said. ''The slow students do well, and the high achievers, who probably do a lot of the explaining, get a deeper grasp of the material.''
Schedules can be changed. In Bolton Landing, N.Y., on Lake George, all high school students take the same high-level Regents courses in English and social studies for five periods a week. Then a sixth period is devoted to individualized instruction - enrichment for the top students and remedial work for those having trouble. ''Getting rid of tracking has made for a much more harmonious social climate in the school,'' the Superintendent, Dalton F. Marks, said.
Computer-assisted instruction offers another alternative by allowing students in the same classroom to work at different paces. Steve Anderson, principal of the Cougar Valley Elementary School in Silverdale, Wash., said this could solve the problem of what to do with bright but socially immature students who typically skip a grade or two. ''Now you can meet their intellectual needs without sacrificing social ones,'' he said.
In short, birds of a feather need not flock together - at least in classrooms.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (62%); NIEDIG ELEMENTARY SCHOOL (57%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BIRDS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ORNITHOLOGY (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); 

PERSON: FISKE, EDWARD B ROBERT SLAVIN (71%); 



60 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Reaction Mixed to Certification Plan

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 2

 BODY:
An agreement among seven Northeast states that will ease restrictions for teachers who want to cross state lines for a job is getting a mixed reaction from educators.
Under the agreement, reached last month and due to take effect in April, teachers certified in any of the six New England states and New York will be eligible for a ''regional credential'' that allows them to teach most subjects in any of the other states. In most cases, the credential will be valid for two years, during which teachers must fulfill any unmet certification requirements in the new state.
Many educators say the arrangement will allow teachers to move in response to supply and demand for jobs and will attract new teachers to the region. In addition to New York, the participants are Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont. Critics note that not all the states are fully cooperating in the agreement, and they say the credential does not address other obstacles to teacher mobility. For example, often teachers who move cannot begin a new job until they have met teaching certification requirements in their new state, which means facing a period of unemployment. 
 
'A Good Sell' for Teachers
Susan Tave Zelman, an associate commissioner for the Massachusetts Department of Education, said the new regional compact is ''a good sell'' for attracting teachers to Northeast states. ''You say, 'You come here to get certified, and you'll be eligible for a regional teaching certificate for six other states,' '' she said.
Rosanne K. Bacon, president of the Massachusetts Teachers Association, said the compact may also force states within the region to raise teachers' salaries.
The two states not fully cooperating are Maine, which will give teachers only one year instead of two to fulfill state certification requirements, and Connecticut, which will accept the regional credential only for teachers of industrial arts.
Betty J. Sternberg, a Connecticut education official, said, ''We have what we consider to be very rigorous certification standards which our board and commissioner do not want in any way to tamper with.'' She added that because the pay scale in her state is one of the highest in the United States, Connecticut has had no problem attracting teachers.
The bigger sticking point is that the regional plan does not preserve seniority-based salaries and pensions.
 
'Back to a Beginning Pay'
''Right now one of the biggest barriers to teachers is that they can have 15 years of experience and when they move they have to go all the way back to a beginning salary,'' said Bella Rosenberg, assistant to the president of the American Federation of Teachers, a national teachers union.
Paul L. Devlin, president of the Massachusetts Federation of Teachers, called the regional credential ''a good beginning,'' but said teachers must be able to preserve accrued pensions.
Last summer Rhode Island became the first state to pass a law allowing teachers to take accrued pension money with them when they move in or out of state, provided the other state involved has a reciprocal agreement. So far, no other state has passed such a policy, although similar legislation is pending in Massachusetts and under study in several other states.
David P. Crandall, executive director of the federally supported Regional Laboratory for Educational Improvement of the Northeast and Islands, which helped develop the credential, acknowledged there are shortcomings. ''I think what we're seeing here is the realities of what happens when you jump onto a moving train,'' he said. ''It may not be ideal, but when you're working with seven independent jurisidictions, it's pretty significant.''
The Northeast Regional Credential was formed by the seven states as part of a larger project, the Northeast Common Market, undertaken two years ago in an attempt to study and improve education in the region.
Other states, including New Jersey and Pennsylvania, have expressed an interest in joining the compact, said Rick Basom, a program director at the Regional Laboratory.

GRAPHIC: Graph of of teachers' starting salaries and average salaries (soruce: Compiled by the American Federation of Teachers research departmetn from date suplied by state departments of education.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS TEACHERS ASSOCIATION (89%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; LICENSES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); 



61 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 18, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: The Pop Life

BYLINE: By Stephen Holden

 BODY:
Among the innovations the 1980's brought to pop music were the rise of MTV, home videos, the compact disk and rap. But what comes next? The heads of three major record companies were invited to speculate on what the 90's might hold for pop music technologically, stylistically and in the techniques for breaking - record company parlance for commercially establishing - performers.
Bob Krasnow, the chairman of Elektra Records, signed Tracy Chapman to the label and is known for his progressive tastes. Tommy Mottola, the president of CBS Records, oversaw the company's economic turnaround in the fall. The turnaround was led by the Boston group New Kids on the Block, whose three albums have sold more than 14 million copies. Clive Davis, who started Arista Records 15 years ago, helped pilot the careers of Barry Manilow and Whitney Houston and signed Milli Vanilli to the label. 
Here are their reflections and predictions.
 
Bob Krasnow
''We're in for a very explosive decade and a very positive one,'' said Mr. Krasnow of Elektra Records. ''Going into the 90's, the main forces at work on music are technology, the world's ability to communicate with itself and the fact that Rome is burning.
''The record industry has always been a leader in mirroring the social qualities and inequities of life. The Watergate years followed by the Reagan years of uncaring have set up an incredible dam of feeling that is now just beginning to break. People will become much more involved in improving both the ecological and the social environment, and the music will reflect that.
''I've always thought that it was possible to dance and think at the same time, and in the 1990's that possibility will become reality.
''At the same time, we have the emerging climate of world music. It's no longer so strange to hear a record in a foreign language anymore. At the same time that we've been finding more receptivity in the world market for American music, we're importing music from places like Bulgaria, France and Brazil that either celebrates a great ethnic tradition or a life style, like the Gipsy Kings.
''Quincy Jones was right when he said that rap is the jazz of the 90's. These records are very hip and draw on a lot of jazz as well as on James Brown. And from a message point of view, there's certainly a lot going on.
''Music video should represent a third of our dollar volume by the mid-90's. We've had a lot of success with home videos featuring Motley Crue, Metallica and Anita Baker. By the mid-90's, you should be able to buy a video in a compact-disk form and be able to play it either as a video or as an album.''
 
Tommy Mottola
''CBS has been looking for alternative ways of breaking new artists,'' said Mr. Mottola of CBS Records. ''What we want to do is to take exceptionally talented people we feel have staying power and break them, although it may take two or three albums to do it. We're not interested in one-hit wonders. The result will be more diverse kinds of developing artists, whose music is not necessarily linked to Top 40 radio formats.
''Touring is going to become a major factor once again in breaking new artists. The club scene will also become super important, whether the clubs be jazz, rhythm-and-blues or rock-oriented.
''Rap is going to be around for a while, though in a couple of years it may develop into a pop hybrid that involves more music and singing and less pure rapping.
''Home video will become a much bigger area with consumers. We already see retail stores in which home video takes up half the floor space and prerecorded music the other half. I don't know what will happen with the music-video channels. Just as we are not going to be led by radio programmers' tastes, we're not going to look to video channels for trends, but rather present artists we think make great music and have a lot to say.
''Acoustic music is going to grow and develop. It's been refreshing to hear music as pure as that made by Tracy Chapman and the Indigo Girls. They've helped make audiences aware of the quality of the song and, in particular, the lyrics. Lyrics in the 90's are going to mean everything, since people will be looking not only for new rhythms but for important messages. Though I don't have a crystal ball, I think the 90's could be the most inspired decade for pop in the last 30 to 40 years.''
 
Clive Davis
''The record business itself is healthy, and I think it will continue to grow,'' said Mr. Davis of Arista Records. ''The technology of the compact disk and the portability of the cassette have insured that. Music video has been very valuable as a promotional item, and I think it's here to stay. Long-form videos have shown that they have commercial appeal and that they are no threat to the compact cassette.
''Right now, pop music really has no stylistic direction. Most of the music is for entertainment purposes. The predominant sound is a combination of pop bands and heavy metal.
''In the 1990's, I'm looking forward to new leaders in the sense of the Dylans, the Springsteens, the Princes or a new Joni Mitchell. I am encouraged that music had room for someone like Tracy Chapman, who was like a breath of fresh air. But we need more artists like her to provide meaning to the music beyond entertainment.
''When I think of all the changes that have gone on this past year in Eastern Europe, I think of the Patti Smith song ''People Have the Power,'' which we put out last year, but that didn't achieve the momentum it should have. It may be one of the most telling songs of the last two years because it so aptly describes what's going on. People do have the power. I would be disappointed if the pop lyrics of the 90's didn't have some of that pungency.

GRAPHIC: photo: Commenting on what pop music holds for the 1990's were, clockwise from above, Tommy Mottola of CBS Records; Bob Krasnow of Elektra, and Clive Davis of Arista.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); FRANCE (57%); BULGARIA (50%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: QUINCY JONES ENTERTAINMENT (51%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); FORECASTS MUSIC INDUSTRY (93%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); POP & ROCK (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN; MOTTOLA, TOMMY; DAVIS, CLIVE; KRASNOW, BOB WHITNEY HOUSTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



62 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
Markets
Investors greeted the new year with a burst of enthusiasm that catapulted the Dow to its highest level ever. The average rose 56.95 points, or 2.07 percent, to 2,810.15. [Page D1.] 
The dollar rose sharply, forcing the Fed to intervene by selling dollars to stem its rally against the Japanese yen. [D16.]
Treasury securities prices dipped in light trading. [D14.] Yields on C.D.'s and money market accounts were unchanged. [D4.]
Orange juice futures prices rose sharply after processors in Florida and Brazil announced cash price increases. [D16.]
 
 
 
Companies
Behind Japan's recent entry into the luxury-car market lies a fundamental change in the way the Japanese make cars, posing a new and costly challenge to rivals. [A1.] Ford has better manufacturing efficiency than its Big Three rivals, giving it the best competitive position for the 90's, a study said. [D5.]
Campeau's two American retail divisions received a two-week reprieve from a threat by their bank lenders to declare $2.34 billion of loans in default. [D1.]
Bank of Boston expects to break even in the fourth quarter because of gains from selling its credit card unit to Chase and restructuring its pension fund. [D2.]
Eastern Airlines introduced fares at up to 45 percent below the lowest discount fares in the industry. But Continental Airlines raised its fares by 4 percent because of higher fuel prices. [A16.]
A top official at Shearson Lehman Hutton resigned to pursue business opportunities elsewhere. Jeffrey B. Lane was president of a unit called the subsidiary activities group. [D4.]
Miniscribe filed for bankruptcy protection, citing numerous lawsuits filed against it by holders of its shares and debt. [D4.]
Union Pacific agreed to sell most of the assets of its Union Pacific Realty subsidiary for about $532 million. [D4.] Sales at Toys 'R' Us jumped 22.7 percent in the Christmas season. [D4.]
 
Economy
Sales of cars made in the U.S. continued to be sluggish, falling 21.3 percent in mid-December from a year earlier. [D1.] The economy remained in a slump in December, the nation's purchasing managers said. [D5.] Construction spending rose 1.5 percent in November, hitting a 10-month high. [D5.]
Increases in health insurance rates are leveling off in many parts of the country, Blue Cross and Blue Shield officials said. [D1.]
 
International
President Carlos Saul Menem undertook a new plan to turn back inflation by making Argentina's currency, the austral, a scarce commodity. [A2.]
The U.S. and 14 other industrialized countries have established a $1 billion fund to support Warsaw's efforts to make its currency partly convertible into hard currencies, the Treasury said. [A13.]
 
Technology
The personal computer has a new competitor that could someday take away a significant share of the office market. [D1.]
Two California scientists have developed a method that relies on hot air to eliminate indoor insect infestations. [D6.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
The-end-of-the-year treat for shareholders of a dividend increase was less evident last year than at any time in nearly two decades. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
The idea of discouraging European imports of U.S. television programs is based on a misunderstanding of economics, an American economist says. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Marketing executives predict that the top ad news of the 1990's will revolve around technology, geography, creativity and agency structure. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); UAL (NYSE) (54%); UNP (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (53%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (53%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (62%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (54%); TOYS 'R' US INC (53%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PRICE INCREASES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); LUXURY GOODS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); FUTURES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ORANGE JUICE MARKETS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); AIRLINES (70%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (66%); 



63 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Americans Are Coming

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
TO Jacques Delors, president of the European Commission, the case for discouraging European imports of American television programming is self-evident. ''Have we the right to exist, to perpetuate our traditions?'' he asked broadcasters meeting in Paris in October. They approved guidelines for 1992 limiting American programs to 50 percent of air time.
But to Eli Noam, a Columbia University economist and member of the New York State Public Service Commission, Mr. Delors's logic is far from self-evident. Restrictions on imported programming, he argues, are based on a misunderstanding of economics - a misunderstanding nurtured by cultural snobs and public television bureaucrats. 
In a forthcoming book on the globalization of television, Mr. Noam debunks the conventional wisdom that Americans would inevitably dominate an increasingly competitive programming market. Open international competition might reduce the national identity of some types of shows, he concedes, but it would almost certainly serve the interests of European producers and consumers.
European television now buys a substantial portion of its entertainment programming at bargain rates from America. For many European analysts, including the conservative Government of Margaret Thatcher, the explanation is simple: Americans dump television software in foreign markets at bargain rates - the way Koreans allegedly dump steel.
Once Americans have made a show for the domestic market for, say, $700,000, the cost of delivering copies of the film or video to a foreign television network is next to zero. It thus pays to sell programming in Europe for whatever the traffic will bear, even if that amounts to only $30,000 or $40,000. And European producers who try to compete are hopelessly underpriced.
But as Mr. Noam argues, the European tail ought to be able to wag the American dog: Once a program is domestically produced for, say, British television, it should pay the owners to sell it on the other side of the Atlantic for a tuppence.
As every fan of ''Masterpiece Theater'' knows, Europeans do export some programs. Moreover the American buyers - mostly public television and cable networks - do manage to obtain the programming below production cost. But Europeans contend that the relationship is still not symmetric because there is a bigger audience in Europe for middlebrow American imports than there is in America for highbrow European shows.
That may be true, Mr. Noam suggests, but it hardly justifies protectionism. American producers would presumably be delighted to charge more to their European customers. They cannot because European national networks informally (and sometimes formally) conspire to keep down costs by refusing to bid against each other.
These anti-competitive buying arrangements work with a vengeance. The European Broadcast Union, the sole European bidder for rights to the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, paid just 17 cents per household. ABC-TV, by contrast, paid $1.76 per household for American broadcast rights because it had to compete with NBC and CBS.
The European cultural chauvinists are thus caught in an economic bind. If they enforce tough restrictions on American imports, they will need to fill the air time with more locally produced programming. And that programming is sure to be less popular or more expensive than the American shows they are now buying - otherwise there would have been no point to the restrictions.
In any event, Mr. Noam suggests, technological change and increased competition among European networks are likely to undermine the coalition backing protection.
Europe's public television monopolies are losing the battle to keep alternative programming off the air. And as the new boys on the block, private cable and direct broadcast satellite networks like Rupert Murdoch's Skyvision have powerful incentives to pay premium rates for the splashiest programming. The higher prices commanded for American shows will in turn increase the financial incentives for their European competitors to produce comparably slick mass-market programming.
That may mean the decline of a distinctly European style of television. But as Mr. Noam points out, European citizens of the global village may not mourn the loss for long. In late 19th-century Germany, he notes, the Kaiser's loyal followers preferred group calesthenics developed during the Prussian war of liberation to team sports from alien England. ''How many Germans citizens today,'' he wonders, ''know that their indigenous culture is being eroded by attendance at soccer games?''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (60%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (60%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; EUROPE

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TELEVISION PROGRAMS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); OLYMPICS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER JACQUES LUCIEN JEAN DELORS (74%); MARGARET THATCHER (55%); 



64 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Bank of Boston Acts to Offset Bad Property Loans

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The Bank of Boston Corporation yesterday announced additional losses from its real estate lending but said it expected to break even in the fourth quarter as the losses were offset by profits from selling most of its credit card business to the Chase Manhattan Corporation and the restructuring of its pension fund.
As the largest banking company in New England, the Bank of Boston has been hit hard by the weakness in real estate in the region. After lending heavily to construct new condominiums and office buildings when real estate prices were rising rapidly, the bank has had trouble collecting on loans to developers now that real estate prices are weak and vacancies are rising.
About three months ago, real estate problems caused the bank to set aside additional reserves, which resulted in a $125 million loss for the third quarter. In the fourth quarter, the Boston banking company said it was adding $280 million to its reserve for loan losses, and would write off $300 million of loans. 
 
Real Estate Holdings Climb
The banking company's holdings of real estate, mostly acquired through foreclosure on bad loans, rose to $600 million from $300 million, and $200 million more of loans became non-performing during the quarter. Non-performing loans, which are 90 days in arrears or whose prospects are poor, declined to $1.1 billion at the end of the year from $1.5 billion on Sept. 30 because of the $300 million charge-off and the increase in real estate holdings.
To offset the losses from real estate, the Bank of Boston said yesterday that it had sold $645 million of credit card receivables to Chase, which has been a heavy buyer of credit card receivables this year. Chase paid a premium for the receivables, resulting in a pretax profit of about $145 million for the Bank of Boston.
The Bank of Boston also added about $50 million to its fourth-quarter earnings by financing a part of its pension plan with annuity contracts purchased from insurance companies. The gain occurred because the pension plan held stocks, bonds and other assets whose value exceeded the cost of the annuity contracts.
 
Stock Rises 75 Cents, to $19.75
Bank of Boston stock rose 75 cents yesterday, to $19.75. In addition to the stimulus from the large gain in broad stock market indexes, analysts said the rise in Bank of Boston stock reflected speculation by some buyers that the company was nearing the end of its problems.
Thomas J. Tisch, who in combination with other members of his family has bought more than 6 percent of Bank of Boston's stock since late October, said last week that even if the company was to announce additional loan losses, he was convinced that it was a fundamentally sound company whose stock was ''over penalized'' by the troubles of the region's economy.
Several analysts cautioned that problems in the New England economy were not diminishing and that banks in that region might find even more troubled loans in the future.
Ira Stepanian, the chief executive at the Bank of Boston, said that the New England economy deteriorated in the fourth quarter and that there are ''continuing uncertain economic conditions for 1990.''
Virginia Adair, a banking analyst at Drexel Burnham Lambert, said that ''I expect there will be at least two more quarters of continued problems at Bank of Boston, with increases in loan loss reserves and increases in nonperforming assets.''
For Chase, the purchase of Bank of Boston's credit card business was the fifth acquisition in the last 12 months. Including another small purchase at the end of 1988 from the Investors Savings Bank in Richmond, Chase has purchased about two million credit card accounts this year, while adding a million accounts through its own marketing efforts.
David J. Cornell, a vice president at Chase, said that pretax profits of 4 to 4.5 percent on credit-card receivables made the business one where Chase expected to continue to expand through acquisition and growth of its existing business. Chase said it is the second-largest bank in the credit card business in the country, with nine million accounts and more than $9 billion in credit card receivables outstanding. Citibank is the largest bank in the business, with considerably more than 20 million accounts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (98%); BAC (LSE) (98%); 8648 (TSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (98%); NEW ENGLAND (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF BOSTON CORP; CHASE MANHATTAN CORP

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS REAL ESTATE (95%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); INSURANCE (72%); ANNUITIES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); BONDS (65%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL



65 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Union Pacific Agrees To Sell Real Estate

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LEV, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 2

 BODY:
The Union Pacific Corporation said today that it had agreed to sell most of the assets of its Union Pacific Realty subsidiary to a California real estate investment firm for about $532 million.
The firm, the Koll Company, will acquire about 15,000 acres and 30 buildings, mostly in the Western United States, that are in various stages of development and leasing. Harvey S. Turner, a Union Pacific spokesman, said the real estate included acreage, industrial parks and buildings in Southern California, Denver, Salt Lake City and Washington state. 
Koll, a private company involved in real estate construction and asset management, said it planned to make the acquisition with an unidentified partner through UBS Securities Inc. in New York.
Union Pacific, the railroad company with headquarters in Bethlehem, Pa., said in April that it would divest itself of its realty company and buy back stock to concentrate on its core railroad and transportation businesses and to help raise its stock price to $100 a share.
The company's stock jumped $3.125 today, to $79.75 a share, in New York Stock Exchange trading.
In May, the company bought back about 11 million shares for $73 each. Union Pacific has already sold more than $125 million in property. It continues to market for sale about 1,000 remaining acres in New Orleans, Denver, Long Beach, Calif., and Las Vegas, Nev. Most of the property had been acquired by Union Pacific for its railroad or for investment.
Koll, based in Newport Beach, Calif., owns more than four million square feet of industrial and retail real estate in the Western United States.
The company said its purchase of Union Pacific's real estate represented its single largest acquisition.
''The portfolio contains a number of real finely located parcels of industrial property as well as existing industrial and office buildings,'' said Chuck Schreiber, Koll's senior vice president of acquisitions.
Mr. Schreiber said that Koll intended to develop much of the land it was acquiring and that it would sell other pieces. While some of the property is in markets that have experienced price declines through recession, he said: ''This is not a fire sale. This is a quality portfolio.'' Union Pacific said only a few small properties had been sold at a loss.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (98%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (98%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (72%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (72%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (72%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEVADA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (98%); KOLL CO (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNION PACIFIC REALTY; UNION PACIFIC CORP; KOLL CO

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: LEV, MICHAEL CHUCK SCHREIBER (66%); 



66 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Murdoch Hires Outsider To Run British Papers

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH

 BODY:
To hear Rupert Murdoch tell it, the British portion of his publishing and television empire is consuming too much of his time, and Andrew Knight is just the man to do something about it.
Mr. Murdoch announced yesterday that Mr. Knight, who spent the last four years turning the Sunday and daily Telegraph newspapers into money makers, will become executive chairman and chief executive of News International P.L.C., the British subsidiary of the News Corporation. The appointment is effective in March. 
In succeeding Mr. Murdoch in that capacity, Mr. Knight, 50, will be responsible for the publishing operations of News International. Its newspaper holdings include The Times of London, Today, News of the World, and The Sun, a daily tabloid whose circulation of four million makes it Britain's biggest newspaper.
In a short telephone interview from Los Angeles, Mr. Murdoch said he would continue to oversee News International's Sky Television, the fledgling four-channel satellite service that is losing some $3.2 million a week. He also intends to spend more time in the United States, where the News Corporation owns the Fox television stations and programming operations.
''I'm spending 25 percent of my time in Britain,'' said Mr. Murdoch, who will continue to serve as the News Corporation's chief executive. ''I need to cut that down.'' Mr. Knight, whom Mr. Murdoch called ''the most accomplished executive and editor in British publishing,'' was editor of The Economist magazine for 12 years before joining The Daily Telgraph P.L.C. as chief executive and editor in chief. The Telegraph's 1989 profits are expected to total about 40 million ($64.6 million), up from 29 million ($46.8 million) in 1988.
Mr. Knight is credited with modernizing The Telegraph by introducing more features and news analysis and by aggressively marketing the conservative paper.
He also earned a reputation as a tough boss by cutting the Telegraph's staff by more than half. And he recently forced journalists to make concessions aimed at increasing productivity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (54%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); NEWS INTERNATIONAL PLC (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWS INTERNATIONAL

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN; KNIGHT, ANDREW; MURDOCH, RUPERT KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (93%); 



67 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Construction Outlays Up In November

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 2

 BODY:
Construction spending rose 1.5 percent in November, hitting a 10-month high, the Commerce Department reported today.
The department said that government spending rose 7 percent in the month, pushing total outlays to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $421.7 billion, the highest level since $423 billion last January.
David Berson, chief economist for the Federal National Mortgage Corporation, attributed the jump to lower interest rates and to rebuilding after Hurricane Hugo, which hit South Carolina on Sept. 21, and the San Francisco Bay-area earthquake, which struck on Oct. 17. 
 
Response to Lower Rates
''I think a reasonable argument can be made that some of the government spending was disaster related,'' he said.
Mr. Berson noted that the government sector had been growing strongly since July, meaning that not all of the advance should be attributed to the disasters. Government spending totaled $91.4 billion on an annual rate.
Residential spending increased six-tenths of 1 percent, to $194.4 billion, on an annual rate, helped by a 1.5 percent gain in single-family housing and a 4.7 percent jump in apartment building.
''What we're seeing here is a response by builders to lower mortgage rates and increased sales,'' Mr. Berson said. ''We're likely to see that edging up for the next several months, but I don't think we're going to see any surges because builders will remain very cautious.''
The Federal Reserve began letting short-term interest rates fall gradually in June, as inflation moderated and the economy showed signs of sluggishness. The central bank had propped up the rates initially to stem inflationary pressures.
By the end of November, fixed-rate mortgage rates were 9.74 percent, according to a survey by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. They had peaked at 11.22 percent in March.
Despite lower interest rates, construction of nonresidential buildings was down seven-tenths of 1 percent, to $100.7 billion, on an annual rate. Industrial construction advanced 1.7 percent, to $18.1 billion.
The total construction figure was up 1.5 percent from the level of building a year ago.

GRAPHIC: Graph of total construction spending at seasonally adjusted annual rate from June '88-Nov. '89 (source: Commerce Dept.) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (64%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (64%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (79%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 



68 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Economy Stayed In Slump in December

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
The economy remained in a slump in December, although production levels rose and exports expanded, the nation's purchasing managers said in a monthly report.
In the report, the National Association of Purchasing Management said that its index of economic activity rose to 48 percent in December from 46.6 percent in November. The index is at its highest level since June 1989. 
A reading below 50 indicates that the manufacturing sector of the economy is in a decline, while a reading above 50 percent indicates an expansion. A reading below 44 indicates a decline in real gross national product.
''The index is up, but not to a level to suggest any serious strength in the economy,'' said Burton Zwick, senior economist at Kidder, Peabody & Company. ''The economy in manufacturing is very slow, and there is a significant risk of a recession. The purchasing managers' index is still meaningfully below 50 percent and has been that way for months now.''
 
Wide Range of Companies
The purchasing managers' report is considered an important economic indicator because it is compiled from information supplied by managers from a range of industrial companies.
The dollar and stock prices rose in reaction to the report as it suggested the economy might not be so soft as previously thought.
The monthly report indicated that new export orders continued to expand, the report said, although the rate of growth was below that of the previous month. Also, prices declined for the seventh consecutive month, at a slightly higher rate than in November. And vendor deliveries were faster.
Robert J. Bretz, chairman of the association's business survey committee, said that although the index was the highest since June 1989, ''the steady declines in both the vendor delivery index and the price index confirms a continued weakness in the underlying economy in this, the eighth year of recovery.''
The new-orders index rose to 50.4 percent in December from 48.1 percent in November, the second month that the index exceeded 50 percent.
 
Production Index Up to 50.6%
After five months of decline, the purchasing managers' group reported that production increased in December. The production index rose to 50.6 percent, from 48.6 percent.
The vendor delivery index was the lowest since May 1982, registering at 42.2 percent, down from 42.5 percent in November. The association said that the number of items in short supply increased to 13 from 10 in November. Among those were bearings, electric motors, hydrogen peroxide, nylon and milk.
The association also said that inventories declined in December, marking a full year of monthly declines. The decline was attributed to manufacturers' reducing their end-of-the-year inventory levels.
Prices declined for the seventh straight month, at a somewhat faster pace than in November, the report said. The price index fell to 41.9 percent, down from 42.7 percent in November and the lowest level since June 1985, when it was 42.4 percent. The report indicated higher prices for a number of products, including hydraulics, benzine, coal, sugar and freon. Lower prices were reported for aluminum, copper, steel, ethylene, orange juice and corn starch.
The report also said manufacturing employment declined for the 11th straight month. The employment index rose to 46.9 percent, up slightly from 46.8 percent in November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (70%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P



69 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
Predicting The Trends Of the 1990's

BYLINE: By RANDALL ROTHENBERG

 BODY:
IF the 1980's witnessed the transformation of advertising agencies into diversified marketing/communications conglomerates, the 1990's will mark the continuing evolution in the advertising images that Americans will see and in the companies that will provide them.
Although they differed on who advertising's winners and losers might be through the coming decade, three dozen top advertising and marketing executives concurred in predicting that the top ad news of the 1990's will revolve around technology, geography, creativity and agency structure. The following is a sample of their forecasts:
Media, in new forms and old, will proliferate. ''There will be more choices for consumers in terms of media, and more choices within each medium,'' said Brad R. Moore, division vice president of advertising at Hallmark Cards Inc. ''It will make it more complex for us to reach consumers with advertising, and to make sure we're not neglecting whole groups of consumers who are not watching the typical mass media.'' 
But James C. Reilly, general manager of marketing plans and communications at the International Business Machines Corporation, saw ''a paradox.''
''While new media will be important to reach segmented markets,'' he said, ''at the same time it will lead to more clutter and media choice for the end-user.''
New research technologies will enable advertisers to aim at individual consumers. ''The history of commercially successful media in this country has been tied to an audience-measurement system that advertisers and agencies accept, like Nielsen,'' said William M. Weilbacher, an advertising consultant. ''Single-source data is the big area of growth - you make a lot of different kinds of measurements off an individual. One of the things that will do is provide the measurement capability to permit this media revolution.''
Malcolm MacDougall, the vice chairman of Jordan, McGrath, Case & Taylor, saw this changing the way advertising is judged. ''New technological devices will allow us to track sales almost instantly,'' he said. ''We'll have electronic monitoring of the ads we create. The result of that will be more accountability than we've ever seen.''
The giant ad agencies will collapse. While this belief was universal among executives at smaller agencies, Hank Seiden, chief executive of Ketchum Advertising, New York, cautioned that it might not be a benefit for smaller shops. ''More clients will go toward house agencies,'' he said. ''One of the first breaks was Ron Perelman at Revlon. He found Dick Tarlow, fell in love with him and then bought his agency.''
Many medium and small agencies will disappear. This view was widely held by executives of large agencies and clients. ''They'll have to be part of the global operations, because they can't survive the financial squeezes,'' said Eugene P. Beard, the chief financial officer of the Interpublic Group of Companies. ''And clients will want global agencies. Agencies like Jordan, Bloom and Hill, Holliday, with $200 million or even $500 million in billings - they'll have to join up with the globals.''
Clay S. Timon, head of worldwide advertising for the Colgate-Palmolive Company, agreed. ''I think you'll see a continuing consolidation of major chunks of business with major agency groups,'' he said. ''We have two; Lever has four core agencies.''
Advertisers will rediscover the importance of strategic ideas. ''I see the 1990's as returning to a product-benefit emphasis in advertising,'' said David E.R. Dangoor, vice president of marketing at Philip Morris U.S.A. The reason: ''In the '90's there will be some tightening of economic circumstances, and consumers will buy only what they need. That will make them more skeptical of advertising that doesn't address their needs.''
Slogans and brand imagery will make a comeback. ''From the time we grew up, we look back and remember brand values and symbols and slogans and images,'' said Barrie J. Webster, president of Berenter, Greenhouse & Webster. ''They'll become increasingly important because you'll need something that can travel through many forms of media and remain consistent.''
John Ferrell, executive creative director of Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos/New York, forecast ads ''like the old Y.& R. campaign for Frito-Lay - 'Nobody can eat just one.' Ideas like that really make money.''
Japanese ad agencies will make their power felt. ''The Dentsus are going to come alive,'' said Mr. Seiden of Ketchum, echoing a fear held by many ad executives. ''And American agencies will go to the Japanese to sell for top dollar, which will make the Japanese less reluctant to come here.''
Caroline R. Jones, president of the New York agency that bears her name, predicted that the Japanese will have their greatest impact on advertising creativity. ''The Japanese already have had an influence, certainly in a graphic and photographic sense,'' she said. ''They set the standards at the film advertising festivals when they do either demonstration or comparison ads.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (68%); IBM (NYSE) (68%); IBM (LSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: HALLMARK CARDS INC (69%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (68%); JORDAN MCGRATH CASE & TAYLOR INC (64%); HILL HOLLIDAY CONNORS COSMOPULOS/NEW YORK (70%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; FORECASTS; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (89%); TRENDS (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (73%); MARKETING PLAN (73%); 

PERSON: RONALD PERELMAN (50%); 



70 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: C.D.'s, Bank Funds Steady

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields on certificates of deposit and money market accounts at commercial banks and savings institutions were mostly unchanged for the week ended yesterday.
According to some analysts, the absence of movement in the rates reflects the lack of a clear direction in the economy. In addition, Robert T. Hennes, executive vice president at Dollar Dry Dock Bank, said, ''The credit markets are increasingly addicted to doses of monetary easing, and recent events have suggested that the Fed will ease slower than had been expected.'' 
At the Treasury's regular weekly bill auction of three-month and six-month bills yesterday, interest rates declined sharply. The auction results are considered an influence over what many banks pay on money market accounts and certificates of deposits.
The average rate for a three-month bill dropped 13 basis points, to 7.64 percent, while the rate for a six-month bill fell 12 basis points, to 7.52 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
 
Yields Mixed in New York
The Bank Rate Monitor's weekly survey of New York area banks showed certificate yields at commercial banks and savings institutions were mixed.
At commercial banks, the yield on an average money market account declined 3 basis points, to 6.62 percent, while a three-month certificate rose a basis point, to 7.94 percent, and a six-month certificate fell a basis point, to 7.79 percent.
Meanwhile, money market accounts at savings institutions were unchanged, at 6.62 percent. Yields on certificates of deposit were weak, with the average three-month maturity off 4 basis points, to 8.12 percent, and the average six-month certificate down 3 basis points, to 8.16 percent.
Among 20 large banks nationwide, the average yield on money market accounts was unchanged, at 6.44 percent, with six-month certificates down 2 basis points, to 7.81 percent.
Yields offered on certificates and money market accounts held at large credit unions have been mixed for about a month. Money market accounts declined 3 basis points, to 6.74 percent, while six-month and five-year certificates both increased a basis point, to 8.11 percent and 8.24 percent, respectively.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DOLLAR DRY DOCK BANK (58%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (91%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (91%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); CREDIT UNIONS (73%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT



71 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Securities Down Slightly

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The credit markets opened the new year on a somewhat sour note yesterday, as prices of Treasury securities dipped slightly in light trading.
''The stock market has started the year off favorably, but there is very little retail activity in our market,'' said Neil Dubrow, a vice president at Voute, Coats, Stuart & O'Grady, a bond trading firm in Greenwich, Conn. ''The market is missing new buyers, and that is not a good way to start off the year.'' 
Market participants said that yesterday's economic news, which included a slightly higher reading in a monthly index of business conditions compiled by the nation's purchasing managers and another bad 10-day sales report from auto makers, was mixed. And a surprising rise in the dollar was virtually ignored.
Lawrence N. Leuzzi, a managing director at S.G. Warburg Securities Inc., said that ''the purchasing managers report was a mixed bag.''
''The only two numbers that pushed up the overall index were new orders and production,'' he said, ''and they were both impacted by seasonal factors. And the index, which rose to 48 percent, is still below 50, which means the economy is still contracting.''
One government bond trader said, ''The strength of the dollar was the big news, but the market is not focusing on the dollar right now. The pace of activity in December was so slow that it will take time to build some momentum. A lot of people are waiting to see what the employment numbers on Friday show before they make any decisions.''
 
Absence of Tokyo Trading
The absence of trading in Tokyo, where financial markets were closed in continued celebration of the new year, did not help the pace of activity in Treasury issues.
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 101 18/32, down 5/ 32, to yield 7.98 percent.
Among note issues, the 7 7/8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 99 21/ 32, down 2/32, to yield 7.92 percent. The 7 3/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 99 17/32, down 1/32, to yield 7.85 percent. And the 7 5/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 99 18/32, down 2/32, to yield 7.86 percent.
Treasury bill rates eased at the weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills. At the auction, three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 7.64 percent, down from an average rate of 7.77 percent at last week's auction.
Meanwhile, six-month bills were sold at an average rate of 7.52 percent, down from 7.64 percent a week ago.
Elsewhere, activity in the secondary markets for corporate and tax-exempt municipal bonds was very slow, dealers reported. Prices of most issues in both markets were unchanged on the day.
There were no pricings of new debt in either the investment-grade corporate bond market or in the municipal bond market.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: Graphs of Treasury Yield Curve (source: Technical Data International); 3-Month Treasury Bills (source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (68%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (56%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



72 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Fed Intervenes to Slow Dollar's Rise Against Yen

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The dollar rose sharply yesterday, forcing the Federal Reserve to intervene by selling dollars several times to stem its rally against the Japanese yen.
The rally is the type of contrary move that the foreign exchange market is known for. Going into 1990, many forecasters said they expected the dollar to continue to decline, especially against the West German mark. In the beginning of 1989, forecasters also expected the dollar to decline, but it went on a nine-month rally, only to finally decline against the mark and other continental currencies. 
Traders said yesterday's rally was prompted by several factors. These included the report of the National Association of Purchasing Management, which showed its index rising to 48 percent in December from 46.6 percent in November. The improvement was greater than anticipated, indicating the economy might not be as weak as believed.
 
A Good Deal
In addition, traders said, the heavy selling of the dollar in December may have gone further than warranted, making the dollar a good buy now.
The dollar was also helped against the yen by new rumors of a political scandal in Japan that if true would hurt the Liberal Democratic Party's prospects in February's parliamentary elections, said James T. McGroarty, senior vice president at Greenwich Capital Markets Inc. in Greenwich, Conn.
Traders noted that the market was thin yesterday because the Tokyo and Zurich markets were still closed for the New Year's holiday.
In late trading in New York, the dollar was up about 2.5 yen, to 146.45 yen, from 143.89 late Friday. Against the mark, the dollar was up more than two pfennigs, to 1.7130 marks, from 1.6910 on Friday.
''When you see the dollar plunge a lot in December, you usually have a pretty good rally in January,'' Mr. McGroarty said.
He added that if Friday's unemployment report for December shows that the economy is a little stronger than expected, the Federal Reserve might delay pushing interest rates lower. The assumption that the Fed will push interest rates lower to prevent a big slowdown has led many forecasters to predict the dollar will decline in the first part of the year.
Mr. McGroarty said he expected the dollar to rise more in January. But he said he would review his view based on the Fed's actions and on developments in Eastern Europe, which at the end of last year led to a significant weakening of the dollar against the mark.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: GREENWICH CAPITAL MARKETS INC (67%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); INTEREST RATES (61%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN JAMES T MCGROARTY (84%); 



73 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: H. E. Kershner, 98, A Longtime Worker In Children's Causes

BYLINE: By GLENN FOWLER

 BODY:
Howard E. Kershner, a businessman and an outspoken conservative about politics and economics who retired 50 years ago to devote himself to relief causes for children, died of a pulmonary ailment on Monday at the Southland Lutheran Home in Norwalk, Calif. He was 98 years old and had lived for several years in La Jolla, Calif.
Mr. Kershner was at various times a newspaper editor and publisher, a real estate operator, builder, manufacturer and author. In 1939 he retired from active business and spent the rest of his life pursuing causes in which he believed. 
Shortly before World War II, he went to Europe for the American Friends Service Committee to provide food for children on both sides of the Spanish Civil War. He later organized a broader Quaker relief effort for European children and was a member of the Committee on Food for the Small Democracies.
After the war, as vice president of the Save the Children Federation, he set up that organization's program of help to schoolchildren in Eastern and Southern Europe. He also raised money for UNICEF and was a founding member of CARE.
In 1950 Mr. Kershner organized the Christian Freedom Foundation, edited its fortnightly journal, Christian Economics, and wrote a column, ''It's Up to You,'' which was printed in 225 daily and 425 weekly newspapers. From 1967-1973 he was a lay preacher for the Congregational Church in Los Angeles. For the next several years he taught economics at the Northwood Institute in Dallas before returning to California.
Mr. Kershner was born in Tescott, Kan., and started work at the age of 12 as a newsboy and carpenter. He graduated from Friends University in Wichita, Kan., and studied economics at Harvard University before he became editor and publisher of The Dodge City (Kan.) Daily Journal.
He was awarded the Order of Leopold by the Belgian Government and the Order of Merit by the International Union for the Protection of Children, and was a member of the French Legion of Honor. He wrote several books, including ''The Menace of Roosevelt and His Policies,'' published in 1936; ''Quaker Service in Modern War'' (1950) and ''God, Gold and Government'' (1956).
Mr. Kershner's first wife, Gertrude, died in 1976. His second wife, Lenore, was killed in an automobile accident in 1981. His third wife, the former Mary DuVall, survives, as do a son, Wendell, of Hacienda Heights, Calif.; two daughters, Margaret Weber of Rochester and Linaford Bassett of South Burlington, Vt.; nine grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); VERMONT, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (73%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); WICHITA, KS, USA (71%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); AMERICAN FRIENDS SERVICE COMMITTEE (57%); AMERICAN FRIENDS SERVICE COMMITTEE (57%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (56%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (56%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (55%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (55%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (76%); WRITERS (76%); CHILD WELFARE (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); CIVIL WAR (70%); 

PERSON: KERSHNER, HOWARD E; FOWLER, GLENN HOWARD E KERSHNER (94%); 



74 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: Noriega's Surrender: Overview;
NORIEGA GIVES HIMSELF UP TO U.S. MILITARY; IS FLOWN TO FLORIDA TO FACE DRUG CHARGES

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3

 BODY:
President Bush announced tonight that Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega had surrendered to the United States military authorities in Panama, giving the President the final victory he had been seeking in the invasion of Panama.
General Noriega, who had defied American efforts to drive him from power for more than four years, was removed under cover of night from the Vatican Embassy in Panama, where he had taken refuge 10 days ago. He was then flown by United States military helicopter to Howard Air Base in Panama City, where he was arrested by agents of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration.
The general is under indictment in two Federal courts in Florida on drug trafficking charges and Mr. Bush has made bringing him to trial in the United States a major justification for invading Panama on Dec. 20 and an important aspect of his Latin American policy in general.
 
Bush Thanks the Vatican
Mr. Bush appeared in the White House briefing room at about 9:40 P.M., less than an hour after General Noriega surrendered, to announce that the deposed Panamanian strongman was aboard an Air Force C-131 transport plane bound for Homestead Air Force Base in southern Florida. 
Thanking the Vatican for its ''evenhanded, statesmanlike assistance'' in getting General Noriega into American hands, Mr. Bush told reporters at a hurriedly called White House briefing that the general would be arraigned in Federal District Court in Miami on the drug charges filed in Miami in 1988. He was also indicted in Tampa.
An Administration official who asked not to be identified said that the White House had been expecting a breakthrough in the negotiations for several days, but that General Noriega's final surrender came without warning.
 
General Sets 3 Conditions
The general had sought assurances earlier in the week that he would not face the death penalty if he surrendered and had been told that the charges against him did not carry the death penalty, the official said.
Tonight, General Noriega informed the United States through Vatican intermediaries that he was ready to surrender. The official said the general had set three conditions: he wanted the press to be kept away from the Vatican mission when he left, he wanted to be able to contact family and friends by telephone before being flown out of the country and he wanted to be able to wear his uniform when he surrendered.
The United States, acting through the Vatican diplomats, agreed to those conditions, the official said.
General Noriega left the mission at 8:48 P.M. and was aboard the C-131 transport plane by 9:08 P.M. His surrender followed a demonstration by an estimated 20,000 Panamanians who filled five blocks near the Vatican Embassy carrying signs denouncing him, including one that read ''No Mercy'' in six languages.
In an interview on the ABC News program ''Nightline,'' Archbishop Marcos McGrath of Panama said the demonstration might have nudged General Noriega into making his final decision to surrender.
Archbishop McGrath said the Papal Nuncio, Msgr. Sebastian Laboa, had met more and more frequently with General Noriega in recent days seeking to persuade the general to leave the Nunciature, where he had been kept isolated in a room on an upper floor.
In the end, the Archbishop said, General Noriega's choices ''came down to sitting indefinitely in the Nunciature surrounded by a hostile nation and the armed forces of the United States, or turning himself over to one or the other.''
Archbishop McGrath said that the Nuncio was determined not to ''push him out the front door,'' but that it had made it increasingly clear in recent days that the Vatican wanted General Noriega to leave the Embassy building, and that when he finally surrendered, despite his erect bearing, he seemed ''a broken man.''
 
A Turning Point
General Noriega's surrender marked a critical turning point in the largest American military operation since Vietnam.
The general's surrender eliminated a major obstacle to establishing the legal and military authority of the new Panamanian Government and bringing to a conclusion an invasion that had threatened to bog down in the negotiations over his fate. By foiling an attempted coup in October, General Noriega had put intense pressure on Mr. Bush to make good on his often-repeated vow to ''bring Manuel Noriega to justice.''
Administration officials have said they hoped that by capturing General Noriega they could encourage more countries to recognize the new Panamanian Government and eliminate the possibility of prolonged resistance to the invasion.
But Mr. Bush still faces uncertainties in the legal proceedings against General Noriega. The general's lawyers have said they will seek documents detailing his long association with the Central Intelligence Agency, including the period when Mr. Bush was Director of Central Intelligence.
 
Four U.S. Objectives
Mr. Bush said General Noriega had turned himself over to United States authorities ''with the full knowledge'' of the new Panamanian Government that was sworn in at the start of the Dec. 20 invasion.
''On Wednesday, Dec. 20,'' Mr. Bush said, ''I ordered U.S. troops to Panama with four objectives: to safeguard the lives of American citizens; to help restore democracy; to protect the integrity of the Panama Canal treaty, and to bring General Manuel Noriega to justice.''
''All of these objectives have now been achieved,'' he declared.
Mr. Bush said he was ''committed to providing General Noriega a fair trial.''
''Nevertheless,'' he said, ''his apprehension and return to the United States should send a clear signal that the United States is serious in its determination that those charged with promoting the distributing of drugs cannot escape the scrutiny of justice.''
 
'Good News,' Dole Says
Mr. Bush's announcement drew a quick reaction from Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate Republican leader, who called it ''good news for our war on drugs.''
''It proves American won't give up or cave in to anyone, no matter how powerful or corrupt,'' Mr. Dole said. ''Noriega will finally have his day in court, which is more than he gave the people of Panama.''
The surrender of General Noriega marked the culmination of intensive negotiations among officials from the United States, Panama and the Vatican since he took refuge in the Vatican mission on Dec. 24, four days after the invasion by 12,000 American troops who had been sent to Panama to reinforce the 12,000 already stationed in that country.
On Sunday, the United States sent Lawrence S. Eagleburger, the Deputy Secretary of State, to Panama on what was ostensibly a mission to discuss economic aid to the new Panamanian Government, whose leaders had claimed victory in May elections that General Noriega later nullified. The announcement of General Noriega's surrender tonight suggested that Mr. Eagleburger's mission may have been crucial in the negotiations.
 
'The Decision Was His'
A senior Administration official said the Papal Nuncio in Panama had informed Maj. Gen. Marc Cisneros, the second-in-command of American forces in Panama, at about 6 P.M. that General Noriega was ready to surrender tonight. President Bush was told of the decision by Defense Secretary Dick Cheney at about 6:30, when he returned to the White House after a racquetball game.
At first, Administration officials were cautious, since there had been other promising indications of a solution to the stalemate. ''It could have happened every day,'' the official said. ''The Vatican was trying to talk him into leaving and sometimes we would get rumblings that the Nuncio thought he was ready to do it and it didn't happen.''
Gen. Maxwell R. Thurman, commander of the American troops in Panama, told reporters in Panama City tonight that General Noriega appeared fit when he surrendered, and added, ''The decision was his and his alone.''
General Thurman declined to answer questions about the whereabouts of General Noriega's wife and the rest of his family and also refused to provide any details about how the deal was struck to get the general out of the Vatican Embassy and into American custody.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush as he announced the surrender of General Noriega (AP); Thousands of Panamanians marched through downtown Panama City last night to celebrate after news spread that Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega had surrendered to the United States (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (60%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (60%); US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (90%); US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (DEA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (93%); RELIGION (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (74%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); ARRESTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); 



75 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: Savings Agency Ordered to Sell Real Estate Fast

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3

 BODY:
The new agency created to manage the huge savings and loan bailout was instructed today to sell the real estate it inherited from hundreds of insolvent institutions as quickly as possible. The directive from the Bush Administration raised concerns among bankers that the properties could be ''dumped'' in an already weakened real estate market.
While the mandate to the newly formed Resolution Trust Corporation could mean that billions of dollars in homes, apartment buildings, shopping centers and raw land would be available to investors at bargain prices in 1990, bankers warned that an overzealous sales program could do more harm than good.
''Dumping is an acute political hot button, and if that is mishandled, then the political problems will end up right on George Bush's door,'' said Kenneth A. Guenther, executive vice president of the Independent Bankers Association.
 
Largest in Nation's History
On Tuesday, the savings agency listed more than 30,000 parcels of commercial and residential property as the first group it will put on the market, making the real estate sale the nation's largest ever. The vast majority of parcels, 26,813, are residential, of which 11,918 are single-family homes. 
The nonresidential properties range from a golf course in South Padre Island, Tex., to a Dairy Queen in Woodland Park, Colo. Also on the list are nursing homes, theaters, marinas and churches.
The heaviest concentration of properties is in the troubled Southwest. Although the trust agency has not disclosed the total value of the real estate, officials put the value of the properties in Texas and Oklahoma alone at $6.4 billion at the end of August.
The instructions on how to sell the assets of the failed savings and loans are part of a ''strategic plan'' released today by the agency's Oversight Board, headed by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady. The plan also spelled out general guidelines for the sale of the hundreds of savings institutions the Government has taken over.
''It is important that the R.T.C. proceed and continue actively to dispose of assets immediately,'' the directive said. ''The R.T.C. should avoid deferring the marketing of properties. Holding properties off the market for an extended period of time may increase the ultimate cost of asset disposition.''
Officials of the Oversight Board contended that the real estate sale would stop short of dumping and serve to accelerate the cleanup of the savings and loan debacle.
But James Chessen, deputy director of economic and policy research at the American Bankers Association, said, ''We are worried that even the perception of dumping of assets is causing trouble.'' Such dumping, or the excessive selling of real estate below market values, the banking officials said, will aggravate a market that is already weak, especially in the Southwest, parts of Florida and the Northeast.
The impact of the real estate sale on the Federal budget will not be fully known for several years. The trust agency has been allotted $50 billion in Government money over three years to clean up the problems. But if it can manage to sell the troubled institutions and their assets at prices more favorable than expected, the budgetary hit will be less.
But few banking experts believe that will happen because of predictions that real estate markets are going to continue to soften and that in the end Resolution Trust, which has so far taken over 318 savings units, will have to take over many more than the 500 institutions initially projected.
 
Troubles Far From Over
In fact, figures released by the nation's chief savings regulators today indicated that the industry's difficulties are far from over.
The Office of Thrift Supervision announced that in October the nation's 2,895 savings and loan associations lost $4.5 billion in deposits, only a moderate improvement from the $5.4 billion loss in September.
The agency said that for the previous 12 months, the industry lost a total of $65 billion in deposits.
The deposits have shrunk for a variety of reasons. Beginning late in 1988, nervousness about the financial condition of the industry, as well as much higher rates offered by money market mutual funds, prompted depositors to withdraw large sums.
 
More Burden on Taxpayers
That caused many financial experts to warn that because the President's bailout plan called for the industry to pay part of the cost through higher deposit insurance premiums, any loss of deposits would reduce that contribution, putting more financial burden on the taxpayer.
The President's plan predicted that deposits would grow at about a 7 percent rate, or $70 billion a year.
But later in the year, when rates began to fall and provisions of the bailout approved by Congress in August became effective, a different dynamic kicked in. The new law called for savings and loan owners to invest higher levels of their own cash in their institutions, or risk losing control. As a result, many institutions that could not raise new money began to sell assets and offer lower interest rates, letting deposits drain off.
Bank board officials said today that that trend continued through October and was not likely to stop.
Playing a key role in overseeing that shrinkage will be the Resolution Trust Corporation, which, along with the Oversight Board, was set up by the bailout plan. The agency is managed on a day-to-day basis by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
 
Four-Volume Listing
The list released by the trust agency on Tuesday detailed the real estate for sale from the assets of 283 troubled institutions seized as of Sept. 30.
Effectively putting for-sale signs on 30,123 properties, the agency sent the listing to Congress and began to make it available to the public.
The agency divides the properties into two books of residential listings, a third book for commercial properties and one for undeveloped land that can be as small as a 2,048-square-foot lot on Frenchmen Street in New Orleans or as large as a 77,626-acre farm in Gilbert, Ariz.
As expected, the largest number of properties are in the Southwest, where the energy collapse early in the 1980's created a major regional depression, causing both banks and savings institutions to fail. Texas has 15,750 properties listed; Oklahoma, 1,575; Louisiana, 2,434, and Arizona, 1,711. Maine, Vermont, West Virginia and North and South Dakota are the only states in which property is not listed.
 
Updates Every 6 Months
The inventory of properties will be updated every six months, with the next one scheduled for June 1.
The guidelines under the Oversight Board's strategic plan said Resolution Trust could provide buyers with short-term options for returning to the Government those assets they find are more troubled than first realized. It also permits the agency to give buyers short-term financing in their purchase of ailing institutions to give them time to come up with longer financing.
The strategic plan also instructs the trust agency to give preferential treatment to minorities in the sale of minority-held institutions. For example, Daniel P. Kearney, president of the Oversight Board, said that if a bid from a minority organization is less costly than a liquidation, ''the R.T.C. is not required to solicit other bids.''
It also set certain guidelines to avoid conflicts of interest in any of transaction, like requiring that ''all communications initiated by senior public officials or their staffs that are intended to influence a case are to be logged and the records made public,'' Mr. Kearney said.
 
Fair Value Mandated
But the Oversight Board officials said they did not expect that their mandate to the trust agency to sell assets quickly would result in dumping. They said that the bailout law, signed on Aug. 9, prohibits the agency from selling any asset at less than 95 percent of its current appraised value.
Moreover, they said their primary concern would be if the trust agency withheld assets from the market in anticipation of an upturn in value; such vast amounts of unsold real estate might keep market prices depressed even longer.
''The real danger is falling prices if you don't sell the real estate,'' said John Ross, an economist with the Oversight Board.
One issue that the strategic plan did not address is the need by the trust corporation for vast amounts of interim borrowings so that it can finance the sales of troubled savings institutions. Although the total cleanup by the agency of about 500 institutions has been estimated to cost $50 billion, the actual amount of cash flow far exceeds that.
Mr. Kearney said he had received estimates from L. William Seidman, chairman of the trust agency, that $50 billion to $100 billion in medium-term borrowings would be needed over the next three years in addition to the original $50 billion. That would eventually be paid back out of the proceeds from the asset sales.
 
Basic Bidding Process
The procedure for buying a troubled institution is primarily through the traditional bidding process set up by the F.D.I.C., in which investors are given basic information about an institution and invited to submit bids.
Purchasing real estate will be done in a number of different ways. Many properties are listed with local real estate agents, while others will be given to local real estate specialists to market to investors. Resolution Trust itself will end up selling probably some of the largest assets to interested buyers.
The listing can be ordered by calling 1-800-431-0600. The four books combined cost $50, the two residential volumes are $15 each and the commercial and land volumes are $10 each. The lists are also being distributed to 1.400 libraries across the country.
Here is the list, by state, of the number of real estate properties for sale by the Resolution Trust Corporation:
 
Alabama, 178; Alaska, 349; Arizona, 1,711; Arkansas, 340; California, 397; Colorado, 1,586; Connecticut, 2; Delaware, 2; District of Columbia, 1; Florida, 1,288; Georgia, 744; Hawaii, 5; Idaho, 11; Illinois, 207; Indiana, 27; Iowa, 19; Kansas, 332; Kentucky, 38; Louisiana, 2,434; Maine, 0; Maryland, 16; Massachusetts, 5; Michigan, 12; Minnesota, 113; Mississippi, 384; Missouri, 76.
Montana, 43; Nebraska, 68; Nevada, 34; New Hampshire 1; New Jersey, 11; New Mexico, 637; New York, 12; North Carolina, 83; North Dakota, 0; Ohio, 115; Oklahoma, 1,575; Oregon, 102; Pennsylvania, 152; Rhode Island, 3; South Carolina, 78; South Dakota, 0; Tennessee, 344; Texas, 15,750; Utah, 629; Vermont, 0; Virginia, 103; Washington, 59; West Virginia, 0; Wisconsin, 36; Wyoming, 12.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INDQ (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (54%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (83%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; BANKRUPTCIES; FEDERAL AID (US); REAL ESTATE INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); RETAILERS (71%); HISTORY (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



76 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: DINKINS WILL DELAY HIRING OF RECRUITS FOR POLICE FORCE

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
In his first major act as Mayor of New York, David N. Dinkins said yesterday that he would indefinitely delay hiring 1,848 police officers who were to have gone on the payroll on Jan. 16 as recruits at the Police Academy. He said he might also have to delay another class that was scheduled to start in June.
Mr. Dinkins's decision means that the city's Police Department will almost certainly fall below its current strength of 25,971 officers during the year. It will also make it harder for the Mayor to keep his campaign promise to double the number of community patrol officers, who walk neighborhood beats, in his first term. 
Mr. Dinkins said the move would save $4 million a month and help keep the city's budget balanced in the face of deep fiscal uncertainty.
 
'Represents a Hardship'
''I realize that this represents a hardship both for the recruits awaiting induction and for the people of the city, who expect and deserve the protection that these new officers would afford,'' Mr. Dinkins said yesterday. His announcement came unexpectedly in the middle of a news conference called to discuss Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's State of the State Message.
State officials have predicted a budget gap for the city of as much as $185 million in the rest of the fiscal year that ends June 30 and a gap of at least several hundred million dollars in the following year.
''As I have said consistently, I will be bound by the requirements of fiscal prudence in making the difficult decisions that affect our city and our people,'' said Mr. Dinkins, whose liberal policies created concern in some quarters during the mayoral campaign that he might overspend. He was also faulted by his opponents as indecisive or unwilling to make unpopular decisions.
 
Discussion With Brown
''I would wish that every announcement I would make would speak of enhancements,'' he said. ''But that's just not the real world.''
Mr. Dinkins had vowed repeatedly during the mayoral campaign and in his inaugural address on Monday to be ''the toughest mayor on crime this city has ever seen.''
The January class was to have had 1,476 recruits for the Police Department, 230 for the transit police and 142 for the housing police. The transit police has about 3,600 officers, while the housing police has about 1,700. During his campaign, Mr. Dinkins had promised to put an officer on every subway car by the end of his first term.
The Mayor said he has explained the hiring delay to his newly named Police Commissioner, Lee P. Brown, who is to take office on Jan. 22. The Mayor said he expected to talk further with Mr. Brown, and to make a decision on how to proceed, by Feb. 15. But he refused to commit himself on when the class would start its five-month training program. ''We'll have a class,'' he said. ''I just cannot now say precisely when.''
While Mr. Dinkins said he hoped to proceed with another class of 1,600 officers in June as planned, he added that it was too early to know whether the city could afford to do so. He also said he did not know whether the Police Academy could accommodate two classes at once.
But Assistant Chief Raymond W. Kelly, head of the department's office of management and planning, said, ''Our position would be that we would find the room to do it.''
 
'Same Power' Against Crime
Mr. Dinkins said he reached his decision on Tuesday after talking with his budget director, Philip R. Michael. Administration officials said the delay in the police class was chosen because it was one of the areas of greatest flexibility. About 75 cents of each dollar in city revenue must go to programs, like social services and welfare payments, that are mandated by either law or court decisions or to keep pace with inflation.
Mayor Edward I. Koch frequently delayed planned police classes to save money, most recently postponing a class of about 1,300 recruits from June to July. Officials said the monthly savings gained by the newly announced delay would obviously accelerate if the delay also resulted in a delay of the class planned for this coming June.
Mr. Dinkins sought yesterday to diminish the blow, saying, ''We have the same power to combat crime today as we had before I made this announcement.''
But because the Police Department loses about 2,000 officers a year through attrition, police officials said the force would begin shrinking almost immediately.
Since last year, the city has had a partial hiring freeze on other agencies, begun by Mr. Koch. Uniformed police officers became exempt from the freeze after other actions kept the budget balanced.
 
'Phantom Cops'
The city's all-time highest police strength was just under 31,000 officers before the fiscal crisis in 1975. The department's strength fell to a low of 21,838 in December 1981, before climbing during the Koch administration to about 28,000 two years ago. In the last two years, the department has begun to shrink again as the city deferred hiring to keep the budget in line.
In the campaign, Mr. Dinkins often criticized Mr. Koch for creating ''phantom cops'' by claiming credit for officers he planned to hire and then failing to hire them. ''The distinction was, I accused the prior administration of counting those persons, when they did not in fact exist,'' Mr. Dinkins said yesterday.
Thomas Reppetto, president of the Citizens Crime Commission, a private group that monitors law enforcement, said he understood Mr. Dinkins's desire for fiscal caution at the beginning of the adminisitration. But he said, ''Given the current level of crime, disorder and drugs in this city, I would hope that maintaining the police force at a reasonable level, at least 26,000, would be among the highest priorities of this administration.''
Herbert E. Berman, who was chosen yesterday as chairman of the City Council's Finance Committee, said it would be premature to comment on the delay without discussing it with the administration.
 
Recruits Were Warned
Several of the recruits scheduled to report to the academy in two weeks said they were not completely surprised by Mr. Dinkins's decision, because they have been on Civil Service lists in recruit classes that have already been delayed several times in recent years.
''I'm kind of used to it,'' said Gary Robertson, a 26-year-old Staten Island resident who now works for the Criminal Justice Agency, a private group, where he interviews criminal defendants before arraignment and makes recommendations about whether they should be released on their own recognizance.
''So now I don't get all built up for it,'' Mr. Robertson added. ''I'm hoping, just waiting to see what happens. They do tell you, 'Don't quit your job, because it's never definite.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 6, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about Mayor David N. Dinkins's decision to delay the hiring of 1,848 police officers misstated a campaign promise he made about subway crime. He pledged that by the end of his first term he would put an officer on every train every night, not in every car.

GRAPHIC: Graph of uniformed officers on the New York City police force from '70-'88 (source: New York City Police Dept.) (NYT) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: POLICE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLICE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HIRING AND PROMOTION; ELECTION ISSUES; MAYORS; ELECTIONS POLICE FORCES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID N DINKINS (96%); JOHN MAJOR (74%); LEE P BROWN (57%); 



77 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
Gen. Manuel Noriega surrendered to United States authorities in Panama, giving President Bush the final victory he had been seeking. Gen. Noriega was flown to Florida to face trial on drug charges. Page A1
 
As word spreads of surrender, joy erupts in Panama A1
 
Noriega faces long, uncertain legal journey A12
 
Woman leads G.I.'s in combat in Panama, an Army first A13
 
Panama's new security chief quit less than two weeks after the new civilian Government appointed him to head the remnants of the Panamanian Defense Forces. A13
 
The killing of two nuns in Nicaragua, one an American, was not carried out by the American-backed contras, a contra official said. But clergymen in the area said they had ''no doubt'' the rebels were responsible. A10 
 
News analysis: The muted response to the killing of two nuns in Nicaragua by the Bush Administration sharply contrasts its reaction the killing of an American marine by Panamanian soldiers just two weeks ago. A10
 
Ex-Bolivian aide who is a drug suspect denied bond A11
 
Moscow sent troops to Azerbaijan to reinforce its forces along its borde with Iran after more reports of violent protests by angry crowds demanding an open frontier. A1
 
A delay of Rumania's elections planned for April has been requested by some of the nation's nascent political parties. Opposition leaders say they need more time to organize strategy and support. A14
 
The legacy of the shattered economy left by Nicolae Ceausescu now confronts the Rumanians grappling with ways to turn their street revolt into a broader transformation. A14
 
Whispered no longer, hearsay jolts Bucharest A14
 
President Vaclav Havel's amnesty for 20,000 prisoners has decimated the work force at the nation's biggest auto maker. Dependent on convict labor, factories like the Skoda plant, which exports 50,000 cars a year, have been paralyzed. A15
 
Assassination attempt in Lebanon fails A3
 
Oil spill cleanup continues; defects in Iranian tanker cited A3
 
Stiff security for militant as trial in Gaza Strip opens A5
 
China won't release two dissidents, Fang Lizhi and Li Shuxian, who sought refuge in the U.S. Embassy in Beijing after the June crackdown, contrary to recent reports, the Government said. A8
 
Vietnam's Secretary General will resign, Communists say A6
 
U.S. judge limits damages for Pan Am suits A3
 
National A16-21, D20
 
The Resolution Trust Corporation, created to manage the massive savings and loan bailout, was ordered by the Bush Administration to sell the real estate it inherited from hundreds of defaulted savings institutions. A1
 
Sales of new homes surged 9.6 percent in November D1
 
Drug gangs' recruitment of dealers in Chicago is becoming more aggressive and insistent. For those young people who resist, the threats from gangs are as ominous as any anti-drug message. A1
 
Barbara Bush is being treated with low-level doses of radiation to relieve persistent double vision, discomfort and tears stemming from a thyroid condition. D20
 
Secretary of Labor Elizabeth Dole has begun modifying Govenment policy toward labor. In the Pittston strike, she acknowledged the value of collective bargaining, and she has pushed for worker safety. A16
 
Mafia prosecutors quitting as strike force disbands A18
 
Fewer AIDS cases than estimated are expected in the next three years, according to a report by the Federal Centers for Disease Control. Researchers are arguing fiercely about the causes of the decline. D20
 
An AIDS patient was shot by a friend and killed in a Los Angeles hospital room. The friend then committed suicide. D20
 
A ferocious dinosaur predating Tyrannosaurus rex is found A21
 
Campbell hires a new chief executive D1
 
Sematech today: A cash dispenser D1
 
G.M. displays the Impact, an advanced electric car D1
 
Regional B1-5
 
The hiring of 1,848 police recruits who were to have entered the Police Academy this month will be delayed indefinitely, Mayor David Dinkins said in his first major act as Mayor. A1
 
Edward I. Koch's new home is no Gracie Mansion, but it's bigger - and better furnished - than the $475.49-a-month rent-stabilized apartment in Greenwich Village he vowed he would never give up. B1
 
City Council, with new powers, affirms raises for its members B2
 
Chancellor takes city cars away from 14 school board officials B3
 
A health insurance plan for children in New York State and an overhaul of the way the state distributes education aid were proposed by Gov. Mario Cuomo during his eighth State of the State address. A1
 
Excerpts from Cuomo's State of the State address B4
 
Cuomo defuses a protest and still makes a point B5
 
A ruptured underwater pipeline has leaked as much as 500,000 gallons of heating oil into the Arthur Kill between Staten Island and New Jersey. Environmentalists say the spill is a major threat to wildlife. B1
 
Patients are being transferred from hospital to hospital for the first time by the Emergency Medical Service in an effort to find scarce beds for the seriously ill at New York City hospitals. B1
 
Opposition to premium increases proposed by New Jersey Blue Cross and Blue Shield for 605,000 subscribers has risen among organizations representing the elderly, women and minorities, who will bear most of the increase. B3
 
Bridge and tunnel tolls might go to $6 by 1993. The Port Authority has proposed the increases as part of a capital-improvement plan. PATH train fares would rise, to $1.50. B1
 
Girl, 12, is raped, burned and stabbed B3
 
Atlantic City mayor and three others are indicted B2
 
Neediest Cases B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PANAMA (96%); CHINA (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); ROMANIA (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); VIET NAM (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (67%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ASSASSINATION (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); RIOTS (78%); BONDS (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (72%); MARINE TANKERS (72%); BAIL (72%); JUDGES (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); NEW HOME SALES (70%); BAILOUTS (70%); AMNESTY (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); OIL SPILLS (61%); SAVINGS & LOANS (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



78 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Dole Winning Applause For Labor Dept. Actions

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3

 BODY:
With her help this week in reaching an agreement in the coal miners' strike in Appalachia, Secretary of Labor Elizabeth Dole has taken a step toward ending a bleak period for organized labor in its relations with the Government.
Trade unionists are hardly proclaiming a return to their salad days, but they acknowledge that Mrs. Dole, and by implication President Bush, have made a bow to them in the tone of her office and in modifications of policy that mark at least a modest break from Ronald Reagan's hands-off attitude toward disputes between businesses and unions.
Certainly there is no return to the cozy relationship between labor and Government that characterized the eras of Franklin D. Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy; unionists still seethe over the refusal of Mrs. Dole and the Administration to step into the Eastern Airlines strike. But there is now at least more of the mutual respect that unions experienced with Republican Presidents before Mr. Reagan.
Most important, this week Mrs. Dole acknowledged the value of collective bargaining, organized labor's essential tool in negotiating with management. President Reagan, alone among Presidents since the 1930's, in effect repudiated collective bargaining nine years ago when he refused to talk with 11,500 striking air traffic controllers unless they returned to work. The move broke their union. 
Less noticed in Mrs. Dole's first year, but also important, is the Administration's new emphasis on worker safety. A downward trend in spending at the Occupational Safety and Health Administration was reversed last year, fines for health and safety violations rose and many regulations are being more tightly enforced.
 
'A Lot of Common Ground'
''We're going to have to agree to disagree on some issues, but there's a lot of common ground,'' Mrs. Dole said of her own labor policy. John Duray, spokesman for the United Mine Workers, said of the agreement that the miners union and the Pittston Company announced Monday, ''It's a significant thing that she was willing to take a chance and step out in a different direction than has been the norm of the last 10 years.''
Days before the Pittston announcement, Lane Kirkland, president of the A.F.L-C.I.O. said he found the Bush Administration ''a little more civilized'' than Mr. Reagan's and ''less intensely ideological.''
''I think we've survived as bad as they could do,'' Mr. Kirkland said of the Reagan era, ''and in pretty good shape.''
After a year of out of the limelight in the Labor Department, Mrs. Dole, a 53-year-old Harvard-educated lawyer, may have begun to live up to the early notices that greeted her appointment.
The Administration's highest-ranking woman, who served in President Reagan's Cabinet as Transportation Secretary, negotiated a compromise with Mr. Kirkland on the President's proposal for the minimum wage increase, from $3.35 currently to $4.25 over two years. And a White House official said she held off an alternative proposal by Vice President Quayle.
''It was Elizabeth who urged the President to state his position and say there was no negotiating,'' said Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum, Republican of Kansas. Mrs. Dole said: ''I planned the strategy. I took it to the President. He agreed with the strategy.''
 
Stepped Aside on Eastern
Early in the Administration when the start of the Eastern strike on March 4 gave her an opportunity to seize the reins of an issue, she balked, or the White House balked for her. Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner took it on instead, and a former senior Reagan Administration official said Mr. Skinner did so because the White House wanted to protect Mrs. Dole from trade union brickbats so early in her tenure, when she was just opening her lines to labor.
But Mrs. Dole denies it. ''I went to the President, as did Sam Skinner,'' she said. ''In a situation like that, safety becomes very important, and because of the safety aspects, I told Sam to take it.''
To the extent that deeds and priorities can be measured in money, Mrs. Dole's biggest shift from the Reagan years has less to do with strikes than with workplace safety. Year after year, the last Administration whittled away the budget of the Labor Department's Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
But despite the spending constraints on most Government departments, OSHA's budget went up last year for the first time in eight, in part because of $14.9 million Mrs. Dole obtained to hire 179 more officers to enforce the health and and safety laws. And in the President's next budget, Administration officials say, OSHA will have a significant increase, exceeding the rate of inflation.
The fines levied under Mrs. Dole against employers who violate health and safety regulations are often reduced when the employers agree to do more to comply. Even so, her department's fines are running at an annual $60 million, as against $14 million in the Reagan years.
 
Some Issues Still Untouched
OSHA's Administrator, Gerard F. Scannell, says he is studying ways to revise the laws to impose still stiffer fines on industries like construction, and the agency has also been enacting proposals to tighten regulations that had rattled around its bureaucracy, ignored, in the Reagan years.
OSHA aside, Mrs. Dole has left a wide variety of labor-related issues largely or entirely untouched by policy initiatives. Among them are the Reagan precedent of breaking strikes with replacement workers, increasing violations of the child labor and migrant worker laws, and the lively new question of employee incentives like profit sharing.
Even so, in the nine-month Pittston strike in Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky, Mrs. Dole showed unequivocal respect for the process of collective bargaining. In her statement announcing the tentative agreement, she said, ''Today's settlement is a victory for the collective bargaining process - a process which over the years has resulted in protection for all workers, stronger businesses and greater cooperation between management and labor.''
Interestingly, in deciding in late October to intervene in the Pittston strike, Mrs. Dole, who began her political career as a Democrat, turned not to her own Administration or her own party but to a proponents of collective bargaining and Government intervention from the past, W. J. Usery Jr., a Democrat who was Labor Secretary under President Ford.
Mrs. Dole helped lubricate the deal in another way. She acknowledged that the most devisive issue in the strike, Pittston's halting of contributions to the health plans of retired miners and interest in negotiating a less costly plan, raised bigger questions than those involved in the strike. Health care costs pose problems for many employers and unions, so she agreed to appoint a commission to examine the issue.
 
Stirring Up a Hot Question
Labor Department officials say she has no intention of adopting the solution sought by some Democrats in Congress, some unions and even some companies: the Government's assumption of some of the health-cost burden. But in even appointing the commission, she is likely to stir the debate over national health insurance, which is anathema to most Republicans Administrations.
In the Pittston strike, Elizabeth Dole (she says she has been trying to shed the nickname ''Liddy'' since college) disclosed a style that both sides said they admired. For months after the strike began on April 5, Richard L. Trumka, president of the United Mine Workers Union, and Paul W. Douglas, chairman of Pittston, has refused to sit in the same room, much less talk.
Upon deciding to intervene, Mrs. Dole called them together to her office and subsequently obtained their endorsement of Mr. Usery. ''People come steaming into her office,'' said Representative Patricia Schroeder, Democrat of Colorado, who attended Harvard Law School with Mrs. Dole, ''and then she pulls their little steam plugs.''
Labor leaders warn against assuming that the woman from the party of business is changing her stripes, or that even if she did, it would make any difference.
''While her instincts may be good,'' said Victor Gotbaum, retired leader of New York's municipal workers, ''she is inhibited by a President who's much more comfortable with business than he is with labor. Bush is softer than Reagan, but that doesn't mean he's soft.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole, who, with her help this week in settling the coal miners' strike, has moved toward ending a bleak period for organized labor in its relations with the Government. (NYT/Andrea Mohin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BCO (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (64%); SIC7382 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BRINK'S CO (64%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (56%); OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US)

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MINE WORKERS (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (86%); STRIKES (78%); COAL MINING (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (75%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (68%); TRENDS (64%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DOLE, ELIZABETH HANFORD (SEC); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON ELIZABETH DOLE (94%); RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



79 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Salvadoran Coffee Boycott Does Harm

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''In response to a consumer group, the Nestle Foods Corporation, maker of a top-selling instant coffee, said yesterday that it was suspending for 30 days the purchase of coffee beans from El Salvador'' (Business Day, Dec. 12).
News media reports such as this show an attempt by a group known as Neighbor to Neighbor to bring pressure on the Government of El Salvador by urging United States coffee manufacturers to cease using Salvadoran coffee in their blends. Obviously, the coffee roasters themselves must decide how to respond to those highhanded tactics. 
Beyond that, however, is the more important question of who would be helped by a boycott of Salvadoran coffee and who would be hurt.
In the last few days, the presidents of five Central American countries have been able to reach a tentative agreement to begin a peace process in the region. Hopefully, the United States will support the peace process. God knows the people of the Central American nations have suffered more than enough.
But public interest groups also bear responsibility in not pursuing efforts that upset the delicate balance. Boycotting coffee from El Salvador will hurt the people who depend on the commodity for their livelihood and appear aimed at further damaging the economy of El Salvador, a nation with a duly elected democratic government that is struggling against the tyranny of fanatical extremists.
The economy of El Salvador was damaged enough by the drastic fall in coffee prices after the collapse of the international coffee agreement. Salvadoran coffee will continue to be in demand for its excellent quality, and United States consumers should be allowed to enjoy it as part of their daily consumption. Let our neighbors help and not hamper the peace process in El Salvador.
Gallant efforts are now being made by the Central American leaders to end the suffering and repression. They should be encouraged and assisted by all people of good will, and not hampered and obstructed by outside forces that are merely seeking to upset democracy where it now exists.
 
MIGUEL A. SALAVERRIA
Ambassador, Republic of El Salvador
 Washington, Dec. 14, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311320 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (58%); 

COUNTRY: EL SALVADOR (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); 

COMPANY: NESTLE FOODS CORP (93%); NEIGHBOR TO NEIGHBOR (57%); NEIGHBOR TO NEIGHBOR (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NESTLE FOODS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EL SALVADOR

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; COFFEE; BOYCOTTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET FOOD INDUSTRY (92%); COFFEE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); 

PERSON: SALAVERRIA, MIGUEL A (AMB)



80 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1839 words

HEADLINE: The Soviets' Terminal Crisis

BYLINE: By 'Z'

 BODY:
The following article is adapted from the conclusion of a longer historical analysis to be published under the pseudonym ''Z'' in the winter issue of Daedalus, journal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Daedalus is withholding the author's name from all parties at the author's request. (Although it is not The New York Times's usual practice to withhold an author's identity, it is honoring Daedalus's commitment.)
It is clear that 1989 will enter history as the beginning of Communism's terminal crisis, and not just in Russia but from the Baltic to the China Sea, and from Berlin to Beijing.
It is also clear that perestroika and glasnost, welcome in their intention, have in their application only aggravated the systemic crisis they were intended to alleviate. They have done so because, like all forms of soft Communism, they go against the logic of the system they are trying to save. 
Mikhail Gorbachev has been trying to promote soft Communism through structures and a population programmed for hard Communism. But the latter is the only variety of Sovietism that is the genuine article, for the essence of all varieties of Sovietism is party supremacy. Thus, the instrument of Mr. Gorbachev's reform - the party - is the basic cause of Sovietism's troubles.
The way out of this contradiction? As one Soviet reformer put it after the June Congress: ''The country now stands at a crossroads. From here we either go the Chinese way or the Polish-Hungarian way.'' Although he obviously wished for the latter course, the alternative he posed may well be a Hobson's choice.
The Chinese way since June 1989 means relative, though now declining, market prosperity under a regime of political and military repression. Repression is certainly a possibility in Russia, but market prosperity is out of the question for the indefinite future. Conversely, the Polish-Hungarian way means genuine democracy, but in the midst of economic ruin so severe as to threaten the survival of the new constitutional order.
In Russia, the economic ruin is even worse than in Poland and Hungary, but real democracy, as opposed to mere democratization, is not even on the agenda. Thus, the Russian way could well combine the worst of the Chinese and the Central European scenarios: economic failure in conjunction with an inexpungeable leading role for the party.
Indeed, all paths of Communist reform seem to end in one or another type of impasse. Leninist regimes, when they enter their final decline, seem able only either to implode, as in Poland, Hungary, East Germany, Czechoslovakia and Rumania, or to dig in their heels militarily to stave off implosion, as under Deng Xiaoping in 1989. And this grim impasse at the end of utopia in power is the outcome of the structures that power built. The whole impossible enterprise of Lenin and Stalin was sustainable only as long as the human and material resources on which the system fed retained the vitality to endure the burden of the regime, and as long as some modicum of material success undergirded the party's monopolistic position.
When these conditions ceased to hold, beginning with Deng Xiaoping's marketization of 1979 and Solidarity's revolt of 1980, the Communist parties' will to power began to flag and their people's habit of fear began to fade. For the Soviet party-state's survival, this development soon made necessary the expedients of perestroika and glasnost. But these are only pale substitutes for the market and democracy, halfway measures designed to square the circle of making the vivifying forces of a resurrected civil society compatible with the party's leading role.
But this circle cannot be squared. If marketization and privatization are the economic goals of reform, then party planning becomes superfluous, indeed downright parasitical. If multiple parties, elections and the rule of law are the political goals of reform, then the dual administration of the party-state becomes supernumerary, indeed positively noxious.
There is no third way between Leninism and the market, between Bolshevism and constitutional government. Marketization and democratization lead to the revival of civil society, and such a society requires the rule of law. But civil society under the rule of law is incompatible with the preservation of the lawless leading role of the party.
At some point, therefore, the line will be reached where reform crosses over into the liquidation of the leading role and all the structures it has created. Russia and Central Europe are reaching that critical line. The false problem of how to restructure Leninism is now giving way to the real problem of how to dismantle the system, how to effect at last an exit from Communism. Perestroika is not a solution but a transition to this exit. As Milovan Djilas foresaw early in perestroika, Communism is not reforming itself - it is disintegrating.
So, as we rub our eyes in astonishment at the most stunning Communist implosion of all, the collapse of the Berlin wall, we should not conclude that the structures it shielded for so long can be transformed by a few reform decrees. The revolutionary rapidity of events in 1989 should not breed the illusion that the exit from Communism these events presage will itself be rapid.
And the most difficult case of all will be the Soviet Union. Russia, after all, has had 70, not 45 years of Sovietism. Also, the Soviet party is a national institution, not an alien imposition, with deep roots in the patriotic success of World War II. Finally, this national-imperial party has the military apparatus of a superpower.
Can Mr. Gorbachev succeed? Should we help him? To answer these questions meaningfully, we must first rephrase them. Succeed at what? Help him to do what? If by perestroika's success we mean producing a Communist system that is economically effective and politically democratic, then the answer must be no. The fundamental structures of the Leninist system reached an inextricable impasse at the end of the 1970's, and the mounting contradictions of perestroika indicate that the system cannot be restructured or reformed, but can only either stagnate or be dismantled and replaced by market institutions over a long period of time.
In this case, any aid the West might render to the Soviet state to save or improve the existing system would be futile: On this score, Mr. Gorbachev is beyond our help. Such aid would also work against the real interests of the restive Soviet peoples and thus of international stability. Like Western credits to Poland in the 1970's, aid to the Soviet Government would only prolong the agony.
Yet, if by perestroika's success we mean effecting a transition from a party-state and a command economy to democracy and the market, then the answer, unfortunately, must still be no. First, such a transition is not the aim of perestroika; its aim, rather, is to salvage what can be saved of the system by halfway-house concessions to economic and human reality.
Second, and even more important, such a transition would bring the end of the cardinal leading role and hence would amount to the self-liquidation of Communism, something Mr. Gorbachev clearly does not intend to do.
Still, events are pressing toward the eventual dwindling away of the system, whatever the Soviet leadership's intentions and whoever that leader might be in the future. And here Western help could play a constructive role.
First, reducing the mutual burden of armaments, if carried out with due attention to legitimate security concerns, would ease the severity of the Soviet crisis (though it would not alter its structural causes). And Mr. Gorbachev has clearly indicated his willingness to engage in arms reductions, while taking care that the Soviet Union's international retreat does not turn into a rout.
Second, although Western aid should not go to shoring up Soviet economic institutions in the state sector, it could be usefully applied to the piecemeal development of parallel structures in a private sector operating on market principles so as to promote economic and, eventually, political pluralism. This could take the form, say, of free economic zones operating under International Monetary Fund conditions in such places as the Baltic states, Armenia or the Soviet Far East. In this case, the expectation would be that such a parallel sector, perhaps with its own convertible currency, would eventually spread across the Soviet Union.
Such a policy is, indeed, a modest approximation of the approach that the Government is now inaugurating in Poland. But what Mr. Gorbachev is prepared to accept for his outer empire in Central Europe (where he effectively lost control sometime in 1988) would be much more difficult for him to accept for the inner empire of the Soviet Union itself, since foreign investment would imperil national sovereignty.
So Western investment, in joint or other enterprises in Russia, would have to be handled without triumphalism about capitalism's superiority, and with due sensitivity to Soviet national pride. The West's aim should be to encourage the change of Soviet realities while leaving the old labels intact - in a kind of socialist-emperor-of-Japan arrangement.
Yet, however the Soviet Union edges toward its particular exit from Communism, this uncharted process can only be long and painful. Nor will it be a unilinear or an incremental progress toward integration in some ''common European home.'' Instead, further crises will most likely be necessary to produce further, and more real, reforms. And a last-ditch attempt to stave off ruin by curtailing destabilizing reform altogether could lead to that military reaction so feared by Moscow liberals.
And - who knows - in this scenario Mr. Gorbachev might be agile enough to become his own successor, or if perestroika ends in another 18th of Brumaire, to be his own Bonaparte. Mr. Gorbachev would be hard to replace, because his international reputation is now the Soviet Union's chief capital asset; yet, he could not afford to be a very tough Bonaparte, since he has become the prisoner of his foreign policy successes.
Obviously, none of these prospects is a cheering one, and none would be easy for the West to live alongside. But it is better to look realistically at the genuine options in the East as they have been molded by 70 years of failed utopia than to engage in fantasies about Mr. Gorbachev as a demiurge of instant democracy or about the end of conflict in history. Nor should we forget that Communism, though a disaster in almost every creative domain, has always been supremely successful at one thing: resourcefulness and tenacity in holding onto its monopoly of power.
The Soviet world's transition to normality will be a long time coming. The party, though now dyed with the hues of glasnost and democratization, will cling to the bitter end, like some poisoned tunic of Nessus, around the bodies of nations it has enfolded in its embrace for so many decades.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (56%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS & SCIENCES (84%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS & SCIENCES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAEDALUS (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: Z (PSEUDONYM); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (69%); 



81 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Cuomo's Address: 'Journey Toward the Next Millennium'

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the text of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's State of the State address to the Legislature yesterday:
Today we take the first steps into the last decade between us and the 21st century.
From here, we can see the outlines of a bright and exciting new time of progress -for our state, our nation and the world beyond.
You and I have been working together to prepare for this moment for seven years.
In 1983, the first time I had the privilege of addressing you, the state was still feeling aftershocks of our economic crisis in the 70's. We had to close a potential deficit of nearly $2 billion. 
We knew, despite that, that if we were to make ourselves ready for the challenges and opportunities ahead, we needed to further reduce our state income taxes and to put more people to work. We knew we would have to rebuild roads and bridges, cleanse and preserve our environment, revitalize our schools, reorganize our criminal justice system and adapt our human services to new, rapidly changing realities.
 
Crack and Violent Crime
The challenge was actually even greater.
Unexpectedly, a terrible new drug, crack, appeared on the streets and brought with it a surge of violent crime. Homelessness appeared across the nation on a scale unseen since the Great Depression. The lethal syndrome, AIDS, spread with frightening effect.
And just when we needed its help most, Washington withdrew resources that we required to deal with these problems. These were awesome challenges. But we were not intimidated. Nor did we use the Federal Government's failure to help as an excuse. Instead, you and I went to work. We put aside the unimportant differences between us, and developed a new, vibrant ethic of cooperation - a new sense of family. ...
Together we produced the two largest tax cuts in our history and the lowest income tax rate in 30 years. ...
Our investments in our fight against alcohol and drug abuse and related crime are up 400 percent. We nearly doubled our prison cells and developed the largest drug and alcohol treatment system in the nation, serving 100,000 people a day. ...
We agreed we should lead in protecting the environment. Together we created the first controls on acid rain implemented in the nation; the first energy plan integrated with environmental needs; a huge environmental bond issue; aggressive recycling and landfill-control programs. Thousands of acres of our natural beauty acquired and preserved.
There's more. Governments are often judged by the bricks and mortar they leave behind. By that measure, you - and I -would do especially well. We created a dynamic period of construction - nearly $50 billion worth of bricks and mortar. ...
Washington now admits states have a cluster of extraordinary national problems like drugs and inadequate education. But Washington says it can't help with national resources because they must go to huge Federal income tax cuts that help a lot of people, mostly the richest. Actually, this only shifts the burden on to the states and the real-estate and sales taxes that hurt a lot of people, but the middle class and poor most of all.
 
Large Potential Deficits
That has hurt us. Now the weakness of the national economy is hurting us more.
As a result, much of the Northeast, including New York, today faces large potential deficits.
We will not have the revenues to satisfy all the demands upon us, or even our own desires. ...
The Anti-Drug-Abuse Council headed by the Lieutenant Governor has submitted an excellent, comprehensive report.
In recent days it has taken on new relevance because a number of well-known people have advocated legalizing drugs. . . .
Let me say as clearly as I can: I reject this idea as the abandonment of a whole generation of children, and adults, now caught in addiction - and of generations to come as well. I would not do it to my children. We ought not let the state do it to our children.
Instead of surrendering, I will recommend strengthening every part of our drug effort -law enforcement, education, treatment, prevention. My agenda in 1990 will include an unprecedented expansion of our alcohol and drug treatment capacity: 15,000 new residential treatment beds, and outpatient treatment for 20,000 additional people. We will give special attention to pregnant women and mothers with young children. ...
Despite the immense resources we have committed, our health care system is hurting, and so are some of the people it is meant to serve.
 
Reimbursement Rates
We need new and better ways to deal with reimbursement rates, to ease health personnel shortages, to regulate the system, and to communicate with the men and women who make the system work.
One thing is particularly apparent: adequate primary care in the community - prevention and early intervention - will reduce illness and help limit the overwhelming expense of hospital care.
It's also clear that we must do more for the 2.5 million New Yorkers who are among the 37 million Americans with no health insurance of any kind.
This year, in the third year of the Decade of the Child, I will propose a new program, a unique one, I believe. I call it New York Child, for children's health insurance for lifelong development. It will help cover every uninsured child in this state from birth through age 17, for primary and preventive care, and catastrophic illness. . . .
I will propose as well, a neighborhood-based initiative to improve services for pregnant women, new parents and at-risk children in our most disadvantaged communities. ...
I propose we try a new performance-oriented approach to public education: providing clear goals and effective measurement of student achievement; evaluating schools by improvement in student performance, and not by technical compliance with the words of state mandates. I will offer a program to demonstrate how this can work.
 
Most Vulnerable People
As we journey toward the next millennium, we must continue to serve the needs of our most vulnerable people.
I will ask you for a new supplement to S.S.I. for persons with AIDS who are in special adult care facilities. We will expand prevention efforts for high-risk adolescents, women and young children; increase help for incarcerated or paroled persons with AIDS; and expand support for the community organizations, which serve as our front line of defense.
And we have a solid new program this year, begun jointly by the state and H.E.L.P., Andrew Cuomo's not-for-profit corporation. It is the first public residential health care facility for persons with AIDS in the country. It will provide 66 beds. We will replicate this cost-effective prototype to create hundreds of other beds. ...
As part of our long-term plan to assist the homeless mentally ill, we'll work with New York City to develop additional beds, including new S.R.O. and supported housing units, and we'll expand and improve services for people with disabilities. . . . ...
I have asked our director of economic development, Vincent Tese, to invigorate our promotion of exports - emphasizing high technology and agriculture - and to expand our current international partnership program. Our extensive ''Global New York'' agenda will be a centerpiece of our work in the months ahead. ...
I spoke earlier of all we accomplished in protecting our environment. It's time now for another solid down payment on a better and more beautiful future for the generations to follow us.
We all agree on the importance of these things: helping local governments deal with solid waste; preserving environmentally sensitive lands, maintaining our magnificent parks and historic treasures. To do all these things, I will ask your support for a 21st century environmental bond issue of $1.9 billion. . . .
 
Initiative and Referendum
But let me mention a few more particulars:
* Raising workers' compensation benefits and the minimum wage.
* Extending - this month - the protections for Mitchell-Lama residents, or tens of thousands of people could lose their homes.
* A strong law against bias-related violence. New ways to discourage investment in South Africa. A law banning assault weapons, and a law establishing life imprisonment without parole.
As freedom and democracy are enjoying a rebirth around the world, we should strengthen them here, at the source.
I will ask you to give New Yorkers an important extension of their right to participate in their government, with a limited initiative and referendum. It would require us to vote publicly - one way or the other - on proposals the citizens indicate by petition they believe to be particularly significant. ...
If we only understand this bright new change fully and use it well, historians a hundred years from now will look back and write about the political miracle of the 20th century. ...
Think of it. If we could reaffirm the notion of family and reject, as we always have at our best, the proposition that we can exist and thrive as a house divided - or a world divided, fractionalized - by sex, or nationality, or race, or color, or religion. If we could rouse ourselves from indifference toward the growing gap between our wealthiest and most fortunate citizens, and those who continue to struggle.
If we could wean ourselves from a national addiction that has made our country the prime market for the world's drug trade.
If all those who wound up in treatment centers or prisons were instead working in laboratories or factories or offices, using their gifts productively, helping themselves and the rest of us.
 
Going Forward
Imagine then, what we could do in this state, and in this nation.
Then, someday, not too long from now, another governor could stand here and tell his audience - no, tell her audience - that we, the generations that endured depression and global war and the decades-long threat of nuclear destruction, never lost hope and never stopped going forward.
That we took, always, as our continuing inspiration the words of a great New York poet, Walt Whitman, who beckoned us to come still further, by reminding us that ''the strongest and sweetest songs yet remain to be sung.''
Let us sing them, together.

GRAPHIC: photo: In his address, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo proposed a health insurance program for children and an overhaul of the method the state uses to distrubute education aid. (NYT/David Jennings)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NYS); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (88%); INCOME TAX (88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (87%); MILLENNIUM (77%); TAX RELIEF (73%); CRIMINAL LAW (72%); LANDFILLS (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); VIOLENT CRIME (72%); ETHICS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (66%); HOMELESSNESS (65%); BONDS (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (63%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (61%); ACID RAIN (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MARIO M CUOMO (63%); 



82 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Ben Reifel, 83, Dies; Former Congressman

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SIOUX FALLS, S.D., Jan. 3

 BODY:
Ben Reifel, the first Sioux Indian elected to the United States House of Representatives, died of cancer on Tuesday at Sioux Valley Hospital in Sioux Falls. He was 83 years old. 
A Rosebud Sioux, he worked for the Department of Interior for 23 years, resigning in 1960 as an area administrator for the Bureau of Indian Affairs to win a seat in Congress as a Republican. He stepped down after five two-year terms.
He was instrumental in having the Earth Resources Observation Systems center located in South Dakota and in keeping Ellsworth Air Force Base an active military base in the state.
He was born on a log cabin on a Sioux reservation, which he left to attend South Dakota State College. He received a bachelor's degree there and master's and doctoral degrees in economics and government at Harvard University.
Mr. Reifel served in the Army in Europe in World War II as a lieutenant colonel.
He is survived by his wife, Frances; a daughter and a stepdaughter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (84%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (84%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (58%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); DEATHS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); ARMED FORCES (86%); ARMIES (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (85%); WORLD WAR II (68%); AIR FORCES (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: REIFEL, BEN BEN REIFEL (92%); 



83 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Tyson Says He Overcame Drinking Habit

BYLINE: By PHIL BERGER

 BODY:
Mike Tyson says he had a drinking habit that intensified after Robin Givens filed for divorce in October 1988, but that he has stopped drinking entirely.
''I guess maybe it was an outlet,'' said Tyson of his alcohol consumption. ''People were telling me drinking doesn't solve anything. But at the time, it solved a lot of problems. When I was sober, I had headaches, my heart was throbbing. A couple of swigs would totally change it around.'' What made him stop drinking ? ''I didn't like my performance against Bruno,'' said Tyson. 
Last February, Tyson knocked out Frank Bruno in five rounds, but was not impressive in doing so.
Tyson said he drank up until he began training in December 1988 for the Bruno fight.
''Drink was a crutch,'' said Tyson. ''No more. Part of why I drank was that the old-time fighters used to. They'd hang out and gallivant.'' Tyson has had an abiding interest in and warm feeling toward the fighters of the early decades of this century.
''I figured,'' said Tyson, ''if I could win on booze, I could do a lot better on the wagon.''
Tyson's promoter, Don King, says he gave up alcohol when Tyson did.
''Years ago,'' said King, ''I'd drink gin and ginger ale, but a reporter I was sitting with one day said to me: 'Who drinks this?' So I went to vodka and ginger ale.
''Anyway, when Mike told me he was stopping, I said I'd stop, too. And I have. We monitor each other. Neither of us wants to give in. Or show weakness.''
 
Optimism on Tyson-Holyfield
Negotiations for a Tyson-Evander Holyfield fight are intensifying.
Holyfield's representatives - Dan Duva, the promoter, and Shelly Finkel, the adviser - were due in Las Vegas, Nev., yesterday to meet with King and see if a deal could be closed on a June 18 bout between the heavyweight champion and Holyfield.
Until this week, Finkel had been the designated negotiator for the Holyfield camp, a position that fell to him because it was feared that the deep hostility between Duva and King might stymie progress.
The fact that Duva was set to join the negotiations seemed to signal that the talks were at a critical juncture. Kathy Duva, who handles public relations for her husband, said: ''Dan felt the deal was close enough that it was worth a face-to-face. I know he doesn't go on wild goose chases very often.''
Finkel said that there were still some details to work out, but that he was optimistic the deal would be signed before King and Tyson leave for Tokyo later this month, in advance of the Feb. 11 Tyson-Buster Douglas bout there. A Contract Ache? Rumors persist that the back injury that caused Michael Nunn to postpone his Jan. 27 fight against Marlon Starling was bogus and that the real problem the International Boxing Federation middleweight champion is having is with his manager, Dan Goossen.
According to those rumors, Nunn wants out of his managerial contract so that he can take economic advantage of his new deal with Steve Wynn's Mirage Casino in Las Vegas. Wynn reportedly wants only to recover his site fee and expenses from bouts staged at the Mirage, leaving the rest of the rights revenues to the boxers. Cutting out Goossen would increase Nunn's share even more.
''As far as I know,'' said Goossen, ''It's not true. Nunn hasn't told me that.''
Goossen said his deal with Nunn runs until November of this year and that there had been ''some news about us renegotiating when it's through.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (72%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BOXING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); BOXING (74%); 

PERSON: BERGER, PHIL; TYSON, MIKE MIKE TYSON (94%); DONALD 'DON' KING (67%); 



84 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 17, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: The Peabody, Ready or Not, Is Pushed to Go Out on Its Own

BYLINE: By BERNARD HOLLAND, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
One of cultural Baltimore's favorite sons is in danger of becoming its fiscal orphan. The Peabody Conservatory, a source of civic pride since 1857, is suffering its biggest crisis since Johns Hopkins University rescued it from extinction 12 years ago.
Johns Hopkins, Peabody's affluent neighbor, has subsidized most of the music school's increasing deficits since 1977 - a sum exceeding $20 million. Now faced with money pressures of its own, Johns Hopkins has tendered a plan that would drastically reduce the university's support and nudge Peabody in the direction of self-sufficiency. One of Maryland's most powerful politicians, however, has other ideas for its future.
Peabody, an affiliate of Johns Hopkins, is ranked close to such elite music schools as Juilliard, Curtis, Eastman, Oberlin, Michigan and Indiana. It has produced graduates like the composers Dominick Argento and Philip Glass; Richard Cassilly, the tenor; the popular singer Roberta Flack; James Morris, an internationally known bass; Hugh Wolff, the conductor; the pianist Andre Watts; the band leader Tommy Newsome, and Virgil Fox, the organist. 
Peabody graduates perform in the Boston, St. Louis, San Francisco and Baltimore Symphonies and play a big part in the symphonic and educational life of Maryland. Peabody has traditionally been known as the music school that attracts talent from the Southeastern states.
 
An Unlikely Ally
But the school, it is generally agreed, has fed for 40 years on its reputation and its previous endowment. Fund-raising has been negligible, principal has been spent to pay annual deficits, and buildings, faculty salaries and morale have deteriorated. Peabody's current endowment is $10 million, a fraction of the reserves held by Juilliard or Curtis.
Peabody has found an unlikely ally in Melvin A. Steinberg, Maryland's Lieutenant Governor. Mr. Steinberg - neither an educator nor an arts figure but a hard-nosed politician - has been heading a state task force to rescue Peabody as a private institution and restore its health.
Filled with enthusiasm and armed with political cunning, Mr. Steinberg has devised a fragile plan that would twist the arms of Johns Hopkins, the Legislature and the private sector with just enough pleasurable pain to get the school through its immediate dangers and raise an endowment of $80 million by the next century.
The Steinberg plan, which needs legislative approval, consists of a series of offers he hopes all parties will accept. Under the plan, the state will put up $15 million and Peabody will put up its art collection as collateral. The collection, mainly American masters in museums around the city, is not to be touched. If Peabody does not live up to its part of Mr. Steinberg's delicate bargain, the school will return the $15 million and get its art back.
 
Recent Signs of Life
Peabody's job is to raise $15 million on its own from the private sector by July 1, a project in which Mr. Steinberg will take an active part. The state will subsidize Peabody to the tune of $5.9 million a year until 1996, at which time Peabody is to begin a campaign to raise enough money to build a self-sustaining endowment of $80 million. Johns Hopkins will continue to address Peabody's deficits for the next few years. The $3 million that Peabody will cost Hopkins this year, if the Steinberg plan is adopted, is far above the $500,000 the university's retrenchment proposal specified. The annual burden for Johns Hopkins, however, will diminish as Peabody's endowment money comes in.
Robert O. Pierce, a former principal horn player in the Baltimore Symphony, became Peabody's director in 1981 and has tried with some success to upgrade the faculty and facilities. Money was found for a new building, now under construction, to house a library, studios and classrooms. Leon Fleischer, the pianist and teacher, has attracted students from around the world; teachers like Berl Senofsky, Sylvia Rosenberg, Earl Carlyss and Stephen Kates have brought in good string players. Some of the school's faculty members commute regularly to Baltimore at Peabody's expense.
 
Problems at Johns Hopkins
Dr. Steven Muller, president of Johns Hopkins since 1972, was both Peabody's savior in 1977 and the formulator of the plan now threatening its future. Dr. Muller has problems of his own. An educator with expansionist ideas, he started programs in the 1970's and 80's that rebuilt the physical plant of the arts and sciences division and branched out as far as Nanjing, China.
Given Johns Hopkins's recent success in raising $610 million, financing all these ventures would seem relatively easy, but Hopkins is not the usual university. Like medieval Italy, it is made up of largely autonomous medical, engineering, public health and other divisions, each entrusted with financing itself and each with a tendency to guard its own assets.
Dr. Muller, who is alternately accused of overambition and praised as a visionary, leaves office in June.
''Over half that money was raised for the medical school,'' he said. ''Ninety-seven percent comes from 2 or 3 percent of all donors, and gifts of $100,000 or more tend to be for specific purposes, to endow a chair for example. The medical school has an enormous capacity to sustain itself -research grants, gifts from grateful patients, gifts from people anticipating being patients in the future.
''Departments like the humanities or music, on the other hand, don't tend to produce affluent alumni.''
 
Borrowing for Peabody
Dr. Muller has persuaded richer divisions to help the financially weaker ones, but money has been borrowed to pay for the arts and sciences expansion and has made Peabody something of a sacrificial lamb.
After 20 years in the Legislature, Mr. Steinberg has weighed his potential supporters and opponents with care. ''I wanted a consultant's report that also talked about quality,'' he said. Joseph Polisi, the head of Juilliard, was enlisted and backed up Peabody's character and potential. He also suggested that enlarging or reducing the school's 430-student enrollment would damage the school scholastically and not improve its finances.
Mr. Steinberg's second marketing point is tradition and history. ''I don't think that any politician now in office wants to have it on his record that Peabody died on his watch,'' he said. ''Maryland has a tight financial situation now, but I'm saying that an economy of a place is based on its environment. Peabody is an important part of our environment and if we lose it, it's gone forever.''
 
The Next Step
Despite a recent $40 million fund-raising drive for the Baltimore Symphony, Mr. Steinberg doesn't think the philanthropic well is dry. Like Jacques Schlenger, the head of Peabody's board, he says he thinks the money is out there and probably resides with the same sources that have been generous in the past. ''Now I can go out and say that the government is behind this,'' Mr. Steinberg said. He indicated that Maryland's Governor, William Donald Schaefer, backs his plan, which will be presented to the Legislature this month and be resolved by early spring.
''If we had known what we were getting into in 1977, I doubt that we would have taken Peabody on,'' Dr. Muller said. In insisting that the acquisition was never intended as decorative or image-making, he admits that Johns Hopkins sometimes labors under its vast but one-note reputation for medicine. ''The question people always get when they say they went to school here is, 'And what kind of doctor are you?'

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lieut. Gov. Melvin A. Steinberg of Maryland listening as students played at the Peabody Conservatory in Baltimore. Mr. Steinberg heads a state panel on Peabody's financial rescue. (NYT/Marty Katz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE SYMPHONIES (62%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (91%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEABODY CONSERVATORY; JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (74%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); ART COLLECTING (67%); 

PERSON: HOLLAND, BERNARD PHILIP GLASS (56%); ROBERTA FLACK (56%); VIRGIL KEEL FOX (55%); ANDRE WATTS (55%); 



85 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 17, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Registers A Bonanza For 1989

BYLINE: By ALJEAN HARMETZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Jan. 3

 BODY:
Americans flocked to the movies in 1989, and spent more money at the box office than ever before. Seven films sold over $100 million worth of tickets each, the first time so many have achieved blockbuster status.
Based on industry estimates, admissions at the nation's movie theaters rose from 1.08 billion in 1988 to 1.12 billion, the highest total in five years. Moviegoers spent more than $5 billion, smashing last year's box-office record of $4.45 billion. 
Nevertheless, as the 1990's begin, Hollywood is shivering with as much dread as anticipation.
The Christmas movie business was a disaster, with ticket sales dropping 23 percent from 1988. Although theaters were thronged over the New Year's weekend, the crowds did not give much of a hint of what January and February would bring.
Next weekend - the all-important post-holiday weekend - will indicate how well the Christmas movies will hold up and whether the box-office expansion that began in June 1986 will be continuing or coming to an end.
 
Three and a Half Years of Growth
Art Murphy, the box-office analyst for the trade paper Variety, said the current three-and-a-half-year expansion was one of the two longest in the last 40 years. Typically, a three-year expansion is followed by a box-office recession.
Among the year's seven blockbusters, the runaway leader was ''Batman,'' with Jack Nicholson as the deadly Joker. Because his contract gives him a share of merchandising revenue and a fat chunk of the film rentals earned by Warner Brothers, Mr. Nicholson may make as much as $40 million for his performance.
According to Variety's figures, ''Batman'' sold more than $251 million worth of tickets, followed by Paramount's ''Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade,'' with $196 million, and Warner Brothers' ''Lethal Weapon 2,'' starring Mel Gibson as a wild cop, with $147 million.
It only takes a couple of blockbusters to make a year, and ''Batman'' and ''Lethal Weapon'' were enough to lift Warner Brothers into first place among the studios. Universal came in second on the strength of such solid hits as ''Parenthood,'' ''Field of Dreams,'' ''Uncle Buck'' and the sequel to ''Back to the Future.'' Bringing up the rear among the studios were 20th Century-Fox and Orion.
 
Disney Comedy in Fourth Place
The movie in fourth place for the year was a surprise, Disney's ''Honey, I Shrunk the Kids.'' The comedy about four children the size of bread crumbs grossed $130 million. United Artists' ''Rain Man,'' which starred Tom Cruise and Dustin Hoffman as a car salesman and his autistic savant brother, grossed $129 million during 1989. The Academy Award-winning best movie of 1988, ''Rain Man'' has grossed a grand total of $172 million.
The success of Tri-Star's ''Look Who's Talking,'' about a baby who tries to find a husband for his unmarried mother, was another surprise. The movie, which was initially rejected as a dumb idea by some Hollywood studios, has grossed $115 million so far. The movie has also been a windfall for Bruce Willis, who plays the voice of the baby. Mr. Willis took little salary but asked for a share of any profits. His reward will be $10 million.
Columbia's ''Ghostbusters II,'' although tremendously expensive to make at more than $40 million and considered a box-office disappointment, nonetheless grossed $112 million and is in seventh place. Another movie that is likely to make over $100 million is Universal's ''Back to the Future Part II,'' which has topped $95 million already, although the film is showing little of the stamina of its 1985 predecessor.
An interesting trend in 1989 was the success of movies about children, or aimed at an audience of children. Just as the aging of the movie audience began to be reflected in more serious themes and more sophisticated comedies two years ago, last year the nesting habits of the baby boom generation was being portrayed on the screen and filling seats in the neighborhood multiplexes.
 
A Comeback for Animation
In addition to ''Honey, I Shrunk the Kids'' and ''Look Who's Talking,'' Universal's ''Parenthood'' - a comedy about the pitfalls of raising children - was the eighth most successful movie of the year, grossing more than $95 million.
Animated films have made a comeback as part of this trend. Disney's ''Little Mermaid,'' has grossed nearly $50 million, including more than $9 million last weekend, and is well on its way to overtaking last year's ''Oliver and Company'' as the top-grossing animated feature. Despite bad reviews, Don Bluth's ''All Dogs Go to Heaven'' has grossed $21 million. And Orion's low-budget ''Prancer,'' a small, live-action picture about a reindeer who may or may not belong to Santa Claus, has sold a solid $18 million worth of tickets.
Among the movies that have fared poorly are Orion's big Christmas movie ''She-Devil,'' starring Meryl Streep and Roseanne Barr; ''We're No Angels,'' a comedy starring Sean Penn and Robert De Niro, and ''Family Business,'' with the triple star power of Sean Connery, Dustin Hoffman and Matthew Broderick. Others included Clint Eastwood's ''Pink Cadillac''; Sylvester Stallone's ''Lock Up''; Brian DePalma's Vietnam film ''Casualties of War''; Jane Fonda's ''Old Gringo,'' and ''Great Balls of Fire,'' one of the many failures that left Orion in last place.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Nicholson as the Joker in the movie ''Batman,'' which is said to have sold more than $251 million worth of tickets for Warner Brothers. Mr. Nicholson may make as much as $40 million for his performance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (50%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES TICKET SALES (92%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (73%); 

PERSON: HARMETZ, ALJEAN JACK NICHOLSON (54%); 



86 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
The new agency created to manage the huge savings and loan bailout was instructed to sell the real estate it inherited from hundreds of insolvent savings institutions as quickly as possible. While the mandate from the Bush Administration to the Resolution Trust Corporation could mean that billions of dollars in residential homes, apartment buildings, shopping centers and raw land could be available to investors in 1990, bankers warned that an overzealous sales program could do more harm than good. [Page A1.] 
 
Sales of new homes surged 9.6 percent in November, the steepest gain in four months, the Government said in a report that showed sharp gains in every region except the South. [D1.]
 
Sematech, the computer chip consortium, has been forced to become a financier as well as a coordinator of company research efforts. [D1.] The military's emphasis on low-volume, high-cost products has put high-technology companies at a commercial disadvantage, especially in competition with Japanese manufacturers, a Ford Foundation study contends. [D4.]
 
The rupture of an underwater Exxon pipeline has leaked as much as 500,000 gallons of heating oil into the Arthur Kill between Staten Island and New Jersey. And environmentalists say it poses a significant danger to wildlife in the area. [B1.]
 
COMPANIES
 
Campbell Soup named a new president and chief executive. David W. Johnson, who led a sharp turnaround at Gerber Products, is taking the helm of one of the world's largest but most troubled food companies. [D1.] The new president and chief executive of Gerber has been with the company for only nine months, but while Alfred A. Piergallini is largely unknown outside the company, he has built a solid reputation managing Gerber's operations. [D2.]
 
Merrill Lynch will sell its Canadian retail securities brokerage business to Wood Gundy, a leading Canadian investment firm. [D1.]
 
An electrically powered car being developed by General Motors could be on the market as soon as the middle of the decade. [D1.]
 
UAL is accelerating talks with its nonunion workers over a possible employee buyout. [D6.]
 
Chrysler has been talking with at least one Asian auto maker about a joint project to build a successor to its Omni-Horizon subcompacts, a company executive said. [D6.]
 
MARKETS
 
Stocks ended narrowly mixed as investors' fervor faded in the wake of Tuesday's strong advance. The Dow slipped 0.42 to close at 2,809.73. [D8.]
 
The dollar ended mixed against the primary foreign currencies, falling more than a yen against the Japanese currency and rising against the West German mark. [D16.]
 
Precious metal prices fell again, and prices of crude oil continued upward. [D16.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities skidded for the second straight session, as dealers sold securities on signs that the economy may not be as weak as many had come to believe. [D17.]
 
Yields of tax-exempt and taxable money market funds monitored by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report were up sharply for the week. [D7.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
An adviser to American subsidiaries of foreign companies cautions that Eastern European deals could take considerable time to work out. Talking Deals. [D2.]
 
The move away from Communism and toward market economies in Eastern Europe may be good news for Europeans, but some Western bankers are nervous. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
 
NBC will begin coordinating the sale of advertising time on its broadcast and cable-television networks. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (58%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (87%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); RETAILERS (76%); HEATING OIL (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (62%); METALS MARKETS (61%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (61%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (61%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (68%); 



87 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales Post 9.6% Rise

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3

 BODY:
Sales of new homes surged 9.6 percent in November, the steepest gain in four months, the Government said today in a report that showed sharp gains in every region of the nation except the South.
The Commerce Department said new single-family homes were sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 710,000 units in November after edging up a revised nine-tenths of 1 percent in October. Sales in October were originally reported to be down five-tenths of 1 percent. 
The November gain was the highest since a 14.1 percent advance in July. Sales had fallen 11.2 percent in September.
 
Credit Markets Shaken a Bit
The report rattled the credit markets, where Treasury securities prices closed down as traders viewed the data as another indication that the economy may not be as weak as initially thought, reducing the likelihood that the Federal Reserve would lower interest rates.
Analysts have been looking for a slight improvement in new-home sales as mortgage interest rates decline. Rates were higher earlier this year as a result of Federal Reserve efforts to moderate inflation by tightening credit.
''The market for new homes remains fixed, with both sales of single- family homes and starts of new homes fluctuating from month to month,'' said Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman. ''The cumulative effect of lower interest rates since their peak early in 1989 suggests that the housing market may rebound somewhat in the coming months.''
Fixed-rate mortgages averaged 9.74 percent at the end of November, according to a survey by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. They had peaked at 11.22 percent in March. But despite the lower rates, analysts say the sluggish economy stemming from the Fed action had driven away many prospective buyers.
New-home sales ran up a 29.9 percent gain in the West, the highest rate since advancing 47.7 percent in November 1981. The Mitsubishi Bank's Weekly Economic Indicator Report suggested the November figure would be partly the result of a rebound from abnormally weak sales after the Oct. 10 California earthquake.
Sales in the Midwest registered a 23.6 percent gain, the sharpest since rising 28.3 percent in July, while the Northeast posted an 8.5 percent increase. Sales in the South, however, fell 7.6 percent after a 5.7 percent increase the previous month.
 
Median Price of New Home
The Commerce Department reported that the median price of a new home was $127,000 in November, up 3.3 percent from the revised median price of $123,000 in October. The median is the point at which half the homes sold for more and half for less.
The average price of a home was $155,900, up 5.6 percent from October.
The National Association of Realtors reported last week that sales of existing single-family homes advanced 3.2 percent in November to their highest level of the year.
John A. Tuccillo, the association's chief economist, predicted then that falling mortgage rates would raise home sales in coming months as buyers take advantage of favorable financing terms.
The median price for existing homes sold in November was $93,000, the realtors group said.
New-home sales for the first 11 months of the year were down 3.5 percent from the corresponding period of 1988.

GRAPHIC: graphs of new home sales and their cost (Source: Commerce Dept.) (pgs. D1 & 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (66%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES NEW HOME SALES (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); 

PERSON: MAX MARLIN 'MARLIN' FITZWATER (54%); 



88 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1839 words

HEADLINE: Sematech Today: Cash Dispenser

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

 BODY:
Sematech, the Government-industry alliance formed two years ago to develop better ways of making computer chips, has been forced to become a financier as well as a coordinator of company research efforts.
Sematech has decided to assume the broader role because so many of the chip-equipment companies taking part in the consortium's research drive are small and in deep financial trouble, often unable to match the spending by Japanese and European rivals. The new role is proving costly for the Sematech alliance, which is financed by the Government and 14 American semiconductor makers.
Sematech believes it has little choice but to begin providing money and expertise to help develop the equipment to meet the standards it sets for chip-making equipment. As a result, Sematech's members now say, meeting the goal of becoming the world leader in this technology by 1993 will require a lot more money than the $224 million budgeted for the next year. 
Moreover, the project could still fail because its innovations might not bear fruit in time to save dozens of American makers of semiconductor manufacturing equipment either from going under or from being acquired by foreign rivals.
When it began, Sematech saw its primary job as pooling American scientific knowledge to design far more sophisticated chip-making equipment, sharing that knowledge with companies that produce chip-making equipment and then testing what those companies produce to insure that it meets high standards.
Many semiconductor and electronics executives warn that Sematech's success is crucial to American industry.
''If we don't do something pretty promptly to shore up that supplier industry, we could find ourselves a generation behind in the technology,'' said Ian M. Ross, president of Bell Laboratories, the research arm of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, a leading chip producer. ''The other possibility is that it all goes overseas, and we are all dependent on foreign suppliers.''
 
On Track Toward 1993
Despite those obstacles, Sematech members say the alliance is on track to meets its goal for 1993 of substantially improving the process for producing computer chips so that huge numbers of chips with electronic circuits 300 times finer than a human hair can be manufactured without defects. Smaller circuitry is important because more circuits can be packed onto the same number of chips, reducing costs and increasing the speed of the product by shortening the distance that electric signals must travel.
Sematech members also note that Sematech has already helped some American chip makers improve production methods. And it has dramatically changed the attitude of an American industry that had studiously avoided cooperation in the past.
Still, Sematech has its critics. Some say an independent domestic industry is not important because major chip producers like I.B.M. and A.T.&T. are sophisticated enough to improve the chip-making process and the Pentagon could always obtain advanced chips from them if foreign suppliers refused to cooperate. Others argue that the Government should not be participating in industrial projects. And some argue that even if Sematech succeeds in giving American chip makers an edge in manufacturing, the chip industry would falter anyway. They say many chip users around the world would prefer to order chips from Japanese companies with reputations for better quality and service.
 
A $50 Billion Market
The chips that Sematech is developing the tools to make are expected to be the brains of a wide variety of electronic products in the mid-1990's. Global sales for chips alone are expected by some analysts to reach $50 billion by then; for the electronic goods the chips will operate, the estimated market is $750 billion.
Many Government and industry officials warn that without the improvements that stem from an alliance like Sematech, American chip makers and electronic-goods manufacturers will continue to lose ground to Asian and European rivals. That will hurt the United States economy, where electronics is the nation's largest industry, with 2.7 million workers and 1988 sales of $279 billion.
Thousands of military products also rely on advanced chips, and Pentagon officials are concerned that in times of international tension, important foreign suppliers might decide not to sell their most advanced chips to the United States.
 
How Japan Got an Edge
Japanese companies gained their edge on American companies by reducing the time needed to devise new chip-making standards, in part because they pooled much of their production knowledge. Sematech, short for ''semiconductor manufacturing technology,'' was conceived by senior executives at several American chip makers and Pentagon officials as a forum to share that knowledge among American members.
About 220 of Sematech's 550 employees are scientists, technicians and administrators assigned by the 14 member companies, which still pay their salaries and benefits.
The consortium has already produced designs for production of chips with circuit widths of 0.5 micron, or 200 times as narrow as a human hair, and is expected to perfect the manufacturing and testing techniques before the end of 1990. The Japanese are now only slightly ahead of Sematech in this area, said Avtar Oberai, an International Business Machines Corporation executive at Sematech.
Robert N. Noyce, Sematech's chief executive, said that the production process for chip circuits at 0.5 micron should be available in 1991, and that 0.35-micron chips are on schedule for production by 1993.
 
'Working Very Well'
''Sematech is working very well,'' he said. ''Some of the early results are coming easier and faster than we had planned.''
Yet many makers of chip-making equipment and other supplies that are either working on system models and projects with Sematech or are candidates for such work are in serious financial trouble. While many still spend more than 15 percent of their sales revenue to experiment with new equipment and techniques, Japanese companies have invested twice as much on research in recent years, and have advanced their products enough to capture more of the market.
Sematech has responded to these worries with an abrupt change in spending priorities in the last year. More of its money is now going directly into research and development contracts with the cash-short equipment suppliers; this month alone, Sematech awarded five development contracts, the most since May. At the same time, Sematech is investing less to purchase equipment to conduct manufacturing experiments at Sematech's laboratories.
Sematech officials said the higher budget commitments to research grants had not caused a delay in Sematech testing programs for newly developed chip-making tools at the consortium's Austin laboratories.
Still, the officials acknowledged that difficult decisions could loom if a lack of money forced them to choose between research grants and the testing work in Austin.
But despite Sematech's efforts, many companies supplying equipment or materials to chip makers have been forced to widen their search for capital beyond American borders. This raises the prospect that they will be acquired by foreign companies, transferring abroad any gains from Sematech work.
 
'Go the Way of Other Lost Souls'
''We can't allow the bulk of profits from American technology to end up overseas, but if the Japanese or another foreign country buys us, we'll go the way of other lost souls,'' said Andrew K. Lorenz, president of Semi-Gas Systems Inc. of San Jose, Calif., which supplies half the gases and related equipment used by American-based chip makers. Semi-Gas was one of the first suppliers chosen by Sematech in the spring.
Companies in Japan, West Germany and Britain are among foreign bidders for Semi-Gas, which Hercules Inc. of Wilmington, Del., has said it plans to sell.
In the last three years, 28 domestic companies supplying equipment or materials to American chip makers have been bought by companies in Japan and Europe; 30 were acquired by American companies, and 4 closed their doors. Sematech does not work with foreign-owned suppliers, and the number of domestic companies eligible to compete for Sematech contracts is down to 130. Of that group, more than 100 have annual sales of $25 million or less.
Most of those companies have little cash to pour into costly research. Yet the next generation of chip-making technology will require a collective investment of at least $2.5 billion in the United States before any chips are sold, according to VLSI Research, a research firm in San Jose.
 
U.S. Share Dropping
American companies held half of the $8.2 billion in global sales for chip-making equipment in 1988, compared with three-quarters of a $2.1 billion market in 1980. The Japanese increased their share to 39 percent from 24 percent in that period, and are expected to take the lead in a few years, VLSI Research said.
''America cannot let that happen,'' said Robert W. Galvin, chairman of Motorola Inc., a large chip maker. ''If Sematech starts producing results, there is a rational chance that it will reinvigorate elements of the industry. We are enthusiastic.'' Last month, a panel of Government officials and industry executives urged Congress, the White House and the domestic chip makers to increase Sematech's annual budget so that the consortium could pump more money into financially fragile suppliers.
Dr. Ross of Bell Laboratories and Mr. Galvin of Motorola, both members of the panel, the National Advisory Committee on Semiconductors, said in interviews that they would soon campaign for Congress to approve more money for Sematech.
 
Government Contributions
The Government has contributed $100 million in each of the last two years; the member companies will exceed that by $24 million in 1990. They surpassed that by more than $75 million in 1989. The panel wants industry and Government to add a total of $100 million now, and $800 million over the next three years.
Still, officials in the chip-making business and the Pentagon acknowledge that money alone cannot insure that the American suppliers benefiting from Sematech research will remain in American hands in coming years. Problems beyond Sematech's influence include the rapidly growing chip markets in Asia, where trade barriers have made it difficult for American companies to compete; the higher cost of raising money in the United States, and lagging numbers of scientists and well-trained production workers in the United States.
Even as Sematech struggles to complete its mission, it has produced some tangible benefits for American chip companies. For example, the National Semiconductor Corporation, in Santa Clara, Calif., said it had built several wafer-fabrication lines in the last 18 months using documents prepared at Sematech, said Jim Owens, head of wafer production at the company. ''That definitely saved us time and money,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 22, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day on Jan. 4 about Sematech, the Government-industry alliance formed to improve ways of making computer chips, referred imprecisely to Semi-Gas Systems Inc. Despite the juxtaposition with a reference to other companies' troubles, Semi-Gas is profitable and currently has no long-term debt. The adjoining article also described part of Semi-Gas's business incorrectly. The company is the largest supplier of equipment for handling special gases used in semiconductor production; its customers include semiconductor manufacturers in many major industrial nations.

GRAPHIC: photo: Sematech is being forced to finance some of its sup-pliers that are financially troubled and are likely prospects for foreign acquisition. Andrew K. Lorenz, left, is president of Semi-Gas Systems Inc., which supplies gases and related equipment to American-based chip makers. Semi-Gas is for sale, and companies from Japan, West Germany and Britain are among the bidders. (pg. D1) (NYT/Terrence McCarthy); Dr. Robert N. Noyce, president and chief executive of Sematech. (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (53%); BELL LABORATORIES (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEMATECH (SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS; SEMICONDUCTORS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 



89 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Talking Deals;
It's Slow Going In Eastern Europe

BYLINE: By Robert J. Cole

 BODY:
THE Samsonite Corporation, the world's biggest luggage producer, has been working on a deal for six months to make luggage in Hungary for sale in Western Europe. Production is already under way, even though details of a joint venture with a Government cooperative are far from complete.
If the experience of Western experts who work closely with Eastern European officials is any guide, the details could take considerable time to work out.
Peter Rona, president and chief executive of the IBJ Schroder Bank and Trust Company, an adviser to American subsidiaries of foreign companies, discussed the complexities of Eastern European deals in a recent interview in downtown Manhattan. One client, Asea Brown Boveri A.B., the Swedish electrical giant, invested less than $10 million last year in a Hungarian transformer plant, Mr. Rona recalled, and the deal took nearly a year. 
''A year's amount of time and effort is very hard to justify in light of the size of the deal,'' he commented. ''And, technically, it's still not done.''
There are no legal approvals, permits or licenses and no accounting niceties of the Western world, he said, nor are there procedures to protect proprietary knowledge or even dismiss people in a system where, until now, workers were guaranteed employment for life.
Raising a problem facing all companies doing business with the Eastern bloc, Mr. Rona, a Hungarian-born American lawyer and a specialist on trade with the Eastern bloc, said, ''There is no legal system to make you feel comfortable that the agreement and understandings are legally enforceable, and until last year there was no market to reflect the value of corporate assets because all businesses were Government-owned.''
Despite the difficulties, Western business people are excited about the possibilities opening up in Eastern Europe. Mr. Rona ticked off a few deals in the works:
* General Electric is trying to buy 50 percent of Tungsram, the Hungarian light bulb maker, which has 8 percent of the West European market.
* Guardian Industries, a Detroit plate glass manufacturer, is committing $100 million to make glass in Hungary for export and local consumption.
* Barbara Piasecka Johnson, the Polish-born widow of J. Seward Johnson, son of the founder of the Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical company, has declared her readiness to spend as much as $100 million in Poland to revitalize the Gdansk shipyards.
* Karl Kassbohrer Fahrzengwerke G.m.b.H., a West German bus maker, is negotating with Ikarus, a Hungarian bus maker, to make buses for sale in Western Europe.
* Volkswagen of West Germany is negotiating with Warburg, producer of East Germany's Trabant car, to make cars for sale in East Germany.
* Citibank, which opened its only East European branch in Hungary four years ago, is helping employees buy Hungary's state-owned stationery business, Apisz.
A big part of the incentive, of course, is that in two years the European Community will not only eliminate internal tariff barriers but also promote economic development in Eastern Europe by cutting tariffs.
''You have a highly educated work force working for very low wages'' in Eastern Europe, Mr. Rona said, ''and you're betting that with proper technological transfer and industrial organization, they will be highly productive.'' The savings on labor costs would offset any remaining duties, he added.
IBJ Schroder, which is becoming increasingly active in Eastern European deals, represents such big-name clients as Electrolux A. B., the Swedish appliance maker; Hoechst G.m.b.H., the West German chemicals producer, and YKK, the Japanese zipper manufacturer. Based in New York, it is 98.3 percent owned by the Industrial Bank of Japan. The rest is owned by the parent company of the British merchant bank of J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Company Ltd.
In view of the uncertainties, is it really worth the trouble?
''Absolutely,'' said Steven J. Green, chairman and chief executive of Samsonite, which also buys luggage from manufacturers in South Korea and Taiwan. ''We think the quality will be better and more controllable because it's our factory.''
Discussing the red tape, Mr. Green noted in a telephone interview that while Eastern Europe was angling for Western deals, ''Theirs was not an entrepreneurial system, and the system is creating a lot of bottlenecks.'' Even so, he forecast ''a tremendous benefit to Samsonite down the road,'' and raised the possibility of expanding the Hungarian operation.
''What he figured out,'' Mr. Rona said, ''is that he can get the same productivity and quality in Hungary as in Korea or Taiwan - and he doesn't have to pay the shipping cost'' to Europe. That means more profit, Mr. Rona said.
As a first step, Eastern European experts will meet Jan. 8-12 in Indianapolis to map a program to help Hungary. It will be sponsored by the Hudson Institute of Indianapolis and the East-West Forum of Washington, two research groups specializing in Eastern Europe, Indiana University and independent Hungarian institutions.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TALKING DEALS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (63%); ABJA (FRA) (56%); ABJ (FRA) (56%); ABBN (SWX) (56%); ABB (STO) (56%); ABB (NYSE) (56%); ABB (NSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316998 ALL OTHER LEATHER GOOD & ALLIED PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3161 LUGGAGE (95%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); HUNGARY (98%); EASTERN EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: SAMSONITE CORP (95%); IBJ WHITEHALL BANK & TRUST CO (71%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); ABB LTD (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LUGGAGE MFG (90%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); GLASS MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TRENDS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); LICENSES & PERMITS (52%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J; RONA, PETER BARBARA PIASECKA JOHNSON (50%); 



90 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
President Appointed By Pacific Exchange

BYLINE: By Lawrence M. Fisher

 BODY:
The Pacific Stock Exchange said yesterday that it had appointed Leopold Korins president, effective Jan. 22. Mr. Korins, who is currently managing director of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, is also expected to be named chief executive officer by the exchange's board of governors on Jan. 25.
Mr. Korins, who is 56 years old, succeeds Herbert Kawahara as president and will replace Dr. Maurice Mann as chief executive. Mr. Kawahara resigned in June. Mr. Mann, who is 60, will continue as chairman and as a consultant until May 1. He has not indicated his plans. 
The Pacific Exchange has had financial difficulties in recent years, but it had its most profitable year in 1989. Dr. Mann is given credit for making significant changes in the exchange's structure since his appointment in early 1987. The exchange is now debating opening a third trading floor in Hawaii to complement its floors in San Francisco and Los Angeles.
''I think that the opportunity to play a key role in the development of these markets in the next three to five years offers something I've been pointing to all my career,'' Mr. Korins said. ''I think the exchange is in a unique position to take advantage of some time frames in the trading day which have not been exploited,'' he said. ''It is the only exchange which has the potential to fill a time frame after the New York Stock Exchange is closed and prior to the opening of the Japan exchange.''
Although a number of West Coast brokerage firms have closed or been merged, Mr. Korins said he sees ''the whole West Coast as a tremendously fertile territory for the development of new broker dealers.''
He said he would work to strengthen the rapport between brokers and the regional exchange. ''There is tremendous potential to get people to fully utilize this asset in their own community, both in Los Angeles and San Francisco,'' he said.
After receiving his B.S. in economics from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania in 1954, Mr. Korins served in the Army and began his career at Merrill Lynch as an account executive in 1957. He held various positions including floor broker, managing director of the equity trading group, regional manager for New York institutional sales and director of marketing and sales for unit trusts.
Mr. Korins and his wife, who live in New Jersey and have one grown son, plan to move to San Francisco, where the Pacific Exchange is based.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (85%); MER (NYSE) (85%); 8675 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); NYSE ARCA INC (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES APPOINTMENTS (95%); EXECUTIVES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M; KORINS, LEOPOLD; KAWAHARA, HERBERT; MANN, MAURICE (DR) LEOPOLD KORINS (93%); MAURICE MANN (74%); HERBERT KAWAHARA (61%); 



91 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Study Says the Military Hurts Competitiveness

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3

 BODY:
Although Pentagon contracts provide ''safe havens'' for American high-technology companies, the military's emphasis on low-volume, high-cost products has put those companies at a commercial disadvantage, especially in competition with Japanese manufacturers, a study sponsored by the Ford Foundation contends.
''The characteristics of the defense procurement system are completely antithetical to what you need to be successful in the commercial sector,'' said the author of the study, Prof. Susan W. Sanderson of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute's School of Management.
By contrast, Professor Sanderson's report said, Japanese high-technology companies have generally had to rely on high-volume, fast-turnaround consumer markets to spur growth. The Japanese Government encouraged them to become more competitive, developing sophisticated designs and manufacturing techniques for rapidly changing, highly competitive environments, the report said. 
 
Military Cuts Will Help
American high-technology companies stand to grow more competitive and to prosper if American military spending is cut, as expected, as East-West relations improve, Professor Sanderson said in an interview today.
A number of economists and analysts have speculated about the effect of sharply reduced military spending, both on military contractors and more broadly on American manufacturing. The Senate Budget Committee has scheduled hearings later this month on ''the question of how to handle the military build-down,'' Senator Jim Sasser, the Tennessee Democrat who heads the committee, said in an interview. One subject will be ways to enhance the commercial competitiveness of military contractors, he said.
''The Pentagon procurement system has serious flaws with regard to developing a cost-efficient approach that will allow a firm to be competitive on the open market,'' he added.
Asked to comment on the report, Robert C. Costello, former Under Secretary of Defense for acquisition, said, ''Under the present conditions, with all the rules, regulations and standards, much of what it says is right.'' He added, ''The conditions are now in the process of being modified'' to overcome problems highlighted in the report.
 
Cutbacks Called a 'Blessing'
Professor Sanderson, an expert on the manufacture and design of products, who was the sole author of the study, maintained that Pentagon cutbacks would be a ''blessing.''
She added: ''The question is, How are we going to get our companies to be able to make the transition from defense production to commercial production? It's absolutely essential that we make the transition. We're going to have to put corporate and Government resources together.''
The report noted that American companies had gradually decided to pull out of consumer electronics manufacturing at the same time that foreign companies were making a long-term commitment to improving their design and production. Supported by Government industrial policies, companies in Japan, South Korea, Europe and elsewhere applied sophisticated manufacturing technologies and revamped their corporate organizations to produce advanced products ever more quickly, the report said.
 
Time-Consuming Process
The non-competitiveness of American companies is worsened by the Pentagon's time-consuming approval process for all products used in production, Professor Sanderson said. ''In the long run, they end up in a situation in which they aren't using state-of-the-art products,'' she said.
Professor Sanderson cited the General Electric Company, which was once ''going great guns in the consumer electronics industry'' as a company that could ultimately benefit from the ''peace dividend.''
J. Richard Iverson, president of the American Electronics Association, said the Pentagon spent about $40 billion a year on electronics equipment, little of it the most advanced. ''You don't have any modern products in any weapons systems,'' Mr. Iverson said. ''It takes too long to get there.''
The Sanderson report noted that in the last 20 years the United States had gone from being the world's leading producer of electrical and electronic goods to a major consumer of such products made elsewhere.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MANUFACTURING CORP (58%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURING CONCEPTS (58%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGIES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE DEFENSE CONTRACTING (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



92 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Money-Fund Yields Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields of tax-exempt and taxable money market funds monitored by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report were up sharply for the week ended yesterday.
Analysts at Donoghue's said the yields had risen because of seasonal pressures, like the absence of Japanese investors, and should stay at current levels for a week or two before falling. They also noted that stronger-than-expected economic reports were also a factor behind higher short-term interest rates during the holiday period. The employment report for December, which is due tomorrow, may give more clues to the direction of interest rates, they said. 
Donoghue's seven-day compounded average yield for a taxable money market mutual fund increased 20 basis points, to 8.39 percent, while the 30-day yield increased 4 basis points, to 8.26 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Assets of taxable funds fell $3.6 billion, to $356.6 billion. IBC/Donoghue's analysts said much of the decline had come from consumer funds, whose assets fell by $2.3 billion, to $240.9 billion.
The average number of days to maturity of securities held in managers' portfolios declined by 2 days, to 39 days, as managers took advantage of higher short-term rates.
Among the general-purpose money market funds with assets of more than $100 million that are surveyed by IBC/Donoghue's, the Alger Money Market Portfolio, distributed by Fred Alger & Company of Jersey City, had the best return on a yield of 9.16 percent, about 77 basis points better than the average yield in the week.
Tax-exempt assets declined $1.5 billion, to $69.9 billion, as the average seven-day compounded yield increased 19 basis points, to 6.07 percent. The taxable equivalent would be 8.43 percent for investors in the 28 percent tax bracket and 9.05 percent for those in a 33 percent bracket. Portfolio managers reduced the average days to maturity of portfolio securities to 52 from 53.
The top-performing fund in the week was the Calvert Tax Free Reserves Money Market Fund, distributed by the Calvert Group in Washington, D.C. The fund posted a return of 6.78 percent, or about 71 points better than the average.
By contrast, bank money market accounts, which did not succumb to year-end pressures, remained unchanged at 6.35 percent, according to The Bank Rate Monitor's national index, while the average yield for a six-month C.D. dropped one basis point, to 7.92 percent.

GRAPHIC: graph of consumer money rates (Sources: Donoghue's Money Fund Report; Bank Rate Monitor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FRED ALGER & CO INC (66%); CALVERT GROUP (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; MONEY MARKET FUNDS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BONDS (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT



93 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Precious Metals Are Down While Crude Oil Prices Rise

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Precious metal prices continued to fall yesterday, largely on the firmness of the dollar and the belief that the Federal Reserve will not reduce interest rates because of recent signs of economic improvement.
Prices of crude oil continued to soar on the willingness of many refiners to pay more despite production problems at several Southern refineries. Much of the buying reflected strong prices for heating oil and the unusually tight gasoline supply for the season. 
''The precious metals market, led by gold, again ignored the rising energy prices and their impact on inflation and focused instead on the recent firmness of the dollar and indications that the economy was not as weak as had been thought,'' said Bette Raptopoulos, a precious metals specialist at Prudential-Bache Securities.
Among the recent bullish economic signs, she said, is the upturn in sales of new homes and construction starts in real estate. The strong equities market has also prompted many investment fund managers to switch out of gold mining shares.
All this comes at a time when the precious metals markets are unusually thin, Ms. Raptopoulos said, ''because many of the important participants, particularly those in Asia and Europe, have closed shop for the Christmas and New Year's holidays.''
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, the spot January gold delivery settled at $394 an ounce, down $5.60 on the day. The closing gold price was the lowest since mid-November. The spot Comex silver contract settled at $5.151 an ounce, down 3.2 cents. It was the lowest spot silver price since mid-October.
The spot January platinum delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange settled at $469.80 an ounce, off $4.40. That was the lowest level since last September.
Peter C. Beutel, an energy analyst at Elders Futures Inc., said ''that despite refinery production problems, much of related to the uncommonly cold weather along the Gulf and other parts of the South, refiners continue to be the big buyers of crude.''
The refiners have sharply increased their buying of crude because of the soaring demand and prices of heating oil, as well as unleaded gasoline, Mr. Beutel said, adding that ''some of the refinery problems have been in the plants that produce gasoline.''
At the close of the New York Merc, the spot February crude oil delivery settled at another contract high of $23.68 a barrel, up 79 cents on the day. The spot February unleaded gasoline contract climbed 1.54 cents a gallon, to 67.23 cents, and the spot February heating oil delivery rose 0.81 cent a gallon, to 78.20 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; METALS AND MINERALS OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); GASOLINE (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); SPOT MARKET (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); GOLD MINING (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MINES & MINING (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (60%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J PETER C BEUTEL (65%); BETTE RAPTOPOULOS (65%); 



94 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up in Mark Trading But Declines Against Yen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended mixed yesterday against the primary foreign currencies, falling more than a yen against the Japanese currency and rising against the West German mark.
Traders said the dollar fell against the yen partly in response to reported efforts by the Bank of Japan to drive it down by selling dollars in Singapore and London. The Tokyo market was closed for an extended New Year's holiday. 
Earl I. Johnson, a trader at Harris Trust and Company in Chicago, said technical factors were responsible for the dollar's movements. But he said trading remained thin as many dealers extended their holiday.
The market was beginning to focus on tomorrow's release of unemployment data for December to get a better picture on the outlook for the American economy, Mr. Johnson said. He said some of the dealers felt the data would show strength in the number of non-farm jobs, which could support the dollar.
But he said he did not think that was sustainable. The fundamental argument, he said, is for a weaker United States economy and softer interest rates.
The dollar was also depressed by reports that Japan's central bank had intervened several times in Europe and in Singapore to support the faltering yen, the dealers said.
The yen has been under pressure recently because of Japan's relatively low interest rates and as rumors of another stock scandal begin to appear.
In New York, the dollar stood at 145.25 yen, down from 146.45 yen on Tuesday. Earlier, in London, the dollar was quoted at 145.70 yen, up from Tuesday's 144.09 yen.
The dollar was mixed against the British pound. Sterling dropped to $1.6080 an ounce in London, from $1.6115 late on Tuesday, and rose to $1.6115 an ounce, from $1.6085 in New York.
Against the West German currency, the dollar rose in the United States to 1.7208 marks, from 1.7128.
Other late-dollar rates in New York, compared with those late on Tuesday, included: 1.5785 Swiss francs, down from 1.5815; 5.8765 French francs, up from 5.8510; 1,289.00 Italian lire, up from 1,284.00, and 1.15985 Canadian dollars, down from 1.16005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); SINGAPORE (91%); GERMANY (91%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); 

PERSON: EARL I JOHNSON (69%); 



95 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2655 words

HEADLINE: NORIEGA'S SURRENDER: CHRONOLOGY;
Vatican Issues an Ultimatum And a General Takes a Walk

BYLINE: This article was reported by Andrew Rosenthal, Elaine Sciolino and David E. Pitt, and was written by Mr. Rosenthal., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
After 10 days of trying to persuade Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega to give himself up, the Vatican's envoy to Panama on Wednesday entered the spartan quarters that served as the deposed Panamanian dictator's temporary sanctuary and delivered an ultimatum: His refuge in the Vatican Embassy would expire at noon today.
Within hours, the once-feared general walked out of the embassy compound with the cleric, Msgr. Jose Sebastian Laboa, and surrendered to American soldiers in the presence of the general who commanded the 24,000 United States troops who had seized Panama 16 days earlier.
 
Monsignor's Diplomacy
Monsignor Laboa's terse warning, recounted today by a senior Administration official, was the culmination of an extraordinary personal effort by Monsignor Laboa, the Papal Nuncio, to get General Noriega out of the Vatican Embassy without appearing to be kicking him out the door in violation of the church's ancient promise of sanctuary.
A reconstruction of the events leading to General Noriega's surrender, pieced together today from accounts by Administration officials and others involved in the Panama crisis, indicated that it was the personal diplomacy and tenacity of Monsignor Laboa that ultimately forced General Noriega from the Vatican Embassy. 
But the officials said the turning point in the diplomatic stalemate over the general's fate came Saturday, when the Vatican, under pressure from the United States and the Panamanian clergy, decided to drop its refusal to turn General Noriega over to the United States and made it clear that it would not allow him to go to a third country.
That cut off General Noriega's favored route of escape and enabled Monsignor Laboa, an outgoing Spaniard who has often said he was a priest before he was a diplomat, to begin the psychological and emotional assault that persuaded General Noriega he had two choices: turn himself over to the American military and be tried in the United States on drug charges that could put him in prison for life or surrender to his own people, thousands of whom were in the streets outside the embassy demonstrating against the general on Wednesday, the day he made his decision.
Although thousands of protesters were waving American flags, Administration officials said today that the United States did not orchestrate the protest.
 
Wearing His Uniform
General Noriega, a former head of military intelligence and student of psychological warfare, decided to walk out of the embassy, wearing his uniform to maintain the appearance of military dignity, and take his chances in an American court, where he might be able to beat the charges against him or at least embarrass his adversary, President Bush. The Stalemate Begins From Frustration To Actions The President's announcement that General Noriega was in custody and headed for trial in the United States, after two and a half years in which the Panamanian leader thumbed his nose at American threats and cajoling, was a satisfying conclusion for the President to an operation that had at first been frustrated, at least in part.
As thousands of American troops stormed Panama City on Dec. 20, smashing the Panamanian Defense Forces and installing a new Government that had been elected in May but prevented from taking office by General Noriega, the Panamanian leader eluded the American authorities. For four days, he hid in Panama City, moving from one hideout to another, sometimes just steps ahead of his pursuers.
Then, on Christmas Eve, he surfaced in the Spanish-style nunciature in the heart of Panama City, and the Vatican announced that it would not turn him over to the United States, which it considered an invading power. The Administration began a diplomatic blitzkrieg to convince the Vatican that General Noriega had no legal right to the church's protection.
On Christmas morning, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d telephoned Agostino Cardinal Casaroli, the Vatican Secretary of State, from Houston with a strong message: that the ousted Panamanian leader was a fugitive from justice, not a political refugee, and that he should be delivered immediately to the United States for trial. Thomas Miledy, the American Ambassador to the Vatican, repeated the message a day later to Vatican officials.
Although Mr. Bush, who was personally directing the key aspects of the Panama invasion, relishes any opportunity to exercise his skill at personal diplomacy, he avoided direct involvement in the diplomatic play over General Noriega's fate. White House officials said they reasoned that if Mr. Bush stepped in personally, telephoning Pope John Paul II or making some other dramatic gesture, it might appear that the United States was trying to strong-arm the Roman Catholic Church.
Mr. Bush called the Pope today, the White House announced, to thank him for the Vatican's help in resolving the crisis.
Still, Vatican officials bristled at the Americans' sharp words, insisting that its nunciature, like any other embassy, was empowered to deal only with the host country and would violate international law by handing over the general directly to the United States authorities. The General's Isolation A Simple Room And a Broken TV After taking sanctuary inside the nunciature, General Noriega was left with little to do except contemplate his fate. But for Vatican officials, the first task, one that they later described as one of the most difficult of the entire crisis, was disarming the general. He had arrived at the mission armed.
First, the clerics persuaded General Noriega to give up a pistol that he carried with him when he arrived at the nunciature on Christmas Eve. Later, they discovered a knife in his possession and persuaded him to give it up.
Monsignor Laboa said today that General Noriega also found, and hid under his bed, an automatic rifle that apparently had been left in the nunciature by one of three Noriega associates who had earlier taken refuge there. He said Eliezer Gaitan, a former bodyguard for the general, helped persuade him to surrender the weapon and then played a key role in the negotiations, acting as an intermediary for the general with the monsignor and top American officers.
The surrender of Luis del Cid, a top officer in the Noriega forces, further isolated the general and ''had a tremendous impact'' in lowering his morale, Maj. Gen. Marc Cisneros, the second-in-command of American forces in Panama, said today.
In contrast to the opulence of his island bunker overlooking the Pacific entrance to the Panama Canal, the toppled ruler was largely confined to a simple white room with a crucifix, a broken television set and a few pieces of furniture. There was no air-conditioning to cut the tropical Panamanian heat, and he could not see out the opaque windows.
''Spartan in their simplicity,'' is how one former occupant of the room described the quarters, which were earlier used by prominent Panamanian opposition figures when they fled General Noriega's Defense Forces and were given refuge by Monsignor Laboa.
Deprived of the racks of French-tailored uniforms that hung in the closets of his former quarters, General Noriega was dressed in simple civilian clothes, according to diplomats in Panama who are friends of Monsignor Laboa. A vegetarian, he was forced to eat the food served to other embassy residents. Limited to one wing of the house, largely shunned by Vatican officials and workers, unable to receive visitors or make more than a few limited phone calls, separated from his mistress, his wife and three daughters, who sought refuge inside the Cuban Embassy, he found himself increasingly isolated.
''He kept pretty much to himself and was downcast and a bit moody,'' Archbishop Marcos McGrath, Panama's senior churchman, told NBC's ''Today'' program today.
The only time General Noriega socialized with other guests and residents at the Vatican Embassy was on Christmas Day and New Year's Eve, when the papal envoy served special communal meals. But one of Monsignor Laboa's aides was so distressed at General Noriega's presence that he would not sit down at the same table with him.
After dinner on New Year's Eve, the group went to Mass. The general sat by himself in the last pew.
Outside, American troops tried to wear him down by blasting the heavy metal sounds of rock groups like Twisted Sister and radio news reports about his fate at ear-splitting levels. Helicopters hovered overhead and tanks rumbled up and down the street.
For diplomats in Washington, the approach adopted by the Papal Nuncio was a masterpiece of psychological persuasion. ''He closed all the doors one by one, until Noriega himself concluded that his only alternative was to surrender to the United States,'' a diplomat said today.
A friend of Monsignor Laboa said, ''Every time General Noriega accepted that one solution was no longer possible, Monsignor Laboa would move on to the next point, wearing away at Noriega's resistance until he was convinced that that route too was now closed.''
By character and training, Monsignor Laboa was ideally equipped for such a task. In the two-and-a-half-year struggle to oust General Noriega, the Vatican envoy maintained an official neutrality while privately doing everything he could to encourage the anti-Noriega forces.
The nuncio also had to consider the safety of his own people. When Gen. Maxwell Thurman, the commanding officer of the American troops in Panama, reportedly urged him to at least evacuate nuns from the Vatican mission out of fear that the general and the Panamanian military officers accompanying him would take the clergyman and the staff hostage, he sent a letter to American officials authorizing General Thurman to send American troops into the mission if a hostage crisis arose, according to officials close to the papal envoy. The Political Quandary Moral High Ground And Waiting Game The diplomatic atmosphere outside the nunciature was delicate.
Archbishop McGrath said the church thought it had done the right thing by granting the general's request for sanctuary. But he said, ''We were so up against the wall about what would be the next step.''
Church officials reasoned that if they allowed General Noriega to stay in their protection, they ran the risk of going against public opinion in the United States and Panama. But turning him over to the United States could violate the sanctity of the church and international law, they said.
In Washington, Administration officials had assigned a high priority to seizing General Noriega, but the United States was not eager to become embroiled in a bitter fight with the Vatican.
''We decided to take the moral high ground,'' an official said. ''We figured it was probably a waiting game, that the Vatican did not have the political or religious authority or the desire to hang on to Noriega and that they were as anxious as we were to come off in a good light.''
Both sides began looking for ways to move gracefully from the positions they had taken at the start of the negotiations.
Officials of the papal mission here and Panamanian officials said the idea of declaring the papal mission no longer diplomatically immune was one of several possibilities mentioned in the course of negotiations with General Noriega in efforts to force his exit from the building.
Ricardo Arias Calderon, First Vice President in the new Government, said, ''My understanding was that the Vatican was heading in that direction.''
Mr. Arias Calderon said Monsignor Laboa discussed the possibility with General Noriega that the mission would simply lower its flag and declare itself no longer the embassy if he persisted in his determination to remain in the mission.
The Rev. Javier Villanueva, a spokesman for the papal mission, said, ''Had Noriega not surrendered to the United States and the Papal Nuncio, there were other alternatives possible.''
''One of the alternatives,'' he said, ''was to give Noriega to the Panamanian Government, but they never requested him.''
The Rev. Villanueva said that ''struggles in the Government leadership'' over whether they wanted to take General Noriega into custody had effectively eliminated the possibility of the papal mission unilaterally ending its diplomatic immunity.
But Mr. Arias Calderon and the spokesman for the Papal Nuncio stressed that that option was seriously considered, at least for a time. The Negotiations The Church And the Army Much of the direct negotiating between the Vatican and the United States was done by Monsignor Laboa, General Thurman and General Cisneros.
Michael G. Kozak, a deputy assistant secretary of state and a lawyer who helped negotiate the Panama Canal Treaties and had negotiated face to face with General Noriega when the Reagan Administration tried to get him to step down from power, also was a key negotiator.
Vatican officials tried to find a country that might be willing to give asylum to General Noriega. But Administration officials said they insisted the general must come to the United States to stand trial.
To help persuade the Vatican and General Noriega to take that course, the United States assured Vatican officials that the charges against him did not carry the death penalty. ''We thought that it would make a substantial difference in their willingness,'' the senior official said.
Throughout, Administration officials said they walked a thin line between pushing the Vatican toward the American position and avoiding the appearance that they were strong-arming the Roman Catholic Church.
''We emphasized that this was not a traditional request for political asylum since he had been indicted on charges that went beyond U.S. borders,'' an official said.
Then, the United States got help from Panamanian clerics. Archbishop McGrath said he and other bishops in the country wrote the Pope and ''repeated our longstanding accusations against Noriega for his violation of human rights.''
That, he said, prompted the Vatican to announce on Saturday that General Noriega ''was not considered to be in diplomatic or political asylum but a person in refuge against whom there were criminal charges.''
Over the next few days, Monsignor Laboa, encouraged by the United States, stepped up his campaign to break down General Noriega's resistance.
Administration officials said the United States never directly negotiated with General Noriega. They also said they made ''no deals'' with him, offering only assurances that he would be given a fair trial and would not face the death penalty. The General's Surrender The Time Runs Out For the Dictator On Tuesday, Monsignor Laboa told American negotiators that he would take another day to try to ''talk some sense into the general,'' said a State Department official. On Wednesday afternoon, Monsignor Laboa delivered the final blow, telling General Noriega that at noon today, his sanctuary would run out. The man who had survived coups and intense economic and diplomatic pressure surrendered.
The Vatican immediately told the United States Southern Command that General Noriega would probably leave that evening, and the President was given the news about 6:30 P.M. The Papal Nuncio also called the new Government of President Guillermo Endara. At 7:30, another call came to the United States authorities, this time saying the general would leave the nunciature in about an hour.
At the general's request, his uniform, dark brown pants and a tan shirt with military emblems, was taken to him. He reportedly talked to his wife, Felicidad, who was in the Cuban Embassy, and with his mistress, Vickie Amado.
At 8:48, in pitch blackness, General Noriega made the 20-yard walk to Avenida Balboa, where United States soldiers waited to handcuff him.
''I will pray for you everyday,'' the Rev. Javier Villanueva, one of the priests, said he told the ousted dictator.
''Thank you,'' replied the general.

GRAPHIC: photo: Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega being shackled by Federal agents after surrendering Wednesday night in Panama City (AP) (pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HOLY SEE (94%); PANAMA (94%); 

COMPANY: THE VATICAN EMBASSY (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US RELIGION (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ARMED FORCES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (61%); RIOTS (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; SCIOLINO, ELAINE; PITT, DAVID E; LABOA, JOSE SEBASTIAN (MSGR); POPE (JOHN PAUL II); NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN) GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



96 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-15
 
General Noriega appeared in court in Miami, where he politely responded to a judge's questions while refusing to enter a plea. Page A1

 
The role of Panama's papal nuncio was an essential part of the surrender of General Noriega. But officials said that the turning point in the negotiations was the Vatican's decision to drop its refusal to turn the general over to the United States. A1

 
Vatican says Noriega's sole guarantee was for fair trial A10

U.S. aide hints at a deal if the general tells all A12

 
The Panama venture received praise from Democrats and Republican leaders, seeming to guarantee that President Bush would finish his first year in strong public standing. A1 
 
 
The focus and goals of Panama, with General Noriega in American custody, began to turn to the repairing of its damaged political, social and economic systems. A10

 
The Eastern bloc's trade pacts should be annulled, said Czechoslovakia, indicating that if the rules were not abolished at a meeting next week, then it would withdraw from them on its own. A1

 
The Lithuania Communist Party does not seem likely to face pressure from President Gorbachev to reverse its decision to break from the Moscow Party, said Lithuanian leaders who met with Mr. Gorbachev. A15

 
Some Russians reflect on pluralism A15

 
The execution of Nicolae Ceausescu and his wife was defended by a leading tactician of Rumania's provisional Government, who said that otherwise the country might have endured a ''blood bath.'' A14

 
For city punished under Ceausescu, revolt was sole course A14

Honecker free from house arrest, but may face prison term A15

 
Mongolians are seeking changes in their Communist system. Though less dramatic than events in Eastern Europe, people are holding protest rallies and demanding unprecedented changes. A6

 
U.S. accused of failing to assail rights abuse A9

Chinese at U.N. seeking to keep jobs A8

 
Shiite Muslim factions in Lebanon raised the the intensity of their fighting, ignoring an appeal from their spiritual leaders to end the bloodshed. A3

 
As buyers balk, Argentine prices dip A3

2,000 reported slain in Sudan A2

At least 210 die in Pakistan's worst rail crash A5

Workers say Moroccan oil spill could have been halted sooner A2

Campeau surrenders 29% stake D1

 
NATIONAL A16-21
 
A killing in Boston that stirred the city's racial tensions entered a shocking new chapter. A white man who had reported that his wife had been killed by a black assailant committed suicide, and police said he was now the case's prime suspect. A1

 
Potential home buyers and investors are jamming the phone lines of the Government agency that this week began selling billions of dollars' worth of properties owned by failed savings institutions. D1

 
Unshaken, Keating takes stand D1

 
One of a jet's three engines fell off as it flew over northern Florida, but the pilots were able to land the Northwest Airlines plane safely. A16

 
Delta tells of getting threat but says it suspects a hoax A17

 
A report on offshore drilling said that new measures are needed to protect the environment before the Government leases areas off the coasts of California and Florida. A16

 
The AIDS epidemic has hit Texas, where more than 8,000 cases have been diagnosed. Yet the state ranks among the lowest states in AIDS spending. A18

 
Washington at Work: A dispute between a well-known lobbyist and Congressmen over a child-care bill is symbolic, some say, of differences between liberals of the 60's and the 90's. A20

 
Red Cross issues emergency appeal for blood donations A18

U.S. marshals in huddle on overcrowding in jails A19

Illinois to shut exhibit on exposed Indian remains A17

Crew cannot sue maimed protester A19

 
REGIONAL B1-4
 
New York City schools that do not measure up to the academic standards of Chancellor Fernandez would be taken over by him, he said. A1

 
A special fund to pay for the police whose hiring had to be delayed because of fiscal problems is favored by Mayor Dinkins, he said, though he did not indicate how the money should be raised. B1

 
Dinkins fills operations and economic posts B3

 
Harlem Hospital and other hospitals in New York City remained overburdened by a post-holiday crush despite extraordinary measures by state and city officials to relieve the crowding. B1

 
A nesting area for rare birds, an important site on the East Coast, would suffer major damage if the oil-leak cleanup on the Arthur Kill is not adequate, a state official said. B3

 
Man is charged in fatal attack on Bleecker St. B3

 
News analysis: The Cuomo budget will probably entail raising taxes, cutting back some old programs and starting up new programs slowly to avoid heavy costs this year. B1

 
The rebuilding of an intersection on Long Island is pitting supporters, including Governor Cuomo, who feel the dangerous crossover needs to be fixed as soon as possible, against area residents, who want to know more about its environmental impact. B1

 
New Jersey Blue Cross wins overall 24.6% rise in rates B2

A theatergoer is shot in the knee while watching 'Steel Magnolias' B2

 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
Weekend

 
Events: Weekender Guide C1

Fresh faces headed for fame C1

Theater: On Stage C2

''Carbondale Dreams'' C3

A festival in Chelsea C5

Film: At the Movies C8

''The First Emperor of China'' C8

''Veronico Cruz'' C9

Music: Benefits for a drummer C21

Lainie Kazan C13

Museums: For children, a taste of radio drama C16

Dance: New York Theater Ballet C3

Planned improvisations C3

Art: Cindy Sherman's portraits C19

De Dominicis's myths C29

Auctions C15

Restaurants C22

Word and Image: Stories by Joy Williams C28

TV Weekend C30

 
LAW B6

Minority critic stirs debate on minority writing
 
SPORTS
 
Basketball: Knicks win
La Salle forward gains respect A23

Column: Vecsey on ex-Knick A23

Football: Giants need new script A23

Glory not sole playoff reward A24

Rams' Greene aims for Simms A23

Hockey: Devils beat Kings A23
Rangers lose to North Stars A27
Horse Racing: Notebook A28

SportsPeople A24

 
OBITUARIES
 
Harold E. Edgerton, inventor of electronic flash B4

Rev. Dr. Edward Nason West, Episcopal canon B4

Gerhard Schroder, ex-official and founder of Bonn party B5

Vladimir Ussachevsky, electronic music pioneer B5

 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A30

 
Operation Just Begun
Boat people's benefactors
The Council crashes on takeoff
Michael M. Weinstein: Soviet
 
Letters A30

Tom Wicker: Freedom for what? A31

A. M. Rosenthal: Truths of the pariahs A31

W. Scott Thompson: In Manila, coup season never ends A31

Mickey Edwards: What ''permanent Congress''? A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: PANAMA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LITHUANIA (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SUDAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); ROMANIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RELIGION (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); HOUSE ARREST (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); POLITICS (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); ARRESTS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (50%); OIL SPILLS (50%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



97 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: With Official Permission, Change Stirs Mongolia

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Less dramatically than in Berlin and less bloodily than in Bucharest, the winds of Communist change have swept across the Gobi Desert to stir up political life in the sparsely populated nation of Mongolia.
Sandwiched between China and the Soviet Union, Mongolia is twice the size of Texas but is home to only two million people, many of them nomadic herdsman. Mongolia has attracted little attention in the West since the 13th century, when its warriors conquered most of Asia and swept as far west as Eastern Europe.
In 1921, Mongolia became the second country in the world - after the Soviet Union - to turn to Communism, and for most of this century life has been governed by a rigid Stalinist order. That has been changing recently, and in the last month the pace has accelerated. 
Temperatures in the capital, Ulan Bator, often reach 15 degrees below zero at this time of year, but inside their homes and traditional felt tents, known as yurts, some Mongolians are talking animatedly about politics and demanding unprecedented changes, according to reports in the Mongolian press and by two diplomats reached by telephone from Beijing.
 
Rallies Are Permitted
The Government has responded favorably, the diplomats said, and twice last month rallies were held in Ulan Bator, with official permission, to encourage further change. Rallies have also been held in at least three other cities, the diplomats said, but information is sketchy on those gatherings.
''Democracy is our goal'' and ''Solidarity for human rights'' were among the banners unfurled at the rallies in Ulan Bator. Some of the banners were in English, reflecting the current national enthusiasm for learning English, the diplomats said.
Some of the protesters also called for a reappraisal of Genghis Khan, the 13th century Mongol conqueror who terrorized Europe and Asia. Partly out of respect for Soviet sensibilities, since Genghis Khan is a dark figure in Russian history, he was almost entirely ignored for decades here. Now a hotel is being named for him, and a movie is being made of his life, but the rehabilitation is not rapid enough to suit many Mongolians.
Diplomats said the unrest was inspired partly by news of the events in Eastern Europe. While there are very few foreigners in Mongolia to spread the news - the few tourists who go to Mongolia mostly just rumble through the desert and grassland while on the trans-Siberian railroad between Beijing and Moscow - there have been accounts in the Mongolian press, and some Mongolians are avid listeners of Voice of America and British Broadcasting Corporation news bulletins.
Estimates of the number of people who attended each rally range from 250 to more than 1,000. The rallies were organized by an unofficial organization calling itself the Mongolian Democratic Association.
 
Free Elections Demanded
The association has prepared a formal charter and has asked to be officially recognized by the Government. Among its demands are free elections to choose national leaders, national referendums on major issues, a more market-oriented economy and an end to the privileges of officials.
The demonstrators have pledged to work within the system, and the diplomats interviewed said they did not expect the kind of mass unrest or rebellion seen recently in Eastern Europe. They also said there was much less hostility to the Soviet Union in Mongolia than in Eastern Europe. Many Mongolians regard the Soviet Union as a protector and counterbalance against China, the diplomats said.
''It's not an unhappy marriage with the Soviet Union,'' a diplomat said. ''This is not an anti-Soviet movement.'' Mongolia's press and broadcasting gave extensive coverage to the demonstrations, and the national labor union newspaper carried a supportive editorial. Three members of the Mongolian Democratic Association were even invited to join a television debate last week against a representative of the ruling Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party.
Newspapers have been increasingly daring in reporting discontent and in criticizing the policies of Yumjaagiyn Tsedenbal, who headed the ruling party for 26 years until he was ousted in 1984.
 
Official Calls for Change
''The genuine human rights upheld in all major laws of the country were violated during the period of personality cult and thousands of innocent people became victims of unlawfulness and repression,'' the national newspaper Unen said in an editorial last month.
Under the current party leader, Jambyn Batmonh, some of the calls for change have been coming from within the leadership. The national radio service reported after a Central Committee meeting a few weeks ago that people favored ''sweeping changes in the society.'' And the new Deputy Prime Minister was quoted as saying, ''We must change our notion about socialism and the way we are building a socialist society.''
While the focus of the recent unrest has been political change, some Mongolians are reported to have been driven to action by a perceived slight by Garry Kasparov, the young Soviet citizen who is world chess champion. Mr. Kasparov proposed, in the end of a long interview with Playboy magazine, that Mongolia might be sold to China to raise money for the Soviet Union.
The Soviet spokesman, Gennadi I. Gerasimov, said this week that the chess champion's ''fantastic idea'' had resulted in a deluge of protest letters and petitions arriving at Soviet diplomatic missions in Mongolia, The Associated Press reported from Moscow.
According to the A.P., Mr. Gerasimov said Mr. Kasparov's proposal had nothing in common with Soviet policy.

GRAPHIC: map of Ulan Bator, Mongolia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MONGOLIA (97%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); ROMANIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: GOBI DESERT (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MONGOLIA; ULAN BATUR (MONGOLIA)

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS POLITICS (89%); DESERTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (60%); RIOTS (60%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D



98 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: NORIEGA'S SURRENDER: PANAMA;
'Criminal Is Gone,' but Joy Is Fleeting in Land He Ruled

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PANAMA, Jan. 4

 BODY:
With Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega in American custody and out of the country, relieved Panamanians turned their attention today to the arduous process of repairing the damage he inflicted on the political, social and economic fabric of this nation of 2.3 million people during his six-year rule.
At Government offices, businesses and banks, Panamanians reported to work still aglow with delight from the street celebrations that exploded here when General Noriega's departure was announced Wednesday night. But that joy has been tempered by awareness that the country still faces serious problems that will not be easy to resolve.
''The criminal is gone, and we are happy to be rid of him,'' said Ligia Cornejo, a middle-aged office worker. ''But I am still here, and my children and I are the ones who will have to live with the consequences of all the evil deeds the dictatorship committed when it pillaged and intimidated this country.'' 
The new civilian Government that took power after the American military invasion on Dec. 20 took no time to savor its victory. While ordinary Panamanians were dancing in the streets, President Guillermo Endara summoned his Cabinet for an unusual midnight meeting, part of a continuing effort to revise or abolish the many institutions that General Noriega and his associates subverted or corrupted. #90% Support Seen for Endara ''This is a golden opportunity to restructure this country in a much more modern light,'' a prominent Panamanian political figure said. ''We need to repeal the political and judiciary systems, cleanse the bureaucracy and get rid of practices that only create corruption.''
A senior Panamanian Government official said today that the resignation of Col. Roberto Armijo, appointed on Dec. 23 as head of Panama's new Public Security Force, came after evidence of his corruption surfaced in a Government investigation. The official said he could not rule out the possibility that Colonel Armijo, a member of General Noriega's inner circle, would be prosecuted on the corruption charges.
Action against other remnants of the Noriega Government continued today. It was announced that Col. Nivaldo Madrinan, the much-despised head of the secret police, is now in United States custody on a military base here.
For the moment, Mr. Endara is the principal beneficiary of the vacuum left by the collapse of the Noriega Government. Archbishop Marcos McGrath, the country's highest-ranking Roman Catholic, estimated today that ''at least 90 percent of the population'' supports the Endara Government and would vote for it if a plebiscite were held immediately.
 
Discord in Panama Government
But many Panamanian and foreign analysts said they believed it would be difficult for the new Government to maintain that consensus for very long. Members of Mr. Endara's Authentic Panamanian Party and First Vice President Ricardo Arias Calderon's Christian Democrats have already begun sniping at each other in private.
''So long as Noriega was around, he could be the focal point of the entire nation's hatred and frustration,'' an Latin American diplomat said. ''But now, things will inevitably start to splinter because this is, after all, going to be a democracy.''
The most immediate problem, however, is rebuilding the shattered economy that once gave Panama the highest standard of living in Central America and the Caribbean. As a result of the political turmoil of the last two and a half years and the American economic sanctions imposed last year, the economy has shrunk by at least 25 percent and unemployment has doubled, to a quarter of the working population.
Those difficulties were compounded by the Dec. 20 American invasion, which Panamanian economists and bankers estimate inflicted at least $500 million in damage and looting. They argue that the economy needs an immediate and large injection of credit if the downward spiral is to be reversed.
 
Urgent Calls for U.S. Aid
''The most urgent thing is to replenish commercial activity now, in January and February,'' said former President Nicolas Ardito Barletta, an American-educated economist. ''If that does not happen, then unemployment will rise and the hopeful note struck by getting Noriega out will be reduced.''
Since the Endara Government inherited a national treasury that was virtually empty, Panamanian officials are looking for outside assistance, particularly from Washington. But at a news conference here just hours before General Noriega's surrender, Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger and other members of an American economic reconstruction mission made no specific offers or promises of assistance, saying they need more time to assess the situation.
Several Panamanian economists and businessmen said they thought the Eagleburger mission had failed to understand the urgency of the situation. They emphasized that it is in the long-term interest of the United States to support Mr. Endara's Government and other democratic elements that are seeking to replace the Panamanian military as the country's dominant institution.
''The new Government now has to really take hold and project its image,'' said Mr. Ardito Barletta, who was forced by General Noriega to step down just months after he was elected in a 1984 presidential election marred by widespread accusations of fraud. ''Also, the United States Government must, at the highest level, announce that it supports the recovery of Panama. That has to be done dramatically, by President Bush at the White House.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ETHICS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CORRUPTION (89%); MILITARY BASES (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ETHICS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); ARMIJO, ROBERTO (COL); MADRINAN, NIVALDO (COL) MANUEL ANTONIO NORIEGA (97%); GUILLERMO ENDARA (84%); 



99 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Panel Calls for Delays In Offshore Drilling for Oil

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
Recommending choices to appease both environmentalists and the oil industry, a panel headed by Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr. says more study is needed before oil companies drill off the coasts of California and Florida.
New measures are needed to protect the environment before the Government leases offshore areas for drilling, the panel said in a report sent to the White House today.
The report, dated Jan. 1 and made available by Federal officials, listed a number of options for President Bush but none that called for a permanent drilling ban.
All called for a delay of at least three years for lease sales off Florida and a delay of at least a year for those off California. 
 
President Has Many Options
President Bush may choose from among the options or choose another course entirely. Government officials have said a decision could be announced by the President in the State of the Union Message this month, but a White House spokesman said that was speculation.
Federal efforts to develop the nation's offshore oil and natural gas reserves have been debated, contested and often effectively blocked for nearly a decade.
The coastal states and environmentalists contend that they pose an unacceptable risk to the marine and coastal ecology and threaten fishing and other economic activities, including tourism.
The oil industry and the Federal Government, pressing for development of offshore oil, say that would promote economic growth and protect the nation from dependence on foreign sources of energy.
The panel, which includes representatives from the Interior, Energy and Commerce Departments, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Office of Management and Budget, concluded that more study is needed on the environmental, economic and social effects of the drilling.
 
No Option Is Pushed
The options for the Florida coast called for the cancellation of lease sales for at least the duration of the Interior Department's current five-year plan for developing the oil resources of the outer continental shelf, which expires at the end of 1992.
The options for two California areas called for a deferral of lease sales for at least a year while additional data about the effects of oil activity are collected.
The report did not recommend which option the President should choose. It concluded that the risk of a major offshore oil spill was small but warned that if such a spill occurred ''the environmental effect could be significant.''
''Many of the environmental effects of oil and gas activities, taken individually, are acceptable,'' the preliminary report said. But it added, ''Collectively, environmental effects of oil and gas activities could result in unacceptable changes to the local environments.''
Among the measures proposed were prohibiting the discharge of fluids used in drilling in ecologically sensitive areas, improving the ability of communities to respond to oil spills, and requiring that oil from the outer continental shelf be transported by pipeline rather than in tankers, which are considered more prone to accidents.
 
White House Declines Comment
A White House spokesman, Stephen Hart, said the President would consider the document in deciding what to do about pending lease sales. The leases involve 1.1 acres of ocean off Southern California, 6.7 million acres off Northern California and 14 million acres off South Florida in the Gulf of Mexico.
In 1981, Interior Secretary James G. Watt announced plans to make the entire billion-acre outer continental shelf available to industry for exploration and development.
His action touched off an outcry from coastal states and environmental groups who said that such leasing would cause severe degradation of the coastal environment. They charged that the plan violated the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Amendments of 1978, which requirs that the Government balance the need for oil with the need to protect ecological systems.
Shortly after taking office last year, President Bush postponed the three lease sales scheduled for last year and formed the panel headed by Mr. Lujan.
A statement issued by the American Petroleum Institute, a trade association that includes the nation's biggest oil companies, said: ''We urge the President to choose the option to move ahead expeditiously. A long delay would hurt our nation.''
Lisa Speer,a staff member of the Natural Resources Defense Council who is an expert on offshore oil drilling, said the report appeared to be flawed because it included no option for the permanent cancellation of the lease sales. She also said the Administration was ''trying to suppress open debate on the issue'' by keeping the report secret.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; FLORIDA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL SPILLS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); BUDGETS (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); 

PERSON: SHABECOFF, PHILIP; LUJAN, MANUEL JR (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



100 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: The Boat People and the Commonwealth

 BODY:
The sad story of Hong Kong's Vietnamese boat people gets sadder by the day. News that the refugees are now willing to risk violence to avoid repatriation only increases the urgency for a more humane global response.
Just before Christmas, 51 boat people, mostly women and children, were taken by the British from camps in Hong Kong and deported to Hanoi. The deed was done secretly, at 3 A.M., to avoid unpleasant photographs. Now 40,000 more who face deportation are making homemade weapons and plotting resistance. Guards and prisoners have already been wounded in clashes; the next attempt at repatriation could lead to bloodier violence. 
No doubt this is deeply troubling to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and her flustered civil servants. They wish the boat people would understand that nobody relishes this dirty business. They patiently explain that boat people fleeing Vietnam are merely economic migrants, unprotected by refugee law. And yet anyone with a grain of spirit will rejoice at the refusal of these outcasts to go gently in the middle of the night.
Unless Mrs. Thatcher wishes to be remembered for dealing abominably with the helpless, she would be wise to put forced repatriation on indefinite hold. Yet her critics also need to think again. While Washington condemns forcible repatriation as ''odious,'' it resists more than token resettlement of boat people in the U.S. It also vetoes aid to Hanoi, whose problems caused the migrants to flee in the first place. And as British newspapers have noted, little help has come from the former British dominions that constitute the Commonwealth.
Here is a worthy challenge for an international group given to high-minded lecturing on human rights. The Commonwealth's 49 sovereign members include Canada, Australia and New Zealand. If these and others opened their wide gates, the 40,000 boat people could be swiftly distributed.
If the Commonwealth does nothing for the boat people, it will share ignobly in Britain's shame.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); VIETNAM (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); VIET NAM (73%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (59%); COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF NATIONS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM; HONG KONG; GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; BOAT PEOPLE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEPORTATION (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); VETO (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (54%); 

PERSON: THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN) MARGARET THATCHER (71%); 



101 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: The Editorial Notebook;
Moscow's New Deal Economics

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein

 BODY:
Thinking about economic restructuring on the grand Soviet scale is a thrill for any economist. So it was with special eagerness that I approached a recent meeting with Abel Aganbegyan, the Soviet guru of perestroika.
In his writing as in person, Mr. Aganbegyan lucidly diagnoses current ills. A sclerotic bureaucracy ineptly manages the economy and sabotages reform. The answer is to replace centralized planning with market forces. 
Yet Mr. Aganbegyan's idea of markets is jarring. He calls for price reform - but most prices would stay regulated. He calls for a free capital market - but selling shares of enterprises would be prohibited. His markets don't act much like markets, at least not in the Western sense. Government control remains dominant.
As I listened to him, I found myself reflecting upon a different set of reformers: the economists who advised Franklin Roosevelt in the 1930's. From the perspective of the 1990's, their advice seems confused and contradictory. The National Industrial Recovery Act, for example, probably hindered recovery from the Depression. Their mistakes seem baffling, until one recalls the skimpy state of macroeconomic concepts before Keynesian theories took hold after World War II. Policy contradictions went unrecognized because there was no simple macroeconomic framework to sort them out.
Mr. Aganbegyan seems similarly confused. His generation of Soviet economists is accustomed to directing capital with the aid of complex computer models. He seems palpably uncomfortable with markets in which resources flow at the whim of individual investors.
Can the Soviets design an economic path to private property and markets? A recent report by Mikhail Gorbachev's chief economic adviser, Leonid Abalkin, is modestly encouraging. Mr. Abalkin recognizes the subtle interaction between markets for goods, labor, foreign trade and capital. He understands that all these markets must be reformed at once for any one to work well.
Mr. Aganbegyan's enduring contribution was to prove that markets are needed. But it will take the increasing sophistication of Mr. Abalkin and his followers to execute the transition. Herbert Levine of the University of Pennsylvania thinks the Abalkin report presents ''a glimmer of hope'' that perestroika will succeed. Perhaps economic collapse in the Soviet Union has educated a new generation of economists just as economic collapse in the 1930's did in the U.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (73%); WORLD WAR II (68%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M; AGANBEGYAN, ABEL; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; ABALKIN, LEONID I ABEL GEZEVICH AGANBEGYAN (94%); FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT JR (56%); 



102 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
Truths Of the Pariahs

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

 BODY:
One day it may become respectable again, maybe even fashionable, to speak plain truths about some of the world's more important political realities.
Take, for instance, what has been happening in two countries in whose futures the United States has found itself very much involved - the Soviet Union and Panama.
Truth one about the Soviet Union is that while Communism collapses as an economic system in his country, Mikhail Gorbachev fights hard to save the Communist political apparatus.
Truth two is that he will fail. He cannot have both the freedoms demanded for economic survival and the monopoly power necessary to maintain the stultifying Communist political system. 
Truth three is that the United States' present naive, euphoric support for Mr. Gorbachev will make the elimination of the monopoly take longer and cause more pain to the Soviet people; eventually it will come, with or without him.
But respectability looms. The pariah band of those of us who talk and write that way broadens a little. Soon we may be legalized. The new issue of Daedalus, the journal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, carries a long, well-reasoned piece on the Soviet crisis - well-reasoned meaning I agree with it.
But it is a pity the author hid behind anonymity and that his editors agreed. For a newspaper or a magazine to use anonymous pieces is an invitation to mugging.
The author did not have the courage of Winston Lord, former Ambassador to China. In a Washington Post Op-Ed article, he attacked the decision to double-cross Chinese freedom fighters by sending that high-level mission to Beijing.
That means he can give up any lingering hope of getting another diplo-matic post, to which his talent and experience clearly entitle him. But he can reside in the embassy of his own self-respect.
How ironic that the Daedalus author chose anonymity to criticize the Soviet Union in the United States. Tens of thousands of men and women who were the victims of the Soviet system went to jail for telling similar truths in their own names, in their own country.
That takes us to Panama. We who insist on facing the truth about the Soviet Union can practice what we preach by spelling out truths about the American action in Panama.
There, truth one is that the United States had paid and embraced Manuel Antonio Noriega for years and armed his thugs.
We have done that before. We installed or propped up the dictators Batista and Somoza in Cuba and Nicaragua, and that fellow Stroessner who used to run Paraguay.
The result in Cuba and Nicaragua was justified rebellion that turned into dictatorship of the left - our very own bastard child.
Panama truth two is that President Bush correctly felt at last that it was in the best interests of the United States to stop our old pal. The grounds seem reasonable to me -General Noriega's statement that a state of war existed between Panama and the United States.
Leaders of the other American states denounced us, a longstanding defense of dictatorships firmly rooted in history, self-interest and hypocrisy.
But let's not pretend there are not strong legal arguments against one country sending in troops to throw out the government of another.
Still, my personal truth is I am glad that Mr. Bush made the decision not to be a good lawyer and to move against General Noriega at last, and that the operation was a success.
Panama truth three is that the United States will have a difficult time keeping him in an American jail. Judges will have to decide on the legality of the seizure and transport of General Noriega and the way evidence and witnesses were rounded up.
He should hope his lawyers are not too good. If they get him off he will have to face the Panamanian people, the very sight and sound of whom drove him into the arms of the American military.
The United States helped strengthen the same forces that became his strong, brutal arm. Attention: Now we are signing up many of the same Panamanians and giving them guns in the name of law and order. They march about, proclaiming their new devotion to democracy. Americans may believe them, but not Panamanian civilians who may be beaten again by these guardians of freedom.
That point brings us straight to the final Panamanian truth: American expediency got us into the mess, and if we don't keep an eye on reality, expediency may get us in again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PANAMA (94%); NICARAGUA (92%); CUBA (85%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (69%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS & SCIENCES (55%); AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS & SCIENCES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAEDALUS (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); PANAMA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (75%); TRENDS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN) MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (72%); WINSTON LORD (54%); 



103 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: NORIEGA'S SURRENDER;
Panama in Disorder: The 1980's

 BODY:

 
March 1982: After the death in 1981 of the armed forces chief, Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera, three senior officers - Col. Manuel Antonio Noriega, Col. Ruben Darlo Paredes and Col. Roberto Diaz Herrera - cut a deal to resolve ja power struggle. Paredes is promoted to general, takes over as armed forces chief and agrees to retire in August 1983, leaving Noriega to take over, with Diaz Herrera as second-in-command. Noriega promises jto deliver 1984 presidential election to Paredes. 
 
August 1983: Noriega, now a general, takes over as commander of the armed forces. The Panamanian legislature passes a law creating the Panamanian Defense Forces with control over National Guard, other Panamanian military and police forces, canal matters and functions such as immigration control and regulation of civilian aircraft. Noriega reneges on Paredes deal and installs his own President in 1984 election.
 
June 1987: Diaz Herrera, retiring as second-in-command, accuses Noriega of drug-related activities, rigging 1984 election and murdering Hugo Spadafora, former Vice Minister of Health who accused Noriega of drug trafficking. Protest movement demands investigation into Diaz Herrera allegations and return to democracy. Street protests are brutally crushed.
 
February 1988: Federal grand jury in Miami indicts Noriega on drug-running charges. Grand jury in Tampa returns similar indictment. President Eric Arturo Delvalle, who was put in place by Noriega, announces that he has dismissed his patron. Noriega-dominated National Assembly ousts Delvalle, who goes into hiding.
 
PUB-DATE: March 11, 1988:
 
PUB-DATE: March 16, 1988:
 
April 1988: United States increases economic sanctions. Some $56 million in Panamanaian funds in American banks are frozen.
 
May 7-9, 1989: Presidential election pits Noriega candidate against the opposition candidate Guillermo Endara. Noriega forces claim victory, but protesters and international observers say voting was rigged. Former President Jimmy Carter, an observer, says Noriega stole the election.
 
PUB-DATE: May 10, 1989:
 
Oct. 3, 1989: Attempted coup against Noriega fails. American forces stationed in Panama take some steps to block pro-Noriega reinforcements from attacking the rebels; President Bush is widely criticized for not doing more.
 
Dec. 15, 1989: Panamanian legislature declares Panama in a ''state of war'' with the United States and appoints Noriega chief executive officer to respond.
 
Dec. 16, 1989: Panamanian soldiers kill a U.S. Marine lieutenant, saying he and three others drove a car past checkpoints, then fired at Noriega's military headquarters building, wounding two civilians and a soldier. Unites States says the four were unarmed and got lost near the headquarters.
 
Dec. 20, 1989: Bush orders American troops into combat in Panama. White House says the mission is to seize Noriega, to protect American lives, restore democracy and preserve the integrity of Panama Canal. ARmed resistance is quickly reduced, but Noriega eludes manhunt.
 
Dec. 24, 1989: Noriega seeks refuge at Vatican Embassy. Bush Administration demands he be turned over to face drug charges.
 
Jan. 3, 1990: Noriega leaves the Vatican Embassy and turns himself over the U.S. authorities.
 
Jan. 4, 1990: Noriega is arraigned in Miami.
 
Source: Associated Press

GRAPHIC: photos: Guillermo Ford, the opposition vice-presidential candidate, being beaten May 10, 1989, by a supporter of the Noriega Government. (Reuters); Endara

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); PANAMA (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC ARMED FORCES (90%); GRAND JURY (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COUPS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MURDER (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%); POLICE FORCES (58%); 

PERSON: NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN) RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



104 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns;
Quiet Community Stirs When Feast Turns Violent

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

DATELINE: NAUGATUCK, Conn.

 BODY:
For 40 years, the Portuguese community in Naugatuck has celebrated St. Paio, a patron saint, and the celebration has evolved into the biggest social event of the year for the 6,000 Portuguese and Portuguese-Americans who make up 20 percent of the town's population.
St. Paio is the patron saint of the northern seacoast town of Torreira in Portugal, where most of the Portuguese in Naugatuck came from, and the transplanted festival, which occurs every year around Labor Day, is normally three days of dancing, drinking and general celebration for the Portuguese, tourists and townspeople alike.
But last fall's love feast turned to trouble. ''The whole incident was regrettable,'' said Mayor John Letts. 
''It awakened a sleeping giant,'' said Joseph Fonseca, the Vice Consul in the Portuguese Consulate in Waterbury, who is a resident of Naugatuck and sort of an unofficial mayor of the Portuguese community.
What happened was that the celebrants, about 2,000 or so, spilled out of the Club Uniao Portuguesa, the Portuguese Union Club, into the streets. A fight started between two young men, only one of them Portuguese, and he from out of town, and the police were called. Two officers responded.
The police officers - ''young officers,'' said the Mayor; ''rookies,'' said Mr. Fonseca - found themselves in a hostile crowd, insults were exchanged, and the officers called for reinforcements.
Other officers responded to the ''officer in trouble'' call, and the incident escalated. The state police were called. They closed the festival, and several Portuguese, organizers of the festival, were arrested.
''That galvanized the whole community,'' said Duarte Alves, an accountant who works for the state and came to Naugatuck from Portugal 10 years ago.
Mr. Alves is the secretary of a newly formed political action group, the Portuguese-American Polical Action Committee. It is the first such group in the state, and perhaps the first in the nation dedicated solely to representing the interests of Portuguese and Portugese-Americans. It formed as a result of the incident at the Portuguese Union Club.
''Our goal is that the Portuguese community will be recognized as a social, economic and political entity,'' Mr. Alves said.
''There was a group of us all along who felt that we needed better representation,'' said Frank Rodrigues, the president of the newly formed group. ''But we never got anything started.
''But this time, people felt there was a terrible police overreaction,'' he said. ''We decided to stop talking and start doing.''
Traditionally, said Mr. Fonseca, who holds dual Portuguese and American citizenship, the Portugese in America have been hard-working and non-complaining, in large measure because there was little tradition for democratic protest in Portugal, and as a result they were regarded with a kind of paternal noblesse oblige.
''They always say we are peaceful, hardworking and law abiding, and you can eat off the floors of our houses,'' he said. ''It's true and I think that is the way they want it.''
But indeed, concedes Mr. Fonseca and others in the Portuguese community here and perhaps elsewhere, there has been a reluctance to confront authority - indeed, even to swim to the mainstream.
''That Portuguese don't want to become involved is a fact,'' he said.
Indeed, in Naugatuck, about half the residents of Portuguese extraction are not citizens, and a large number speak English poorly, or in some cases not at all.
''We are 20 percent of a population of 30,000, and half are not citizens,'' Mr. Alves said. ''One of our objectives is to conduct a census and determine just how many are not citizens.''
Once such a census is carried out, organizers say, the group will work with the schools and city hall to create classes to help people become citizens.
''We are going to promote classes to naturalize our noncitizens,'' said Mr. Fonseca. ''Once they are citizens, they will become voters, and once they are voters they can become a political organization.''
At the moment, he said, the movement is local, but organizers hope it will expand statewide to involve the about 70,000 Portuguese and Portuguse-Americans who now, partly by choice, have little political voice For his part, Mayor Letts says he is delighted by the prospect, though he says he is not prepared to make any public apology for the incident at the festival of St. Paio.
''We will just work to make it much more successful next year,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PORTUGAL (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORTUGUESE-AMERICAN POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NAUGATUCK (CONN)

SUBJECT: PORTUGUESE-AMERICANS; DISORDERLY CONDUCT; POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES CITIES (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (85%); US LABOR DAY (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); ARRESTS (66%); 

PERSON: KING, WAYNE JOSEPH FONSECA (89%); DUARTE ALVES (79%); 



105 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Fills Operations and Economic Posts

BYLINE: By LEONARD BUDER

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins filled two more major positions in his administration yesterday, selecting as his director of operations a New York City school official whom he credited with helping to reduce the bureaucracy at the Board of Education. The Mayor also named an investment banker to head the city's economic-development effort.
The school official, Harvey Robins, said he intended to spend about 14 hours a day trying to ''wring'' the excess from the city government bureauracy. 
For the last 18 months, Mr. Robins, 42 years old, has been the Deputy Schools Chancellor for Financial Affairs. He previously served as the deputy administrator in the city's Human Resources Administration, where, the Mayor said, he helped improve the delivery of social services. His new title will be Director of the Mayor's Office of Operations.
 
A 'Deal Maker'
Mr. Dinkins, on his fourth day in office, also named Leressa R. Crockett, a 38-year-old investment banker, as Commissioner of the Financial Services Corporation, a not-for-profit city corporation that promotes economic development by offering below-market-rate loans and other assistance.
Observing that Ms. Crockett, a vice president at Salomon Brothers, had spent nearly a decade as a ''deal maker'' who put together ''business proposals worth hundreds of millions of dollars,'' Mr. Dinkins said, ''We need creative, experienced financial decision makers working hard to keep business in the city.''
Both Mr. Robins and Ms. Crockett will take office by next month, Mr. Dinkins said. Each will receive an annual salary of $110,000. Mr. Robins said that is about the same as his present salary, but Ms. Crockett said she will be taking an unspecified cut in pay.
 
Critical Jobs Unfilled
But a number of critical city positions remain to be filled, among them human resources administrator, health commissioner, labor relations director, and head of the City Planning Commission.
Introducing the two appointees at a City Hall news conference, Mr. Dinkins said Mr. Robins had overseen a 20 percent reduction in the central Board of Education staff and had redirected more than $60 million from headquarters functions to new educational and support services.
A Board of Education spokesman, Robert H. Terte, said that since 1988, the headquarters staff had been reduced, in two phases, to 5,224 from 6,447. The reduction of 1,223 employees was achieved through transfers to jobs outside headquarters, attrition, and the elimination of unfilled positions, Mr. Terte said.
Responding to reporters' questions, Mr. Robins said that there were still too many people working at board headquarters, and that he has been working on additional reductions that the new Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez, would announce later this month.
Asked whether he saw ''a bloated bureaucracy in city government,'' Mr. Robins replied, ''Absolutely.'''
He noted at another point that he had played a role in Mr. Fernandez's decision to take away city cars from 14 top-level Board of Education officials. Asked if he would try to do the same at City Hall, Mr. Robins paused, and then, amid considerable laughter from reporters and others, said, ''I'll defer to the First Deputy Mayor on that.''
The Mayor provoked more laughter when he asked, ''Will you try to see to it that I keep mine?''

GRAPHIC: photo: Harvey Robins, left, who has been appointed Director of the Mayor's Office of Operations, with Leressa R. Crockett, center, who will become Commissioner of the Financial Services Corporation. Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero, Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, was at right. Mayor David N. Dinkins made the announcements yesterday at a news conference at City Hall. (NYT/Sara Krulwich)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCI (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7261 FUNERAL SERVICES & CREMATORIES (55%); SIC6553 CEMETERY SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL SERVICES MANAGEMENT CORP (57%); FINANCIAL SERVICES CO SA OG (57%); FINANCIAL SERVICES INCOME STREAMS CORP (57%); FINANCIAL SERVICES MARKETING CORP (57%); SERVICE CORP INTERNATIONAL (55%); CENTRAL BOARD OF EDUCATION (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES CORP (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CITIES (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); POLITICS (66%); 

PERSON: BUDER, LEONARD; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); ROBINS, HARVEY; CROCKETT, LERESSA R HARVEY ROBINS (93%); DAVID N DINKINS (93%); 



106 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: METRO DATELINES;
Woman, 31, Dies From Severe Beating

DATELINE: MANHATTAN

 BODY:
A 31-year-old woman was found severely beaten in her apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan on Wednesday and died that night, the police said yesterday. There have been no arrests. 
The woman, Julie Farrell, was found lying on the living room floor of her apartment at 47 West 75th Street at 3 P.M. Wednesday by her boyfriend, the police said. She was taken to St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, where she died at 11:55 P.M.
Sgt. Nick Vreeland said yesterday that there was no evidence of a break-in, adding, ''The boyfriend has cooperated fully and is not a suspect at this time.''
Ms. Farrell was unemployed. The police said she took dance lessons at the Steps Dance School at 2121 Broadway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ROOSEVELT HOSPITAL (56%); STEPS DANCE SCHOOL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; UPPER WEST SIDE (MANHATTAN)

SUBJECT: ASSAULTS

PERSON: FARRELL, JULIE JULIE FARRELL (83%); NICK VREELAND (56%); 



107 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: THE LAW;
For the Record

 BODY:

Ambiguity of the Law
The following excerpt is from ''American Lawyers'' by Richard L. Abel (Oxford University Press, 1989). Mr. Abel is a professor of law at the University of California at Los Angeles.
All law is inescapably two-faced. It reproduces and justifies existing inequalities and injustices; yet it also embodies ideals and offers mechanisms through which they can be pursued. Lawyers display the same moral ambiguity. The legal profession has constructed and defended an elaborate constellation of economic, social and political privileges. It propounds an ideology that allows lawyers to escape difficult moral choices by invoking their technical expertise. 
Most lawyers persist in seeing their daily work as morally neutral and apolitical. Yet many are attracted to the profession precisely because they embrace law as a ''transformative vocation'' (to use Roberto Unger's eloquent phrase) and wish to dedicate themselves to ''struggle against the defects or the limits of existing society.'' A few remain committed to that ideal throught their legal career.
 
Debut for Dershowitz
The following was excerpted from an article that first appeared in the Harvard Crimson last fall and subsequently was reprinted in the Harvard Law Record.
A veteran of 25 years at HLS [Harvard Law School] and both the Geraldo Rivera and Morton Downey Jr. shows, Prof. Alan Dershowitz will return to the airwaves as a special consultant to People's Court Judge Joseph Wapner. During five shows tentatively scheduled for this week, Wapner occasionally mentions legal discussions with Dershowitz. In one, the civil libertarian is introduced in the audience.
Although Dershowitz has argued in higher courts, statistics suggest that his appearance on the courtroom show will be a greater boost for his fame. According to a recent survey, 54 percent of Americans can recognize and name Wapner, while only 9 percent can identify U.S. Supreme Court Justice William Rehnquist.
''Well, Judge Wapner's a better judge than Rehnquist,'' Dershowitz said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: AMERICAN LAWYERS (BOOK); THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD CRIMSON (MAGAZINE)

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); JUDGES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); 

PERSON: ABEL, RICHARD L; DERSHOWITZ, ALAN M (PROF) ALAN M DERSHOWITZ (67%); JOSEPH A WAPNER (67%); GERALDO RIVERA (54%); MORTON DOWNEY JR (54%); 



108 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
Real estate investors and prospective home buyers are jamming the phone lines of the Government agency that this week began selling billions of dollars' worth of properties owned by failed savings institutions. Callers hope for bargains, but it is questionable whether the program, which promises to be the largest real estate sale in the nation's history, will provide them. [Page D1.] 
Charles H. Keating Jr., testifying in a crowded Washington courtroom, denied any wrongdoing in connection with his Lincoln Savings and Loan Association, which was taken over by Federal regulators last April. During an hour of mild questioning by Government attorneys, Mr. Keating was unshaken and calm, joking at times with District Judge Stanley Sporkin. [D1.]
American auto makers had badly depressed sales for both late December and last year, and voiced little confidence that the current sales incentives are enough to solve their problem despite a late surge in light-truck sales. A Japanese car model, the Honda Accord, was for the first time the best-selling car. [D2.]
Many big retailers reported moderate sales gains in December, bolstered by a pre-Christmas buying pickup. [D4.]
 
 
 
Companies
Robert Campeau surrendered about $100 million worth of his own stock in his flagship company, the Campeau Corporation, to the National Bank of Canada when he defaulted on a loan to two of his private investment companies. [D1.]
The Pacific Telesis Group plans to cut 11,000 jobs, or 16 percent of its work force, in the next five years to trim costs. [D4.]
 
 
 
Markets
Crude oil prices are likely to decline gradually to $18 or $19 a barrel for the benchmark West Texas Intermediate oil by mid-March, according to some industry analysts, even though prices surged to a four-year high of $23.68 on Wednesday. [D1.]
The dollar tumbled after the Bundesbank intervened in foreign-exchange markets unexpectedly. In late New York trading, the dollar was at 1.6785 marks, down 4.39 pfennigs from 1.7224 on Wednesday. The dollar lost 1.87 yen, to 142.85. [D13.]
Stock prices fell broadly, depressed by caution in advance of the Government's Friday report of employment data. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 13.65 points, to 2,796.08. Traders cited the dollar's tumble and program selling. [D6.] Prices of Treasury securities ended narrowly mixed in fairly light trading. [D12.]
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved a proposed rule to restrict dual trading on the nation's largest commodity markets, a first step toward banning the practice. [D2.]
 
International
Czechoslovakia's Government plans to propose the annulment of previous Eastern bloc trade agreements at a meeting in Bulgaria next week. Prague also devalued its currency sharply against the dollar - 38 Czechoslovak crowns to the dollar instead of 9 for tourists and 17 to the dollar for commercial transactions. [A1.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Most economists foresee no recession in the next few years, even after seven straight years of economic expansion, One reason is that the United States has become an ''open economy,'' buoyed by inflows of foreign capital. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Los Angeles magazine is one of the most profitable monthlies devoted to a particular city, with 40 percent of its advertising coming from coveted national advertisers. Advertising. [D5.]
Investment advisers and mutual funds failed to match the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index last year. But the investment advisers, with a total return of 29.1 percent in comparison to 31.6 percent for the S.& P. index, fared better than the stock mutual funds, which rose 23.95 percent on average. Market Place. [D1.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: RLE (LSE) (58%); NA (TSX) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (69%); BULGARIA (58%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (69%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (67%); REAL ESTATE INVESTORS PLC (58%); NATIONAL BANK OF CANADA (55%); PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP INC (54%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (91%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); RETAIL SALES (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); APPROVALS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); JUDGES (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); COMMODITIES TRADING (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); LAWYERS (68%); CHRISTMAS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); DEVALUATION (67%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); HISTORY (56%); 

PERSON: CHARLES H KEATING JR (72%); ROBERT JOSEPH CAMPEAU (68%); 



109 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Surge in Oil Prices Falters As Gradual Decline Is Seen

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Jan. 4

 BODY:
After surging this week to one of its highest trading levels in four years, oil prices are likely to decline gradually before reaching a low point sometime in the spring, industry analysts said today.
Another cold snap or a display of unity by members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to limit production could keep the price of the American benchmark crude, West Texas Intermediate, from falling below $20 a barrel by the middle of March. But most of the analysts said they would be surprised by either development. 
In trading today on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the spot price for February contracts of West Texas Intermediate fell by 19 cents a barrel, to $23.49. The final price on Wednesday, $23.68, was the highest closing price for the oil futures contract in four years, except for a one-day surge of more than $2 a barrel last April 20, to a peak of $24.65.
Philip K. Verleger Jr., a specialist in global oil markets at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, predicted the price for West Texas Intermediate would fall to $18 or $19 a barrel by mid-March. ''If we get an economic slowdown and oil demand drops, we may not see today's price level again for a couple of years,'' he said.
He and other analysts noted that daily production by the 13 members of OPEC rose to nearly 24 million barrels in recent weeks, or by two million barrels above the ceiling set by the organization at its November meeting in Vienna.
Few analysts expect OPEC members to follow the new production limits, which took effect on Monday.
Several unusual factors contributed to soaring prices in recent weeks, including temperatures that averaged 10 degrees below normal, disruptions in producing fields and temporary shutdowns at many Gulf Coast refineries. Over all, oil demand in the United States was eight million barrels above normal from Nov. 28 to Dec. 30.
''If OPEC misreads this as being a fundamental shift in demand, prices could get very weak,'' said Lawrence Goldstein, the executive vice president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York. If demand in the United States returns to normal levels and OPEC production remains high throughout the winter, he noted, prices will also decline.
But even if oil prices do tumble in the spot markets, homeowners in the Northeast, where prices for home-heating oil soared by nearly 50 percent, to $1.30 a gallon, during last month's cold period, will not get much relief from higher prices before winter ends.
Many oil distributors are beginning to pass along to consumers the higher prices they paid for oil deliveries in December, and they will not cut retail prices in tandem with declines that are expected for the crude oil spot markets, Mr. Verleger said.
Other problems loom that could make global oil markets tight and send prices higher than expected. The Soviet Union, the world's largest oil-producing nation, has deepening production problems. Some reports have placed Soviet daily production a million barrels below its average 1988 output of 12.2 million barrels a day for oil and for liquefied natural gas.
This decline could force Soviet officials to limit oil exports to Europe, and put a further squeeze on oil supplies there. Rumania has also cut oil exports to Western Europe, where demand was unusually high during a November cold wave. Also, output in the North Sea has faltered after several explosions involving production platforms and pipelines last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (69%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (69%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES; 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; PRODUCTION; FORECASTS OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FUTURES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); SPOT MARKET (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); PETROLEUM WHOLESALERS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (72%); HOMEOWNERS (64%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C PHILIP K VERLEGER JR (58%); 



110 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Sales Lure Investors

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
Attracted by the hope of bargains, real estate investors and prospective home buyers are jamming the phone lines of the Government agency that this week began selling billions of dollars' worth of properties owned by failed savings institutions.
But it is questionable whether the program, which promises to be the largest real estate sale in the nation's history, will result in as many bargains as buyers might hope, real estate experts and Government officials said yesterday. The program will bring thousands of houses, condominium apartments, office buildings, shopping centers and other properties onto the national market, perhaps further depressing prices in already glutted markets like the Southwest.
But Government officials say they are determined to make sales in an orderly manner. And they note that they must sell each property for at least 95 percent of its appraised value, as the bailout bill requires. 
 
Where Opportunities Are
''There are going to be opportunities, but they aren't going to be in buying at a deep discount,'' said Stan Ross, the co-managing partner of Kenneth Leventhal & Company, a real estate consulting firm in Los Angeles. ''The opportunities are going to be in the ability of buyers to sort through and identify properties that they can work on and create more value.''
Real estate executives said, however, that many properties would prove unattractive to potential buyers, particularly apartment complexes and small office buildings, and that the Government may be unrealistic in believing that it can command full price for them.
 
'Aren't All Cats and Dogs'
''The properties aren't all cats and dogs,'' said David W. Gleeson, the president of the Lincoln Asset Management Company, one of the largest real estate concerns in Dallas. ''But it is going to be difficult to find investors. It will be a rude awakening for the Government to find that they have to lower prices.''
Under the program, the Resolution Trust Corporation is offering for sale residential and commercial buildings and undeveloped land owned by hundreds of insolvent savings and loan associations that have been seized by the Government. The properties are available for sale to anyone interested, from individual home buyers to huge real estate companies.
Most of the residential properties will be listed by local realtors, which will handle them just as if they were privately owned. The commercial properties will generally be sold through regional offices of the Government agency, through the savings institutions themselves or through brokers hired by the trust agency.
On Tuesday, the trust agency published an inventory of the more than 30,000 properties it had taken control of through Sept. 30. Since then the agency has been besieged with phone calls - 8,000 on Wednesday alone, with 200 callers on hold at any one time - as people scrambled for information on what many perceived as a fire sale.
Texas has by far the greatest number of properties for sale - 15,750. Its neighbors in the oil patch also had high totals, with 1,575 in Oklahoma and 2,434 in Louisiana. The only other states with more than 1,000 properties on the lists are Florida, with 1,288, and Arizona, with 1,711.
In contrast, New York had only 12, New Jersey, 11; Connecticut and Delaware, 2 each, and New Hampshire, 1, while several states had none -Maine, North Dakota, South Dakota, Vermont and West Virginia.
 
Desire for a Bargain
''There's a lot of desire out there to get a bargain,'' said Stephen Katsanos, a spokesman for Resolution Trust. ''There's a feeling that if they don't get in there now, they may miss an opportunity. But people may be disappointed when we don't accept an outlandishly low offer.''
The residential properties on the list encompass everything from a $4 million mansion in Malibu, Calif., to a 500-square-foot house in poor condition in Louisiana. The commercial properties include office buildings, shopping centers, hotels, stables and even boat slips.
Mr. Katsanos said the Government's inventory of properties was continuing to swell as more institutions were taken over by regulators. He said the properties on the current list were probably less than half of what the Government would ultimately possess.
The inventory list published this week has only skeletal information about the properties offered for sale, including a brief description of size and location. Asking prices are included for some properties, although the values have yet to be set for many of them. Most listings include the name and phone number of someone to call about purchasing the property. The others include information about which savings institution had the property and how to reach that institution.
 
Toll-Free Number
To take orders for the inventory list, the trust agency has set up a toll-free telephone number: (800) 431-0600. The complete inventory of 26,813 residential properties, 2,516 commercial properties and 794 land parcels is available for a charge of $50. The volumes containing the commercial and land properties can be purchased separately for $10 each, and separate sections listing just single-family or multifamily housing are $15 each.
In addition to selling properties through local realtors and brokers and consultants who specialize in distressed property sales, the trust agency is also considering a number of unconventional approaches, including displaying some of the properties on cable television programs and working with a company that sets up international auctions by satellite.
Residential properties listed by local realtors will not be distinguished from other homes and condominiums. ''In a lot of cases the buyer may not even know this is a Government property they're dealing with,'' Mr. Katsanos said. Some real estate experts are skeptical of the Government's ability to manage such a huge undertaking efficiently. ''The first piece of advice I'd give to investors is that they should go into the process with a lot of patience,'' said James W. Field, a liquidation expert at Coldwell Banker, the real estate company. ''It's going to take a lot of time and you're going to have to learn to deal with the foibles of the bureaucracy.''
 
Volume Seen Causing Chaos
Perhaps more important, some real estate professionals said that the Government will never be able to develop a firm grasp on the value of the properties it is selling, and that the sheer volume of the properties it puts up for sale will inevitably cause chaos in the marketplace and drive prices down in some areas.
Almost by definition, the greatest concentration of properties the Government is now trying to peddle are in those regions hardest hit by economic downturns and falling real estate prices. As a result, finding buyers for a greater number of properties without pushing prices down may be impossible, some experts said.
For those who are interested in the properties but do not want to buy the books, the lists are also being distributed to 1,400 libraries across the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (59%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REAL ESTATE; HOUSING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS REAL ESTATE (94%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); RETAILERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); DOGS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); CATS (64%); HISTORY (56%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W STEPHEN KATSANOS (57%); 



111 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Business Cycle's New Stability

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
IS the business cycle dead? The United States economy has now completed seven straight years of expansion, the longest in its peacetime history. Most economists foresee no recession in 1990 or 1991, and 1992 will be another Presidential election year, when the odds tip strongly against recession. Japan, West Germany and most of the other capitalist countries of Europe and Asia are also on a long upward roll, with no end in sight. It is time to consider whether the capitalist system has experienced a fundamental change in its stability, as important in its own way as the decay of the Communist system.
To be sure, plenty of people worry that the long spell of stable growth may still end with a bang, conceivably this year. Ravi Batra's latest best seller is called ''Surviving the Great Depression of 1990.'' But the crash of October 1987, and the market plunge of Friday, Oct. 13, 1989, have come and gone without stopping the expansion of the real economy. 
Those economists who have been warning for years that the United States is bound to suffer a ''hard landing'' actually demonstrate how resilient the American economy is. In saying just that, Lawrence Summers of Harvard, who was Michael S. Dukakis's chief economic adviser in the 1988 campaign, warns that the wolf could still come. Writing in The Financial Times this week, Professor Summers said: ''In the end, the wolf ate the boy. It would be a mistake to bet too strongly on the American economy in general or the dollar in particular over the next few years.''
This is not a partisan position. Speaking at a news conference in Atlanta last week, Michael J. Boskin, President Bush's chief economic adviser, foresaw moderate growth in 1990 but warned that the United States faces the danger ''not of a heart attack, but cancer'' - a gradual wearing away of its economic strength from inadequate savings and continuous dependence on foreign savings to finance domestic budget deficits, trade deficits and private investment.
Nevertheless, why has the danger of an economic ''heart attack'' ebbed? And why have those economists who expected a collapse of the real economy erred, year after year, despite the instability of financial markets and the dollar?
One source of error, common since the development of national income accounts and the heavy focus on the national economy, has been to see the United States economy as ''closed.'' In this view, the principal determinants of national income are domestic consumption, private domestic investment and government spending - with net exports a small tail incapable of wagging a very big dog.
In the postwar years the United States has increasingly become an ''open economy,'' as international flows of goods and services - and, far more important, capital - have grown to shape the national economy, thus far toward greater real stability.
The shortage of private domestic savings, aggravated by the Federal budget deficit, has been covered by capital inflow from abroad, thereby sustaining business investment and keeping the American economy growing. Of course, this has meant the transfer of United States assets to foreign hands. That disturbs many nationalists, but the immediate consequences for American growth in output, income and employment have been positive. Cutting off that foreign capital inflow now would drive United States interest rates through the roof.
A team of economists at Salomon Brothers, headed by David G. Shulman, contends that the liberalization of financial markets has, paradoxically, increased the volatility of securities and currency markets but has improved the stability of the real economy. The Salomon team concludes that this trend will continue and that the economic climate in the coming decade will still favor financial assets over real assets or cash.
Deregulation, according to this analysis, has enhanced United States growth prospects, ''even though it has not repealed the business cycle.'' Financial market liberalization acts as a ''shock absorber'' for the real economy, with price substituting for quantity in rationing credits. And deregulation means greater labor and capital mobility, attracting resources from weak sectors or regions to strong or growing sectors.
Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve holds to a cautious policy, accepting modest growth in exchange for lower inflation. The Salomon economists predict that disinflation will pave the way for lower interest rates, aided by lower Federal deficits resulting from the scaling back of military spending.
Similarly, Thomas W. Synnott 3d of U.S. Trust predicts that with a smaller Federal deficit relative to G.N.P. and lower inflation, long-term real interest rates on Treasury securities ''could easily move down from the current 3 1/2 to 4 percent range to 1 1/2 to 2 percent, their historic norm.''
Such a cut in the cost of capital would spur the industrial and public investment so urgently needed to enhance United States international competitiveness - a major goal for the 1990's.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: SBW (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (67%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); CONSUMPTION (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



112 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Car Sales Off 20.2% at End Of December

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
Despite a late surge in light-truck sales, American auto makers ended December and last year with total sales badly depressed and little confidence that the current salesroom incentives are enough to solve the problem.
Late December car sales by domestic manufacturers were down 20.2 percent from the period in 1988, a slightly smaller rate of decline than earlier in the month. Light-truck sales by domestic manufacturers were up 1 percent. There were eight selling days during the last selling period of the year, compared with nine a year earlier. 
The late surge in the light-truck market was helped by a 16.1 percent increase at the Ford Motor Company and a 19.8 percent gain at the Chrysler Corporation, which for the first time offered incentives on its popular mini-vans. The vans are counted as light trucks.
 
'Not a Disaster'
For the year, the United States auto industry sold nearly 14.6 million vehicles - 9.8 million cars and 4.8 million light trucks, domestically produced and imported - the fifth-largest total ever, said Joel Pitcoff, an analyst for Ford. In 1988, the industry sold 15.8 million vehicles. ''It wasn't a strong year and not a disaster,'' Mr. Pitcoff said. ''We had less than excellent results at high cost.''
One sign of the times: A Japanese car model, the Honda Accord, was for the first time the best-selling car in the United States. The Honda Motor Company sold 362,707 accords, 60 percent of which were produced in Marysville, Ohio. The car's closest rival, the Ford Taurus, sold 348,061 units. Last year's leader, the Ford Escort, dropped to No. 3.
The American auto market in 1989 was characterized by the rising influence of the transplants - the United States-based assembly plants operated by Japanese auto makers. The growing production at these plants allowed all major Japanese auto makers to gain market share at the expense of the industry's leader, The General Motors Corporation, and Chrysler.
G.M.'s market share, including domestic and imported cars, dropped to 34.8 percent in 1989 from 36 percent a year earlier. Chrysler's market share fell to 10.3 percent from 13.7 percent a year earlier. Ford managed a slight gain, to 22 percent from 21.6 percent in the period.
Honda remained the top seller in the United States among Japanese auto makers, with a 7.9 percent share of the market, up from 7.3 percent in 1988. The Toyota Motor Corporation increased its share to 7.2 percent from 6.5 percent. The Nissan Motor Corporation raised its share to 5.6 percent from 4.5 percent, while the Mazda Motor Corporation went to 2.7 percent from 2.4 percent and the Mitsubishi Motor Corporation to 1.2 percent from seven-tenths of 1 percent.
 
Incentives a Major Factor
For most of the year, the Detroit producers were able to sell their cars by offering big rebates and subsidized low-interest loans, which cut deeply into profits. But toward the end of the year even rebates and attractive loans could not keep sales from falling.
In December, sales of domestically produced cars fell 23 percent, to 455,686, from 614,860 a year earlier. There were 25 sales days in December, compared with 26 sales days in 1988. The seasonally adjusted rate for the month was 6.5 million units, down from 8.4 million a year earlier.
Sales of imported cars in December dropped 22.5 percent, to 194,543, compared with 261,082 a year earlier. Sales of domestically produced light trucks in December dropped 6 percent, to 299,170, from 331,030 in the 1988 period.
Detroit executives attributed the depressed sales to everything from consumer confusion over rebate programs to bad weather. But several acknowledged that with interest rates, inflation and unemployment all comparatively low, they were puzzled by the weak market.
 
Upturn Foreseen
''We don't have an answer, and none of the speculations satisfy my logic,'' said Alex J. Trotman, executive vice president of Ford's automotive operations in North America. But he said showroom traffic had improved since Christmas and added that he had a ''gut feel'' that the slight improvement in the last 10-day period of December presaged generally better sales.
John Middlebrook, vice president of General Motors and head of the Pontiac division, said, ''Consumers may be confused on incentives, believing that they will get better,'' and thus delaying purchases.
Robert L. Rewey, a Ford vice president, noted that cars bought with five-year loans in 1985, a strong sales year, would be paid off soon, ''creating a substantial reservoir of potential replacement demand during 1990.''

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing car sales and light-truck sales for Dec. '89 (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (85%); 7267 (TSE) (85%); TYT (LSE) (83%); TM (NYSE) (83%); 7203 (TSE) (83%); 7261 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (85%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (83%); MAZDA MOTOR CORP (83%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN HAWAII LTD (50%); NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN GUAM (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; SALES AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); MINIVANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P JOEL PITCOFF (55%); 



113 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Rules On Emissions

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency proposed regulations today to reduce hydrocarbon releases from cars and trucks when gasoline evaporates.
The proposal would change how vehicle emission tests are to be run and would require auto makers to modify vehicle emission control equipment such that atmospheric hydrocarbon levels would fall about 5 percent, the agency said. 
The modifications are said to be minor and should add only about $10 to the cost of a car, an amount that would be more than offset by better fuel economy, the agency said.
Hydrocarbons from motor vehicles react with the sun to form ozone. When the are combined with particulates in the air, the result is smog.
The proposal would require emissions testing to be changed to assure that hydrocarbon releases from the normal evaporation of gasoline are better controlled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; AUTOMOBILES; HYDROCARBONS; TESTS AND TESTING; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING EMISSIONS (92%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); PARTICULATE MATTER (88%); SMOG (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (88%); 



114 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Say Sales Rose In December

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Many of the nation's big retailers yesterday reported that sales were moderately higher in December, bolstered by a buying pickup in the final days before Christmas.
General merchandise chains, department stores and discount operations posted December results that mostly met their expectations for the holiday season. Analysts said the industry was saved from a lackluster sales performance by price discounts, aggressive advertising and special promotions.
''Santa came late, but he did come,'' said Jeffrey Feiner, retail analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company. 
 
Pre-Christmas Sales
Retailers' sales are considered an important indicator of consumer spending, which accounts for a big portion of the nation's economic activity. In the recent holiday shopping season, performances differed depending on the type of retailer. Various regional factors, like the weather, also had an effect.
The holidays are a crucial time for retailers because half or more of their profits are made between Thanksgiving and Christmas. Worried about softness in consumer spending, retailers increased promotions, with many offering big pre-Christmas sales.
''If the retailer hadn't had the hook out, he wouldn't have had any customers in the stores,'' said Walter Loeb of Morgan Stanley & Company. He estimated that sales grew about 5 percent in December from a year earlier, down from a 7.5 percent increase in December 1988.
 
Sears Up 3.6%
The nation's largest retailer, Sears, Roebuck & Company, had a mediocre showing, as the low-pricing policy it adopted last March continued to hurt results.
Sears said its sales rose 3.6 percent in the five weeks ended Dec. 30, to $4.696 billion, from $4.53 billion in the similar period last year. But Sears posted only a 1.6 percent gain at stores open at least a year. These comparable, or same-store, sales are considered a better indicator of a retailer's performance than data that include newly opened stores. New stores often benefit from retailing momentum because of their novelty.
 
Woolworth Sales Strong
Among the chains turning in strong holiday performances was the Woolworth Corporation, which had an 11.2 percent increase in domestic sales. ''Benefiting from strong sales gains in all divisions during Christmas week, our December results were in line with our expectations,'' said Harold E. Sells, the company's chairman and chief executive.
Even more pleased was Kenneth A. Macke, the chairman and chief executive of the Minneapolis-based Dayton Hudson Corporation, who said solid gains at all divisions were ''more encouraging because they came on top of a strong December'' in 1988. Dayton Hudson, the owner of department stores and the Target discount chain, reported an overall increase of 15.1 percent.
Analysts said Dayton Hudson probably had a more profitable season than many other retailers who relied heavily on markdowns to attract customers. In general, they said, price cutting will probably not hurt earnings too much because of tight inventory systems and other cost controls, as well as fairly low inflation.
 
Apparel Sales
Stores catering to clothing shoppers fared better than mass merchandisers, much of whose business is devoted to expensive durable goods, like stereos, televisions or home appliances.
The Limited Inc., the specialty apparel retailer based in Columbus, Ohio, reported a fairly robust 11 percent gain in December sales. But not counting stores opened in the past year, the Limited's sales rose a more moderate 5 percent.
Another apparel chain, the Gap Inc., also turned in an above-average performance. The San Bruno, Calif., company's total sales rose 22 percent, while its same-store sales went up 14 percent.
Following is a list of the domestic sales reported yesterday by large general retailers for the five weeks ended Dec. 30, compared with the similar period in 1988:
 
Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc.: Sales rose 3.5 percent, to $531.4 million.
Dayton Hudson Corp.: Sales rose 15.1 percent, to $2.41 billion.
K Mart Corp.: Sales rose 11.8 percent, to $5.12 billion, for the five weeks ended Dec. 27.
Limited Inc.: Sales rose 11 percent, to $815.9 million.
May Department Stores Co.: Sales rose 8.7 percent, to $1.80 billion.
Melville Corp.: Sales rose 7.8 percent, to $1.27 billion.
Montgomery Ward & Co.: Sales rose 3.3 percent, to $855 million.
J. C. Penney Co.: Sales rose 9.7 percent, to $2.72 billion.
Sears, Roebuck & Co.: Sales rose 3.6 percent, to $4.696 billion.
TJX Cos.: Sales rose 7.5 percent, to $305.1 million.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.: Sales rose 22 percent, to $3.63 billion, for the month.
Woolworth Corp.: Sales rose 11.2 percent, to $879 million.Penney, J. C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (86%); FL (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (86%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (86%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (84%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (71%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (71%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (71%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (86%); FOOT LOCKER INC (84%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (83%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (71%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (68%); MORGAN STANLEY (68%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; DISCOUNT SELLING; HOLIDAY TRADE; CHRISTMAS; ADVERTISING RETAILERS (93%); CHRISTMAS (92%); RETAIL SALES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (75%); SALES & SELLING (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 



115 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Dow Drops 13.65 Points, To 2,796.08

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Stock prices fell broadly yesterday, depressed by caution before the Government's report today of employment data for December. The Dow Jones industrial average fell by 13.65 points to close at 2,796.08, just below the important 2,800 technical level.
The average had pierced that level decisively on Monday with a 56.95-point surge to a record close of 2,810.15. Traders said yesterday that the dollar's tumble on foreign-exchange markets and several rounds of program selling contributed to the market's malaise. 
Volume on the Big Board contracted to 177 million shares, from 192.3 million shares on Wednesday.
 
Seesaw Activity
A spurt of program selling hit the market about noon, pushing down the Dow by nearly 20 points before it began to bounce back about a half-hour later. Another round of early afternoon selling sent the Dow about 37 points lower before buying programs brought the indicator back over the last two hours of trading.
Declines on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered advances by about 3 to 2, with 924 issues falling in price and 645 rising.
In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks fell by 3.09 points, to 355.67, while the New York Stock Exchange's composite index moved down by 1.51 points, to 196.29.
In the currency markets, the dollar plunged by almost two yen against the Japanese currency and by four and a half pfennigs against the West German mark.
The dollar's debacle proved a boon to gold stocks, which rebounded after faltering on Wednesday, when gold fell below the $400-an-ounce level.
 
ASA Gains $1.625
ASA Ltd. rose 1 5/8, to 56; Hecla Mining 1/4, to 14 1/4; Homestake Mining 1/2, to 19 3/8; Placer Dome 3/8, to 18 5/8; Echo Bay Mines 1/2, to 18 3/4, and Giant Yellow Knife Mines 3/8, to 9 7/8.
The Labor Department data for December, eagerly awaited all week, have kept many investors on the sidelines. Most economists expect the non-farm payroll employment figure to increase by 150,000 to 220,000 jobs.
The active blue-chip issues included Philip Morris, off 1 1/2, to 41 7/8; American Telephone and Telegraph, down 3/4, to 45 3/8; Chrysler, off 1/8, to 19 5/8; Union Carbide, down 1/2, to 49, and General Electric, off 3/8, 66 1/4.
Moderate strength in technology and metals issues helped ameliorate the stock market's drop. In the high-tech group, I.B.M. rose 1 1/8, to 100; Digital 7/8, to 86 3/4; Motorola 1/4, to 62 3/4, and Compaq Computer 1 3/8, to 86 1/8. But Hewlett-Packard slipped 1/2, to 48.
In the metals sector, USX rose 7/8, to 36 5/8; Alcoa 1/8, to 76 7/8; Bethlehem Steel 1/8, to 18 1/2; Inland Steel 1/4, to 36, and Allegheny Ludlum 1/2, to 41.
 
Teledyne Up on Rumors
Among other individual issues, Teledyne rose 7 7/8, to 360 1/8, on rumors that the company, based in Los Angeles, had received a favorable tax ruling on a proposed spinoff of an insurance unit, the traders said.
Helen of Troy, a hair-care maker with headquarters in El Paso, dropped 2 5/8, to 17 7/8, after reporting lower-than-expected earnings for its third quarter.
Hanson P.L.C. rose 1/4, to 19 1/4, on a consolidated volume of 29.1 million shares, 20 million of which were on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. Today is the record date for the London-based company's dividend of 62 cents per American depository receipt, to be paid on Feb. 9.
On the American Stock Exchange, the market-value index slipped by 0.26, to 382.16, while in over-the-counter trading, the Nasdaq composite index fell by 1.51 points, to 459.39.
In over-the-counter trading, MCI dropped 1 3/4, to 41 3/8. The Washington-based company said it had signed an agreement with Telefonos de Mexico S.A., or Telemex, to provide direct voice and other telecommunications services between the United States and Mexico.A.T.& T.

GRAPHIC: Favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ASA (NYSE) (65%); T (NYSE) (58%); KGC (NYSE) (54%); K (TSX) (54%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); MSI (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (54%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (54%); SIC1499 MISC. NONMETALLIC MINERALS EX. FUELS (54%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

COMPANY: ASA GOLD & PRECIOUS METALS LTD (65%); AT&T INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); KINROSS GOLD CORP (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GOLD MINING (86%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H ASA GAINS (62%); 



116 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Security Prices Mixed

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities ended narrowly mixed in fairly light trading yesterday, as market participants largely shrugged off developments in the foreign exchange, energy and equity markets.
The crosscurrents that buffeted traders included a sharp drop in the dollar and more modest declines in stock and oil prices. In addition, traders received a report on initial unemployment claims, which rose by 77,000 in the week ended Dec. 23, and 10-day automobile sales data for late December that were a little stronger than anticipated.
''The Street is a little confused,'' one government bond trader said. ''It doesn't know whether to watch the dollar, oil or stocks. But the bottom line is that everybody is waiting for the employment number on Friday.'' 
Most analysts are expecting the employment report to show that non-farm payroll employment rose by about 220,000 in December, a figure that includes 60,000 Boeing Company employees returning after the aircraft company's long strike.
Yesterday's big drop in the dollar, caused in large part by concerted intervention by major central banks, was mostly ignored in the credit markets. But analysts said it could well have longer-term implications for the bond market, particularly by reducing the possibility that the Federal Reserve will move soon to push down interest rates.
 
Effects of Dollar Weakness
''Though the chances of near-term easing by the Federal Reserve were remote at best, the weakness of the dollar should be the nail in the coffin of a January easing,'' analysts at MMS International, an economic information and forecasting company, noted in their daily market commentary.
Charles Lieberman, a managing director at the Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corporation, said, ''At some point the bond market will start to care about the dollar. But right now it is too soon for global investors to react to changing conditions.''
Mr. Lieberman said the dollar selling by central banks was ''a very clear message'' that monetary authorities do not want the dollar to rally further. But he suggested the bond market may not become attuned to the dollar's movements for several more weeks.
''The Treasury's refunding auctions in February will be an interesting test,'' he said. ''At that point we will see if the Japanese step up to buy the 30 to 40 percent of the issues that they typically purchase.''
Despite the potential long-term implications, market participants left Treasury prices pretty much as they found them at the start of the session.
By late in the day, the 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 101 2/32, down 1/32, to yield 8.03 percent.
Among note issues, the seven-year notes to be auctioned next Wednesday were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 7.98 percent, unchanged from Wednesday. And the 7 3/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 99 11/32, up 1/32, to yield 7.89 percent.
 
Drop in Treasury Bill Rates
Treasury bill rates fell. In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.55 percent, down five basis points, or hundredths of a point. Six-month bill rates fell six basis points, to a late rate of 7.45 percent. And one-year bills were offered at 7.28 percent, down two basis points.
Elsewhere, two investor groups placed bids on a total of $394 million worth of State of California veterans bonds.
A group led by the investment banking subsidiary of BankAmerica won the largest part of the issue, $343 million worth of bonds that are subject to alternative minimum tax provisions.
This part of the issue consists of serials and term bonds. The serial bonds carry coupons from 6 percent in 1994 to 7.20 percent in 2006. A term bond that matures in 2010 carries a coupon of 7.30 percent. Another term bond, which matures in 2019, carries a coupon of 7 3/8 percent.
An investor group led by Shearson Lehman Hutton won the $51 million tax-exempt portion of the issue. Coupons on the serial bonds sold in this portion range from 5.80 percent on bonds maturing in 1994 to 6.80 percent on bonds maturing in 2007.
Both portions of the issue are rated AAA by Moody's Investors Services and the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Activity in the secondary markets for corporate and tax-exempt municipal bonds was light yesterday, dealers said.
Corporate dealers said that prices of most investment-grade issues were unchanged on the day. Most municipal bond prices, meanwhile, dipped by about an eighth of a point.
In other developments, the Federal Reserve Board reported yesterday that all three measures of the nation's money supply rose during the week ended Dec. 25.
The money supply report had no effect on prices in the credit markets, though the figures were the latest in a string of strong increases.
''At this point I am not going to get concerned,'' said Wayne Smith, an economist at Ried Thunberg & Company, an investment advisory firm in Westport, Conn. ''But if we don't get a reversal in the next couple of weeks, particularly in M-2 growth, that could be a source of concern.'' American Expressd (Shearson Lehman)

GRAPHIC: Graph of tax-exempt yields from Sept. '89-Jan. '90 (source: The Bond Buyer) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (83%); BAB (BRU) (83%); BA (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); MONEY SUPPLY (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



117 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Sharply lower As Bundesbank Intervenes

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The dollar dropped precipitously yesterday as a result of unexpected intervention in the foreign exchange market by the West German central bank.
The Bundesbank's dollar selling in Europe raised fears that there might be a surprising new effort by the United States and its allies to drive the dollar lower. Traders said this fear sent the dollar down by more than 4 pfennigs against the West German mark and by almost 2 yen. The dollar also fell sharply against other major currencies except the Canadian dollar. 
Several traders said, however, that they did not think the Bundesbank move signaled a new policy for the Group of Seven, which consists of the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada. But they said the possibility spooked the market. These traders contend that the Bundesbank was just trying to slow the rapid rise of the dollar on the first two trading days of the year, which pushed the dollar as high as 1.7350 marks from 1.6910.
The fear of a new policy was reinforced when the Swiss central bank also sold dollars. And in New York, when there were rumors that the Federal Reserve was checking foreign exchange rates - a step that often precedes intervention - the dollar fell even further.
 
'A Very Sensitive Market'
''It is a very sensitive market that can be easily spooked,'' said Richard E. Witten, vice president for foreign exchange at Goldman, Sachs & Company. He does not believe the Bundesbank's move signals a new dollar policy, he said, but added, ''The thought has to go through your mind; you have to give it some credence.''
Nicholas Sargen, director of international bond market research at Salomon Brothers, agreed. ''These guys are just saying, 'Let's not get crazy here and send the dollar back to 1.75 marks,' '' he said. He added that the Bundesbank did not want the mark to weaken against the dollar because it would increase inflationary pressures, by making imports more expensive, in an economy that Germans already see as threatened with overheating.
But these and other traders acknowledged that they would not have a clear indication of the Group of Seven's motives until they saw what the Bundesbank and other central banks would do if the dollar began to rise again.
In late New York trading, the dollar was at 1.6785 marks, down 4.39 pfennigs from 1.7224 on Wednesday and 5.65 pfennigs from 1.7350, the high in Japan and Europe for the day. Against the yen, the dollar was down 1.87 yen, to 143.38, from 145.25 on Wednesday.
Traders and economists believe that the Group of Seven, in an effort to maintain stability in the foreign exchange markets, has set a range for the dollar of 1.70 to 1.90 marks and 120 to 140 yen. Yet the Bundesbank moved to drive the dollar lower when it was at 1.7320 marks, near the bottom of the range. Because it is now below the range against the mark some speculated that a new range, possibly of 1.60 to 1.80, had been set. But some traders said it was too early for such a conclusion.
Before the Bundesbank surprise, the Bank of Japan tried to push the dollar lower against the yen with dollar selling in Tokyo totaling about $750 million, traders said. The Bank of England then sold dollars for yen in London at the request of the Bank of Japan, traders said. The dollar did not fall in Tokyo, but it did when trading in Europe opened.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); GROUP OF SEVEN (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK (W GER)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); US DOLLAR (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GERMAN MARK (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); BONDS (72%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



118 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Creation of Jobs Is Only Sluggish In Latest Report

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5

 BODY:
New jobs were created at a markedly slower rate in December, but the nation's unemployment rate remained unchanged at 5.3 percent, completing a year of exceptional stability, the Labor Department reported today.
The department's survey of business payrolls showed a weak increase in the number of jobs, by 142,000, and the number of factory jobs declined for the ninth straight month. But the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, Janet L. Norwood, noted that the overall economy continued to expand, although at a very slow pace. ''There is still growth going on,'' Dr. Norwood told reporters. ''We're certainly not anywhere near a downturn.'' 
Other analysts have been more pessimistic, and today's figures included only scattered signs of encouragement. ''We're going into 1990 with very little momentum,'' observed Robert H. Chandross, chief economist for Lloyds Bank North America, who said the gross national product probably posted a small decline in the fourth quarter of 1989.
 
Poorest Quarter Since '86
The number of jobs rose by an average of only 145,000 a month in the fourth quarter of 1989, the poorest quarter since 1986. In contrast, the average monthly rise in the first quarter of 1989 was 265,000.
In all, 119,588,000 Americans held civilian or military jobs last month and 6,658,000 were unemployed, for an unemployment rate of 5.3 percent. The jobless rate excluding military personnel was also 5.3 percent, unchanged from the revised level for November.
Most analysts maintained that while the new labor-market data would increase pressure on the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates another notch, this probably would not occur for at least a week. Next Friday, the Government is to report on producer prices and retail sales for December.
The central bank is eager to avoid a surge of inflation and could not have taken any comfort from data in today's employment report showing that average hourly earnings of private production workers climbed six-tenths of 1 percent last month after being essentially unchanged in November.
Another factor that was likely to prevent the Federal Reserve from acting immediately to reduce interest rates was a separate report released today on factory orders. After two straight declines, those orders climbed a hefty 2.4 percent in November to the second-highest level of the year.
 
Drop in Jersey Unemployment
Among the 11 biggest states, New Jersey showed a sizable 1.5-point decline in its jobless rate last month, down to 3.6 percent from 5.1 percent. But analysts cautioned that while this improvement was statistically significant, it might be overstated. State samples are far smaller than national ones, and therefore less reliable.
The New York increase of four-tenths of a point, to 5.6 percent, and Texas's decline of six-tenths of a point, to 6.6 percent, were considered marginally significant.
Nationally, the increase of 142,000 jobs last month was not only one of the smallest of the year, but took into account 55,000 Nynex workers who returned from a strike. In all, jobs in the service sector climbed by 206,000, but this rise was partly offset by a decline of 64,000 goods-producing jobs. The drop in production jobs was considerably worse than in November, which after a small revision now shows a gain of 4,000 jobs instead of a 3,000 decline.
Health service jobs, which continued to rise sharply last month, grew by 525,000 jobs for the year. Employment in wholesale trade and in finance, insurance and real estate also rose in December. Jobs in retailing showed little change as department stores did less hiring than usual, and automotive-related job losses offset gains in food stores, restaurants and bars.
About two-thirds of the decline in goods-producing jobs was in construction, which suffered from especially harsh winter weather. Factory jobs fell by 25,000, bringing the total decline since March to 195,000. Nearly 15,000 of the December decline was in computers and other electrical equipment.
''The manufacturing component continues its steady downward slide,'' said Michael W. Keran, chief economist at the Prudential Insurance Company. But over all, Mr. Keran said, the economy did not seem to be stumbling as fast as he had expected and he estimated today that the chance of a recession in the near term had been cut to 40 percent, from about 50 percent. #48,000 New Jobs As measured by the department's survey of households, the economy generated a very modest 48,000 new jobs last month. Nonetheless, this was nearly enough to match a similarly modest 54,000 increase in the size of the labor force. The ranks of the unemployed thus edged up 6,000, to 6,658,000.
The unemployment rate was 5.3 percent for both January and December of last year, and moved outside the range of 5.1 percent to 5.3 percent only in March, when it touched 5 percent, according to a table of revised figures published today. The rates for March, August and September were one-tenth of a point higher than initially reported, while January's was one-tenth lower.

GRAPHIC: Graph of unemployment rates from Dec. 1988 to Dec. 1989. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg1); Chart of the Labor force from Sept. 1989 to Dec. 1989; Chart of Civilian unemployment figures in selected states. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LYG (NYSE) (56%); LLOY (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); ARMED FORCES (65%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 



119 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY, JANUARY 6, 1990

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
 There will not be any Greenwich mansions at Levittown prices in the Government's sale of 30,000 properties taken over from failed savings institutions. But a look at some of the 20 residential properties offered in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut showed housing for every pocketbook and life style and, maybe, a chance to save a few thousand dollars. [33.] Calls about the properties are being handled by a hastily assembled telephone marketing service set up by a unit of American Airlines in Fort Worth. [35.] Job growth slowed markedly in December, but the unemployment rate, completing a year of exceptional stability, remained unchanged at 5.3 percent, the Labor Department reported. The results were a bit worse than expected, as payroll jobs grew just 142,000 with 55,000 of these reflecting the end of the Nynex strike. [Page 1.] Airlines and trucking companies are raising prices in a way not seen for a decade, as a result of the recent surge in petroleum prices. Diesel fuel began December around $1.15 a gallon and jumped to $1.43. [33.] A collapse of Government regulation of the tanker industry was tied to the Alaskan oil spill by an expert panel. [26.] Orders for manufactured goods rose 2.4 percent in November, reaching their second-highest level ever, the Commerce Department said, further pointing to continuing economic expansion. [34.] 
 
 
 
Companies
 Questioning Charles H. Keating Jr., Federal District Judge Stanley Sporkin voiced deep concerns about accounting methods used by the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association. [33.]
 Nippon Life Insurance will invest $200 million in American Express. The large Japanese insurer already has a sizable stake in Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., its brokerage affiliate. [33.]
 Federated Department Stores eliminated 52 positions in its Cincinnati headquarters - 14 percent of its corporate staff. [35.]
 Alan Bond's flagship company withstood an attempt to liquidate the Australian's brewing and media holdings, but now faces demands from United States creditors to repay $510 million. [35.]
 Hallmark Cards will acquire Dakin, a leading marketer of plush stuffed toys, for an undisclosed amount. [35.]
 
 
 
Markets
 Most Treasury securities prices declined as the market shrugged off the smaller-than-expected rise in employment and the rise in factory orders that the Government reported. [34.]
 Stocks prices retreated broadly, as the Dow Jones industrial average fell 22.83 points, to 2,773.25, losing much of Tuesday's 56.95-point rise. Analysts attributed the decline to program selling and to disappointment over the economic reports. [34.] The dollar staged a turnaround, closing higher in domestic trading against the yen and the mark. Meanwhile, gold prices soared well above $400 an ounce. [42.] Heating oil futures prices plunged more than 5 cents a gallon as temperatures warmed. [42.]
 
International
 A severe economic program is needed to squeeze inflation out and revamp and revive Poland's crumbling economic system, Finance Minister Leszek Balcerowicz insisted. [6.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 Financial advisers are concerned about insurers' investments in ''junk bonds'' and ''junk mortgages.'' Their fears were aroused after the California Department of Insurance declared Pacific Standard Life Insurance insolvent. Your Money. [34.] From a spaghetti sipper to a jump rope, patents were granted for simple devices offering a creative, often whimsical twist to things most people assume cannot be improved. Patents. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: M (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (68%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); MACY'S INC (56%); NIPPON LIFE INSURANCE FOUNDATION (54%); NIPPON LIFE INSURANCE CO (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); HALLMARK CARDS INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PRICE INCREASES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); TELEMARKETING (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); BONDS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); FUTURES (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); BULK SHIPPING (73%); RETAILERS (73%); OIL SPILLS (72%); HEATING OIL (72%); INSURANCE (71%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); GOLD MARKETS (68%); DIESEL FUEL (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (64%); TOYS & GAMES (61%); TRUCKING (53%); 

PERSON: CHARLES H KEATING JR (54%); 



120 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Why Milk Prices Are Soaring

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Elsie the Cow, meet Adam Smith.
Behind the surge in milk prices, both at the farm gate and on many grocery shelves across the nation, lies a simple but largely overlooked fact: The United States dairy market today is far more susceptible to free-market forces than it was a few years ago.
Once plagued by a chronic glut that produced huge Government stockpiles of milk, butter and cheese, the market now finds itself facing shortages, with its stockpiles largely depleted. A Federal initiative to ease regulations, reduce dairy herds and lower the prices guaranteed to farmers - in tandem with changing consumer tastes here and abroad - is reshaping the dairy industry.
These changes mean that milk prices, once fairly predictable, are likely to become far more volatile in the years ahead. That, in turn, will mean less certainty for consumers and farmers and considerably more risk for everyone else along the milk delivery route: The big dairy processors like Borden's and Dean Foods, the highly competitive food chains like Giant and Safeway, and the Wall Street investors who finance them. 
''It's a new ball game,'' said Ed Coughlin of the National Milk Producers Federation in Washington. ''Milk producers are learning their way in a supply-demand driven market. We have never done that before.''
 
A Rising Benchmark
 To be sure, there is still a panoply of state and local rules that govern the retail milk industry, causing local prices to vary considerably. And the Federal Government, while playing a smaller role than before the Reagan Administration's deregulatory drive, still puts a floor under the prices that producers receive and restricts imports of some dairy products. These will continue to influence the price swings for some time.
But the evidence of increased price volatility is clear. The benchmark price of raw milk has soared more than 34 percent in the last nine months, to a record $14.90 a hundredweight for December, according to figures released this week by the Department of Agriculture. The price, based on the key Minnesota and Wisconsin markets, is the benchmark gauge for 100 pounds of fluid milk, or roughly 11.6 gallons.
 
A Soggy Summer
 ''This is the largest single seasonal price increase in raw milk in the history of the milk program,'' said William Tinklepaugh, vice president of the Milk Industry Foundation in Washington. The previous record, however, was barely a year old: prices climbed about 18 percent in 1988, from $10.43 in March to $12.22 in December. At the store, many consumers did not see prices climb sharply until this fall because many supermarkets were not able to pass the full increase on to shoppers for fear of losing business to rival stores.
No one predicted that 1989 milk prices would climb so far so fast. In fact, the changes in the diary market are so profound that Mr. Tinklepaugh, one of the most widely cited analysts of milk-price trends, says he has simply given up forecasting prices for this year. ''I've been so far off on price forecasts that I've stopped doing it,'' he said. ''I thought it would peak at no more than $14 a hundredweight, and it's way past that now.''
The Wall Street analysts who monitor the giant dairy companies like Borden Inc. and Dean Foods are more fearless in their predictions, but their track record is no better. Nevertheless, many estimates of 1990 earnings are based on the assumption that today's sky-high prices, which raise the dairy industry's raw material costs and squeeze profit margins, will disappear with the spring thaw.
Of course, weather is to blame for some of the recent climb in milk prices. Two years of heat and drought in the Southeast and Midwest reduced pasturage and put dairy cows off their feed; a soggy summer had similar effects in the Northeast. Rain, in sufficient but not excessive amounts, will no doubt ease some shortages in the spring and summer, stabilizing prices in some regions and pulling them down in others.
But beyond the seasonal forces that have always affected milk prices, there are new structural factors at work in the market today, the long-term effects of which are not entirely understood, even by the industry.
 
Fewer Milking Barns
 One important structural change is the reduction in the number of dairy farmers, thanks to a Government herd buyout program begun in April 1986. The program pared roughly 1.5 million cows from the nation's milking barns, roughly 13 percent of the total, in less than two years. Moreover, the program's rules require the farmers who sold out, some of whom might be tempted to return to meet current demand, to remain out of the business for five years.
Some Western farmers can add to their stock quickly and with little capital investment, dairy economists said. But other sections of the country, where farms are smaller or where weather is more inclement, are not so adaptable.
''In the Northeast, production will not be able to pick up promptly,'' said John Malcolm, a dairy farmer in Pawlet, Vt. ''It takes a lot of skill to keep 100 head of cattle healthy, and there just isn't the skilled labor available.''
A growing population had already made milk supplies tight in the Southeast, said Daniel Shaw of the Dairymen Inc., a cooperative in Louisville, Ky., and the herd buyout program has exacerbated the shortages there.
 
Competition From Cheese
 In addition to these changes in supply, consumer preferences are changing in dramatic, unpredictable ways. Milk drinkers are increasingly choosing skim milk over whole milk - adding to Government stockpiles of surplus butter. But cheese, which is high in fat, has become increasingly popular. Prices are climbing, and cheese processors are competing fiercely with milk bottlers for the farmers' scarce supply.
Meanwhile, the once-mountainous Government inventories of cheese and, more important, of nonfat dry milk have disappeared, thanks to shrinking supply and rising prices. ''I cannot tell you what a sharp contrast that is with just a few years ago,'' said Andrew Novakovic, an associate professor of agricultural economics at Cornell University.
''As recently as 1983, three out of four pounds of nonfat dry milk in this country were sold to the Government,'' he said. ''The commercial nonfat dry milk market was a basket case. But since July 1988, there have been zero sales to the Government under the price-support program.''
The world market for powdered milk - the most transportable form of the product - has undergone dramatic changes as well.
 
Common Market Quotas
 Traditionally, Europe's dairy surpluses were sold into the world market in the form of powdered milk at subsidized prices that United States farmers had no incentive to beat, since the price offered to them by their own Government was higher. ''Before 1989, you virtually could not give the stuff away,'' said Allen Rosenfeld, director of agricultral policy for Public Voice for Food and Health Policy, a Washington consumer organization.
But as new production quotas in the European Community began to have an effect, the Europeans virtually withdrew from the nonfat dry milk market. The result was just as Adam Smith would have predicted: with supply reduced, the world price for nonfat dry milk rose. Suddenly, United States powdered milk looked like a good deal.
With no clue that a serious shortage was brewing, the United States entered the world dry milk market in 1989 for the first time. And, in the sort of chain reaction that is likely to become routine in the future, surplus milk usually available to ease winter shortages elsewhere in the nation was not available. That helped push fluid prices up, as one region competed with another for scarce supplies.
At the supermarket level, milk prices were slow to rise but are beginning to catch up, said Mr. Rosenfeld at Public Voice. Whether they will be equally slow to fall in the spring, when farm prices are expected to soften, is ''something we will be watching closely,'' he added.
 
Nothing but Headaches
 In towns without competing supermarkets, prices may stay higher longer, several economists noted. But given the drag in passing producer prices along to consumers in the politically sensitive milk market, increasingly volatile milk prices will be nothing but headaches both for food-store executives and analysts.
For dairy industry executives, the recent price increases pose new worries. Borden's, the leading producer of fluid milk in the country, announced a plan earlier this fall to sell many of its less-profitable dairies. Increased uncertainty about milk price patterns in the future may worry potential buyers and reduce the amount Borden's can clear from the sale.
While Dean Foods, the second big domestic player in fluid milk, has diversified into a variety of snack foods and condiments, it still depends heavily on its dairy operations, where profit margins in its current fiscal year have fallen to an estimated 4.5 percent of sales from 6.8 percent in the 1986 fiscal year.
Although the existing milk price-support program is still a factor in the market, prices will have to fall substantially before today's lower subsidy levels kick in, said Mr. Novakovic at Cornell. In the meantime, the effect of all these shifts in production and consumption has been to make the United States industry, already one of the world's lowest-cost producers, far more sensitive to international forces.
''International marketing has been the buzzword for so many years, but the dairy industry has not been a part of that market,'' he said. ''They've got a lot of learning to do.''

GRAPHIC: Graph of government stocks of cheese and non-fat dry milk and of butter, 1986-1989; Minnesota-Wisconsin manufacturing milk prices, 1987-1989* (*December figure is estimate); average U.S. city price for half-gallon whole, fortified milk, 1987-1989* (*December figure not available) (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Dairy Market News, Milk Industry Foundation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DF (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311512 CREAMERY BUTTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: DEAN FOODS CO (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); MILK INDUSTRY FOUNDATION (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); MILK INDUSTRY FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL MILK PRODUCERS FEDERATION (55%); NATIONAL MILK PRODUCERS FEDERATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS; SALES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; MILK; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PRICES; STOCKPILING DAIRY INDUSTRY (95%); MILK (94%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); FLUID MILK MFG (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); CHEESE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); BUTTER MFG (76%); AGRICULTURE (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); 

PERSON: ;HENRIQUES, DIANA B ADAM SMITH (74%); 



121 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Push Transportation Charges Up

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
The recent explosion in petroleum prices, especially diesel fuel, is raising transportation prices in a way not seen for a decade, economists and industry executives say. Airlines and trucking companies are imposing fuel surcharges or indexing their rates to fuel costs.
The increases, brought on by unusual cold in December, will reverse themselves if normal weather holds, experts predict. But the current practice of linking airplane ticket prices and motor freight rates to fluctuating oil prices may foreshadow the situation in the mid-1990's, when oil prices are widely expected to be higher. 
''This was a dress rehearsal, but I don't think it's the main event,'' said Charles T. Maxwell, vice chairman of C. J. Lawrence, Morgan Greenfell Inc. In the short term, he said, oil prices will fall because the unusually high demand will end, ''and a slow economy will reassert itself next spring.''
The record cold in December raised demand for heating oil about 35 percent above normal, pushing prices from 89 cents at the beginning of the heating season to nearly $1.40 now. Diesel fuel, which is the same substance as heating oil, began December at about $1.15 a gallon and jumped to about $1.43. So steep and unusual was the rise that Platt's Week, an industry newsletter, labeled an article on the subject ''Fuel oil meets Rip van Winkle.''
As a result of the increases, Continental Airlines said it would raise domestic fares by 4 percent on Jan. 10 to cover fuel costs that have risen by 46.5 cents a gallon in the last month. Pan American World Airways and Delta Air Lines Inc. also announced 4 percent fare increases on domestic fares. Trans World Airlines said it would add a surcharge of $5 on flights under 500 miles and $10 on longer flights, but it also said it would match fare cuts by Eastern Airlines.
Many trucking companies also began indexing freight rates to fuel costs. Donald A. Lucchesi, group vice president of planning and marketing, for Landstar System Inc., which describes itself as the nation's largest group of full-truckload companies -those that accept only full loads for shipment - said he had not seen indexing of that kind since the first oil shock, nearly 20 years ago.
Landstar, based in Stamford, Conn., which runs 7,000 trucks and 10,000 trailers, said on Thursday that it would raise its rates by 5 to 8 percent to recover the increased costs. It said it would peg its rates to the Interstate Commerce Commission's weekly survey of diesel fuel prices. Frozen Food Express Industries of Dallas, said it would adjust prices each week, beginning with increases of 4 to 5 percent.
 
Highly Competitive Business
 The full-truckload business is highly competitive, and analysts believe that rates will fall as soon as fuel prices do. The portion of the trucking business that accepts partial loads for shipment is less competitive, however, and some of its increases may linger.
''It's a spike,'' said Dr. Marion B. Stewart, an energy consultant at National Economic Research Associates of White Plains. Natural gas prices, driven higher by the same weather, have already begun to decline, he said, ''and heating oil prices will surely do the same thing. We'll be likely to see heating oil prices go down as quickly as they came up.'' Because the trucking industry is competitive, he said, trucking rates would then decline.
Philip K. Verleger Jr. of Charles River Associates, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., said, ''It won't have a long-term effect, but we'll see a very sharp increase in the Consumer Price Index in February.'' The increase due to fuel oil could be 1 percent, he said, and will show up when January's numbers are reported.
''But assuming that there is no other major cold weather, the effect will start wearing off,'' he said. ''When the weather is warmer than average, people start riding their bicycles and say, 'We don't need extra heating oil.' ''
 
Higher Oil Prices Seen
 But many economists who specialize in energy believe that oil prices will drift higher in the 1990's, as world demand increases, eroding the surplus production capacity that has held prices down since the mid-1980's. The trend is expected to become more pronouced because of an expected 5 percent decline in American oil production, as well as declines in Britain and the Soviet Union. Analysts say the market would tighten more quickly with an economic revival in Eastern Europe, or continued strong growth in the Pacific Rim.
And long-term increases in oil prices will be felt throughout the economy on a more permanent basis, as was the oil price collapse of 1986, experts say.
''All during the 80's, one of the important elements of economic growth was the OPEC tax cut,'' said Daniel Yergin, president of Cambridge Energy Research Associates of Cambridge, Mass. First the cost of oil was eroded by inflation, and then the dollar price fell in 1986, he said, sustaining economic growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (84%); LSTR (NASDAQ) (63%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); FFEX (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (63%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (63%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (84%); LANDSTAR SYSTEM INC (63%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); FROZEN FOOD EXPRESS INDUSTRIES INC (58%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (53%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; WEATHER; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; TRANSPORTATION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES; DIESEL POWER OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRUCKING (90%); DIESEL FUEL (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (89%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); AIR FARES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); TICKET SALES (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (61%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L



122 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: For New York Area, 20 Lessons in Real Estate

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
There will not be any Greenwich mansions at Levittown prices in the Government's sale of 30,000 properties taken over from failed savings institutions. But a look yesterday at some of the 20 residential properties offered in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut showed housing for every pocketbook and life style and, maybe, a chance to save a few thousand dollars.
Among the offerings are: seven rent-controlled or rent-stabilized apartments, with tenants, in a New York City cooperative building on West 75th Street, priced as a group at $425,000 to $450,000; four fire-damaged apartments in Sicklerville, N.J., at $45,000 to $50,000 each, and an unfinished luxury home on two wooded acres in Redding, Conn., at $519,000.
But bargains, like beauty, are in the eye of the beholder, and in a weak market some think prices will get still weaker.
For example, Jacquelyn Wilcox, who spent the better part of November searching for a one-bedroom cooperative apartment in Manhattan, decided to wait. ''The first thing everybody would say after telling you the price was, 'but that's negotiable,' '' she recalled. 
While the New York region's economy has not suffered the hardships of, for example, Texas, where the Government is offering 15,000 properties for sale, real estate prices have been weakening for many months in the metropolitan area, encouraging prospective buyers to delay.
Now some buyers hope that the Government-sponsored sale will depress the market further. With only 20 properties involved, that would not seem likely for this region, but the rise of mortgage delinquencies makes it probable that there will be more failures among savings institutions and more properties for sale by the Government.
The Resolution Trust Corporation, the Government agency in charge of selling the properties, plans to set prices equal to at least 95 percent of appraised value. Of course, appraised values can fall rapidly, especially when sales are slow. The Government is using regular real estate brokers for many of the residential sales, and the agency is relying on appraisals and estimates of market values in quoting prices.
The largest offering in the New York area is the group of seven tenant-occupied apartments at 240 West 75th Street in Manhattan, according to a four-volume listing published by Resolution Trust.
While the handsome building with a limestone facade is well maintained, any potential buyer of the apartments might want to visit Ms. Stella, the fortune teller who operates on the same block. She, or perhaps an actuary, could offer guidance about how long it might be before the tenants, ranging in age from their 50's to their 80's, will vacate the units, allowing the buyer to occupy an empty apartment or sell it at a profit.
The apartments were taken over by the Metropolitan Federal Savings and Loan Association of Denville, N.J., which foreclosed on loans it made to the sponsors of the cooperative, a defunct partnership known as 240 Venture Associates.
 
Changing Tax Laws
 ''Investments in occupied apartments were all the rage before the Tax Reform Act of 1986, but the change in tax laws really killed the investors,'' said John P. Almeida, managing agent for the Resolution Trust Corporation now working at Metropolitan.
At one time, investors were buying occupied apartments for half their market value. On West 75th, the market price of one-bedroom apartments went as high as $180,000, while two-bedroom units were nearly $300,000. Prices have fallen almost 20 percent for comparable units in the neighborhood since their peak.
Under the old tax law, investors could claim as losses for tax purposes rapid depreciation of the apartments, as well as the difference between the amount they received in rent and the higher amount they paid in maintenance fees to the cooperative. The tax losses could be used to offset ordinary income.
But now such tax losses are largely denied; they are termed passive and can be taken only against passive income by wealthy investors. So, demand for occupied apartments has fallen sharply.
''They are virtually unmarketable, unless you are buying a large number of apartments where you can count on a few of them becoming vacant every year,'' said one real estate agent on the West Side of Manhattan who asked not to be identified.
 
Rents Are Kept Low
 Because New York law does not allow the eviction of a tenant by an owner who wants to sell an apartment, and because rent-control laws have kept many rents low, the buyer of the seven apartments will have to pay more in monthly maintenance fees to the cooperative building than will be received in rents. James M. Levison, president of the cooperative board at 240 West 75th, put the difference at ''a few hundred dollars'' each month for each apartment.
Emil Wiehl, a retired factory manager and a tenant at 240 West 75th for more than 20 years, declined to buy his one-bedroom rent-controlled apartment five years ago, when the asking price was $50,000. ''It was much cheaper to rent,'' he said. ''A year ago I was offered $30,000 to move. But if I sell, where should I go? What could I afford to buy?'' Given this situation, many investors are unwilling to make monthly payments on a property they may not possess for years. As a result, Metropolitan has already re-evaluated the price it is setting on the seven apartments. Mr. Almeida said the $589,995 total listed in documents published earlier this week has been reduced by about 25 percent to $425,000 to $450,000 ''based on new appraisals.''
 
A Tenant's Opinion
 Lee Cohen, a tenant at 240 West 75th for the last 25 years, said that despite the low income Metropolitan receives from the rent-controlled two-bedroom apartment she shares with her husband, Samuel, ''They have been very nice to us, and our apartment is as well maintained as those that are in the cooperative.''
Each property on the Government's list has its own set of circumstances. In Sicklerville, N.J., four condominium apartments are being rebuilt after being heavily damaged by a fire in October 1988.
Robert C. Reich, a loan officer at Liberty Bell Savings, Beaver Falls, Pa., now Reeves Bank, said other units in the same development had sold quickly. ''It's a strong market there, and we expect no problem selling them at $45,000 to $50,000,'' he said.
The properties, in which Liberty has an 11.1 percent share, came to the institution as a result of the 1985 collapse of EPIC Holdings Inc., a mortgage investment company that defaulted on 20,000 properties around the country worth more than $1 billion.
The episode, which caused one of the nation's largest mortgage insurers to go out of business and threatened to disrupt the entire mortgage market, resulted from over-estimations of the market value of properties that were bought by EPIC and then sold to other investors. The main lender on the properties is the Home Federal Savings Bank of Washington, which is handling the sale.
In Connecticut, an unfinished seven-room, three-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath, 3,300-square-foot contemporary-style home on two wooded acres came to be owned by the Columbia Savings Bank of Westport, after the bankruptcy of the builder, the D. L. M. Corporation of Brookfield, Conn. The custom-built home is about 75 percent finished and has been appraised at $500,000 pending its completion. Columbia has set an asking price of $519,000.
Information about all 20 of the properties in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut is available in a listing published earlier this week by the Resolution Trust Corporation, which is to be updated every six months. The complete four-part listing costs $50, though the two volumes of residential properties may be bought for $15 each. Volumes may be ordered by calling 1-800-431-0600.
The Government agency plans to employ many methods of selling the properties, including the use of real estate brokers or auctions conducted by the savings institutions. Sale prices for many properties have not yet been published, and all prices may be changed depending on market conditions.

GRAPHIC: These are two of the properties being sold by the Resolution Trust Corporation in the New York metropolitan region (NYT/Jim Estrin; Stephen Castagneto) (pg 33); Lee Cohen, a tenant in Apartment 7A at 240 West 75th Street, a New York City residential property being offered for sale by the Resolution Trust Corporation. (NYT/Bill Swersey) (pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TRUST CO LTD (90%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (92%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CO; RESOLUTION TRUST CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; APARTMENT HOUSES; COOPERATIVES; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); CITIES (75%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL



123 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER'S WORLD;
Weighing The Differences Among Heaters

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Another fad is taking hold in the business of keeping warm: ceramic electric heaters. Like the portable kerosene burners and quartz electric heaters that preceded them, ceramic heaters have a few advantages over older models. But they are also the subject of advertising and sales promotions that sometimes promise too much.
They come with names like ''Disc Furnace'' and ''The Heat Machine'' and appear in advertisements that tout a high-tech product with such phrases as ''A scientific breakthrough . . . an engineering marvel!'' and ''At last, a safe, economical source of portable heat.'' 
The suggestion, especially appealing during the recent spell of bitter cold, is that the costly high-tech models provide a less expensive source of warmth. And that is the information you are likely to get at your local hardware or discount store.
But the first truth about electric heaters, as even the manufacturers of ceramic models acknowledge, is that the standard 1,500-watt model provides 5,200 British thermal units an hour. Translation: for a given quantity of electricity, all electric heaters deliver the same amount of heat, whether they use ceramic components or plain old metal coils.
The ceramic models cost much more: the Pelonis Disc Furnance, the first and best-selling ceramic, retails for about $125, about triple the cost of a metal-coil model. The difference in price is enough to run a 1,500-watt heater at full blast for eight hours a day for nearly three months, based on the national average cost for electricity (about 8 cents a kilowatt-hour).
A corollary is that all standard heaters deliver the same amount of heat regardless of size. Some conventional heaters are quite small, while others are built to resemble steam radiators. If small size is an advantage, the ceramic heaters are among the smallest.
The ceramic heaters also claim a safety advantage, because the hottest part of a ceramic heater is a great deal cooler than the hottest part of a conventional electric heater. Jeffrey Mahlstedt, the marketing director of the Del-Rain Corporation of Niagara Falls, N.Y., which makes the Pelonis, said: ''A conventional resistance heater has temperatures in excess of 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit, but ours is 390 degrees, which is well below the combustion point of paper. Even if the curtains blow into it, they will not ignite. If it is tipped over, it could not ignite the carpet, the floorboards or anything else.''
That is true, but all electric heaters, including the Pelonis, have a switch that automatically cuts off the power if they tip.
Fire experts do not keep statistics that differentiate between types of electric heaters, but as a group they are by far the safest form of heating, apart from central heating. According to the National Fire Protection Association, in 1987, the most recent year for which figures are available, space heaters caused 130,000 house fires, with 680 deaths. But only 3,200 of those fires and 103 deaths were linked to portable electric heaters. Space heaters fueled by natural gas, wood stoves and portable kerosene heaters caused the rest of the fires and deaths.
''As a general rule, portable electric heaters come off much better than other devices, when you compare loss rates to the number of units in use,'' said Dr. John Hall, a statistician at the association.
The makers of ceramic heaters also say that their models have more sophisticated temperature-control mechanisms. But Consumer Reports, on the basis of its own laboratory tests, said last November that as a group the ceramics perform poorly in distributing their heat.
Among electric heaters, the ceramics are gaining ground rapidly. According to HFD, a weekly trade publication that reports on home furnishings, manufacturers shipped at least five million space heaters in 1988. Of those, HFD said, probably more than a million were ceramic heaters, first sold in 1986.
 
Coils, Quartz and Kerosene
 The leading type is the heater with resistance coils. The other major type is the quartz heater, designed to radiate its heat to objects, not air. Kerosene heaters, long popular in Europe, are essentially small furnaces without chimneys. They are popular in garages and other semi-enclosed indoor spaces, but they have fallen out of favor for home use because they pollute the indoor air and are banned in some localities.
While electricity is by far the most popular way to heat an individual room, consumers should be wary of cost claims in national advertisements, which often assume a price of electricity of 7 cents per kilowatt-hour. Costs in New York City are nearly double that, and prices in many other major cities are substantially above 7 cents.
The cost factor aside, electric heaters have important uses. They can warm a room that the furnace does not heat well under any circumstances, or on the chilly days of spring or fall, they can warm a summer house that does not have central heat. But in a year-round house, insulation or weatherstripping is often a better solution than a portable heater.
 

 
CAN A HEATER SAVE MONEY?
 Can homeowners save money by turning down the thermostat that controls the furnace and using a portable electric heater to keep a room warm? The answer is: ''It depends.''
Turning the thermostat to 60 degrees and using an electric heater to raise the temperature in one room to a toasty 70 can save fuel that would otherwise be burned in the furnace. But whether the homeowner comes out ahead depends on the price of electricity and the cost of the fuel the furnace uses. Heat from electricity is often three times as expensive as heat from a furnace running on oil or natural gas.
Another consideration is the size of the house. Using an electric heater in only the master bedroom of a drafty Victorian mansion may make more sense than in a snug four-room Cape Cod with heavy insulation.

GRAPHIC: For a given quantity of electricity, all electric heaters deliver the same amount of heat, whether they use ceramic components or plain old metal coils. But the ceramic models, top and bottom, are more compact than the familiar metal-coil type, center. (NYT/Jim Estrin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); SIC8611 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (50%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION (50%); 

SUBJECT: HEATERS SALES PROMOTIONS (77%); SALES & SELLING (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (68%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (55%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L



124 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Your Money;
Are the Insurers Fiscally Strong?

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
The Pacific Standard Life Insurance Company, a carrier with $7 billion of insurance in force that had invested heavily in ''junk bonds'' and ''junk mortgages,'' was declared insolvent by the California Department of Insurance at the end of November. In the weeks since then, many financial advisers have asked whether the insolvency is an isolated event or whether other insurers are also at risk.
The question is an important one to consumers. Not only do people buy life insurance to protect their families, but in recent years many people have also bought annuities and other insurance products with investment components. 
Furthermore, pension plans invest with insurers. And some 65 percent of the assets in 401(k) retirement savings plans - $150 billion - are in guaranteed investment contracts, or G.I.C.'s, which are fixed-income investments offered by insurance companies.
''However, contrary to popular belief, the only guarantee is the full faith and credit of the insurance company issuing the contract,'' said J. Ben Vernazza, chairman of the investment policy committee of IMS/CPA's & Associates, in Aptos, Calif., a firm that advises other certified public accountants who do fee-only financial planning.
Still, there is no simple answer to the risk question. If there is an expert consensus, it is that consumers should take care in selecting insurance carriers, looking at the company's financial stability, not simply at premium cost of the yield it pays on an annuity, for example.
''I would be very concerned about the insurance companies,'' said Gerald Morlitz, a lawyer and director of Arthur Andersen & Company's personal financial planning group in New York. ''I think it's the savings and loans five years deferred without any bailout. Make sure it's a healthy company or get out.'' Among the companies he views as healthy are Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance, Guardian Life Insurance and New England Life.
''There is definitely a place for insurance,'' Mr. Vernazza said, ''but we tend to use it specifically for what it is - protection against risk, not as an investment vehicle.'' He added that ''problems are just starting to surface with the insurance companies'' and he would avoid certain companies, including some large ones because of their junk bond holdings and shaky real estate. ''Junk bonds were accurately named from the start,'' he said.
Brian Ternoey, an actuary who is head of the investment services practice of Foster Higgins, a benefits consulting firm, is far more sanguine. He sees no real credit risk among insurers and cautions against overreaction.
''Some carriers are heavily invested in junk bonds and junk real estate, but they are not at the breaking point yet,'' he said. ''The heaviest can survive for several years with no real default problems.'' Even Executive Life, a company often cited for its junk bond portfolio, also has a lot of United States Treasuries, he noted.
Terence Lennon, chief examiner for life insurance at the New York Insurance Department, agreed. ''There is no immediate danger with the companies pension plans are likely to deal with,'' he said. But, he added that ''the environment in which life insurance companies operate has changed dramatically in the last 15 years.'' Where the greatest risk in the past was mortality, it is now investment risk, he said.
Insurers invest primarily in corporate and government bonds, commercial and residential mortgages, real estate and common stock. The industry's asset quality is high relative to other financial institutions, Moody's Investment Service says, but over the years some insurers have made more risky investments in junk bonds and mortgages as competition for yields has increased. Indeed, insurance companies own 30 percent of the junk bonds outstanding and pension funds own 15 percent.
It is in assessing the degree of risk that financial professionals differ. A number of factors must be considered, including the diversification of a portfolio, economic and market outlook, a company's underwriting standards and accounting standards used in reporting assets and liabilities.
In the case of Pacific Standard, which is owned by the Southmark Corporation of Dallas, California regulators, using conservative accounting standards, disallowed millions of dollars in assets claimed by the insurer. Most were in stock, mortgages and real estate, not in its junk bonds, although the state wants the company to move into less risky investments. Southmark itself has filed for bankruptcy protection.
The company is continuing to pay death benefits and annuity payments but has imposed a six-month moratorium to prevent policy holders from cashing out their policies.
''Don't panic,'' Mr. Ternoey advised investors in general. Pension plans are administered by employers, he noted, but employees can approach 401(k) plans with something other than benign neglect because most plans offer employees a choice of investments.
Most people should put more of their 401(k) funds in stocks and less in fixed-income investments, both Mr. Ternoey and Mr. Morlitz said, because historically, over the longer term, stocks have outperformed other assets.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SM (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (66%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (52%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%); NORTHEAST USA (53%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC STANDARD LIFE INSURANCE CO (93%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP (66%); MASSACHUSETTS MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (52%); NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (52%); GUARDIAN LIFE INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (52%); NEW YORK INSURANCE DEPARTMENT (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC STANDARD LIFE INSURANCE CO

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; CONSUMER PROTECTION; FINANCES; BANKRUPTCIES INSURANCE (93%); LIFE INSURANCE (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BONDS (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M BRIAN TERNOEY (62%); J BEN VERNAZZA (62%); 



125 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Italy Devalues Lira by 3%

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: ROME, Jan. 5

 BODY:
The Italian lira was devalued by 3 percent against other major European currencies late today, while its trading band within the European Monetary System was narrowed.
A spokesman for the European Commission said the changes had been agreed by the community's finance ministers and central bank chiefs at night. Speculation of a lira devaluation had swirled through the currency markets all day, but the announcement did not take place until a few minutes before midnight.
In New York trading before the announcement was made the lira was quoted at 754.60 to the West German mark, compared with 751.00 Thursday. Since early December the mark has appreciated by about 2 percent against the lira.
The lira's move to a narrower trading band of 2.25 percent from 6 percent previously is an essential step toward the wider objective of European monetary union. Italy has taken great strides in tackling inflation and achieving sustained economic growth in recent years, and the Bank of Italy is now confident of its ability to hold the lira within a narrower band.
The sweeping changes taking place in Eastern Europe have pushed the mark sharply higher against other currencies.
Pressure has been building in the markets for an upward adjustment of the mark, but this has been strongly resisted by France's Finance Minister Pierre Beregovoy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); ITALY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ITALY

SUBJECT: CURRENCY DEVALUATION (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); 

PERSON: PIERRE EUGENE BEREGOVOY (54%); 



126 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Drop Broadly, With Dow Off 22.83

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Stocks retreated broadly yesterday in continued moderate trading. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 22.83 points, to 2,773.25.
The drop, when combined with the decline of the preceding two days, erased more than half of Tuesday's 56.95-point rise. The key indicator finished with a 20.05-point advance for the holiday-shortened week. 
Initially, equities were pushed down by a smaller-than-expected gain in non-farm jobs in the nation and the announcement of the cancellation of political meetings in January by President Mikhail A. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union so he can focus on domestic events. Traders said that sell programs also kicked in late to depress prices further.
On the economic front, the Labor Department reported that non-farm payrolls in December rose by only 142,000 jobs. Most economists expected an increase of 150,000 to 220,000 jobs.
 
Bellwether Bond Up to 8.06%
 The data cheered the bond market initially, but by late in the day the bellwether 30-year Treasury issue had fallen 11/32, to 100 24/32, to yield 8.06 percent, up from 8.03 percent on Thursday and 7.97 percent a week ago.
''We've noted a reversal in the first week of activity from the fourth quarter last year,'' said Brian Luedtke, a vice president at Piper, Jaffray & Hopwood in Minneapolis. ''The 'January effect' - when smaller-capitalized stocks that were depressed late in the year return to favor - was most evident in technology and select economic-sensitive groups.''
Volume shrank to 158.5 million shares, from 177 million on Thursday. Only 591 issues gained ground while 931 fell.
More encompassing indexes than the Dow also faltered, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropping 3.47 points, to 352.20, and the Big Board composite index falling 1.65 points, to 194.64.
 
Philip Morris Most Active
Philip Morris led the most-active list, rising 1/4, to 42 1/8, on a volume of 3.1 million shares. Other busily traded issues included I.B.M., off 1/4, to 99 3/4; A.T.&T. 3/4, to 44 5/8, and General Electric 5/8, to 65 5/8.
Pan Am jumped 1/2, to 3 1/4. An article in Business Week's Jan. 15 issue said that AMR was interested in buying some or all of Pan Am's operations. Traders said that the magazine also reported a rumor that Carl C. Icahn, chairman of Trans World Airlines, was looking at Pan Am as a merger candidate for T.W.A.
Tandy fell 7/8, to 39 3/8. The company said it expected second-quarter earnings to be slightly lower than last year's because of actual and planned patent settlements and because December sales were below projections.
Campbell Soup slipped 1 5/8, to 51 5/8. Leonard Teitelbaum, a Merrill Lynch analyst, said he lowered his rating on the food company to ''neutral'' from ''buy,'' asserting that the takeover interest that has lifted the price of the stock might fade.
Gold stocks gained for a second day as the price of bullion shot up.ASA rose 1 3/8, to 57 3/8; Homestake Mining 7/8, to 20 1/4; Placer Dome 1/2, to 19 1/8, and Echo Bay Mines 1/2, to 19 1/4.
In over-the-counter trading, the Nasdaq composite index dropped 1.17 points, to 458.22, but the market-value index on the American Stock Exchange edged up 0.29, to 382.45.

GRAPHIC: Favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PJC (NYSE) (54%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PIPER JAFFRAY COS (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); MERGERS (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H CARL ICAHN (50%); 



127 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Has Late U.S. Rally; Gold Prices Post Sharp Rise

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar staged a turnaround yesterday, closing mostly higher in domestic dealings after taking a sharp hit in overseas markets that were focusing on events in Eastern Europe.
Gold prices soared by as much as $9 an ounce. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery jumped $7.70 to settle at $406.30 an ounce. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $406.25 an ounce, up $7.50 from Thursday's late bid. 
Reports from the Soviet Union that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev had canceled January appointments with foreign officials so he could deal with domestic problems led to the jump in gold prices. But the reports sent stock prices declining and frightened currency markets worldwide.
''So much depends on him keeping peace in the Eastern bloc to give enough room for progress to continue,'' said Jack Barbanel, managing director of First Global Managers in Princeton, N.J.
While foreign markets focused on Mr. Gorbachev's political health, domestic traders concentrated on a Labor Department report that showed the unemployment rate held steady at 5.3 percent last month. The addition of 142,000 non-farm jobs was weaker than expected.
''The dollar dropped off rather sharply on the weak number,'' said Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company.
The report seemed to support the argument that the United States economy is slowing and that the Federal Reserve might move to lower interest rates. The foreign appetite for dollars is dampened when the yields on American securities decline.
Traders also said the Federal Reserve entered the market to sell dollars for yen, pushing the dollar lower against the Japanese currency.
A lower dollar will help insure ''we have some advantage in continuing the level of exports'' to Japan, which in turn aids in improving the trade deficit, Mr. Barbanel noted.
Despite the news that depressed the dollar early in the day, technical factors pushed it higher at the close of trading.
''The volume was high, and trading was somewhat chaotic,'' Mr. Flanagan said.
In New York, the dollar finished at 144.50 yen, up from 143.38 on Thursday. Earlier, the dollar fell in Tokyo to 144.15 yen, from 145.20 on Thursday. And in London, it fell to 143.75.
In London, the pound rose to $1.6375, from $1.6290 late Thursday. In New York, it cost $1.6350 to buy a pound, unchanged fom Thursday.
Against the West German currency, the dollar rose to 1.6895 marks from 1.6800.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late rates Thursday, included: 1.5445 Swiss francs, up from 1.5395; 5.5778 French francs, down from 5.7450; 1,276.25 Italian lire, up from 1,263.00, and 1.1608 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1607.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $404.50 an ounce, from $395 late Thursday. In Zurich, gold's closing bid was $405.50, up from $395.70 late Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (92%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (75%); JAPANESE YEN (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); BRITISH POUND (74%); GERMAN MARK (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (57%); 

PERSON: JACK BARBANEL (60%); MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (60%); STEPHEN FLANAGAN (60%); 



128 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-7
 
Strikes and protests in Bulgaria were held across the country by Slavic majority members opposed to religious and cultural freedom for ethnic Turks. Page 1
 
A Soviet Communist Party leader was forced to step down from his position as the head of a region on the border with Iran, which has been the site of disturbances and crowd violence. 7
 
Kremlin hints at deeper troops cuts than those proposed 7
 
An exceptional U.S.-Soviet pact should be consummated next month. That is when Susan Eisenhower, granddaughter of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, and Roald Sagdeyev, a leader of the Soviet space program that gave the world Sputnik, plan to marry. 5
 
A hot political issue in Prague centers on a remark made by President Havel about Germans who were expelled after World War II. The issue reflects the fragility of European reconciliation as well as Czechoslovakia's rough-and-tumble politics. 7
 
A Rumanian human rights group is being set up by former dissidents to insure that human rights are observed as the country rids itself of the remnants of the Ceausescu Government. 6
 
Simple 'last homage' to one who stood against Ceausescu 6
 
Poland's economic reform program has become the target of mounting criticism as the prices soar. But the Finance Minister insists that the program is the only route to reviving a crumbling economy. 6 
 
Fighting in Liberia between Government forces and rebels opposed to the West African country's head of state, Gen. Samuel K. Doe, has destroyed two towns and sent thousands fleeing across the border, Western diplomats said. 3
 
A curfew in a region of India, the northern state of Kashmir, was imposed by the authorities after militants seeking independence threatened to disrupt the region, Government officials said. 3
 
Katmandu journal: some room at the top (of the world) 4
 
Tokyo official takes on bastion of sexism, and loses 3
 
Hanoi allowing 2,000 to leave 5
 
National 8-12, 26
 
A ''deal'' with General Noriega is not being sought, said President Bush, though he left open the door for the general to try to arrange a reduction of the charges in his drug-trafficking case. 1
 
General Noriega's ties to the C.I.A. and other American intelligence groups give the Government reason to worry about his public statements and legal maneuvers, Government officials and outside analysts agreed. 1
 
General Noriega's final departure from the Vatican mission in Panama resulted not from an ultimatum or deadline but from a precisely calibrated campaign of psychological persuasion, said the papal envoy to Panama. 1
 
Noriega and lawyers meet; trial strategy is uncertain 11
 
Special cell and guards as general is confined 11
 
Bush complains of TV's use of split screen 11
 
Panamanians strongly back U.S. move, poll shows 9
 
A verdict against a tobacco maker, the first one ever requiring an American manufacturer to compensate the family of a smoker who died of cancer, was overturned. But the ruling made it easier for smokers and their families to submit future lawsuits. 1
 
Jobs were created at a slower rate in December, but the unemployment rate remained unchanged at 5.3 percent, completing a year of exceptional stability, the Labor Department reported. A1
 
The questioning of Charles Keating was taken up by Federal District Judge Stanley Sporkin, who voiced deep concerns about accounting methods used by the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association. 33
 
A Senator denied acting improperly in response to a series of new charges against him. The Senator, Dave Durenberger, is facing a Senate investigation of his financial dealings. 8
 
Washington Talk: Rationing in the sky 8
 
A notorious Boston murder case entered a vicious round of finger-pointing as police, prosecutors and the media tried to figure out how the wrong man had become the main suspect. 8
 
An underlying cause for the oil spill in Alaska was the collapse of Government regulation of the oil tanker industry, a panel of scientists and oil industry experts concluded. 26
 
13 face charges in family killings 8
 
Pilots had no way of knowing jet engines fell off, experts say 12
 
Why milk prices are soaring 33
 
Oil prices push transportation charges up 33
 
Regional 27-30
 
A man was accused of 11 killings,most of them of prostitutes, in a series of attacks that began in Rochester in March 1988, a year after his release from prison for the slayings of two children. 1
 
The new schools chancellor in New York City experienced firsthand some of the system's problems, including limited supplies and slow service, during his first week on the job. 1
 
Principal to be charged with incompetence 28
 
Fiscal troubles may force more cuts in New York City programs, said Mayor Dinkins, who told the heads of all city agencies to outline new spending cuts to help close a budget gap of up to $150 million. 27
 
The head of the Transit Authority announced that he will resign on Feb. 28. David Gunn, who embarked six years ago on what he called a ''suicide mission,'' said he is leaving a system that is now ''acceptable, but not perfect.'' 27
 
A 12-year-old boy was kidnapped a month ago, apparently another innocent victim of the violence of the drug trade. He is still missing, and his brother, a reputed crack dealer from whom the kidnappers demanded ran-som, was found shot to death on Thursday. 27
 
Exxon's handling of the oil leak at the Arthur Kill will be investigated by the New Jersey Attorney General's Office under an order from an ''angry and upset'' Governor Kean. 29
 
A New Jersey prosecutor resigned after his tale of a chase and shoot-out between him and men he described as drug dealers, terrorists or members of the Ku Klux Klan turned out to be a hoax. 27
 
For New York area, 20 lessons in real estate 33
 
Councilman asserts minorities dislike education 29
 
Players line up for tonight's $35 million New York Lotto prize 29
 
Neediest Cases 30

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: PANAMA (93%); BULGARIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); HOLY SEE (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); RELIGION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (55%); PRICE INCREASES (51%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); TOBACCO MFG (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



129 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 4262 words

HEADLINE: The Noriega Case: Statement;
Transcript of Bush News Conference on Noriega and Panama

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's news conference yesterday in Washington, as recorded by The New York Times:
 
OPENING STATEMENT
Well, this morning I met with the Attorney General, Dick Thornburgh, to discuss the legal process related to the prosecution of General Noriega. We are committed to a fair trial and to providing all the protections guaranteed by the United States Constitution and laws. The Attorney General assures me that our case is strong, our resolve is firm and our legal representations are sound. Our Government is not seeking a deal with Noriega. Our policy remains that we have brought him to this country for prosecution.
I will be ever mindful of this legal process in the days ahead and will not comment on any aspect of this prosecution or any matters that could even inadvertently affect the outcome of this case. And I'm going to ask others in this Administration to do the same. 
 
Lifting of Sanctions
Deputy Secretary of State Eagleburger and Deputy Secretary of Treasury Robson have just given me a report on the economic reconstruction efforts in Panama. The first action that the United States took after General Noriega was removed from power was to release some $400 million in money that was withheld by virtue of our economic sanctions, sanctions which are now being lifted -$140 million, I believe, is already in Panama.
The revitalization of the Panamanian economy is a major priority in the months ahead, as our - as are our efforts for humanitarian assistance. And I would say here I've been very grateful for the medical supplies that have gone to Panama.
I can report today that considerable progress has been made so far in returning Panama to a normal state of affairs. The new Government is taking charge, and President Endara is working tirelessly to meet the needs of his people. Both Under Secretary Robson and Eagleburger were very high in their praise of Mr. Calderon and Mr. Ford, and, of course President Endara. They are discussing housing programs, business development, bank loans that will help spur economic growth. We are committed to be a part of that process.
 
U.S. as Friendly Neighbor
I want to assure all of the countries of Latin America that United States policy remains one of a friendly, supportive and respectful neighbor. We have worked hard and intensively to consult bilaterally and multilaterally with Latin America, and we will continue to do that. I personally will be involved in that. At the Latin American summit in Costa Rica I pledged that we would work with the countries of this hemisphere to build a better life for its citizens. Our policy of cooperation is firm.
Yesterday I had a lengthy discussion with Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez of Spain, who is so well-respected - in this hemisphere as well - and I share his deep personal interest in seeing that the countries of this hemisphere pull together on behalf of democracy and economic freedom. I know the yearnings of my fellow leaders in this hemisphere, leaders in Latin America, and I believe they will support the new Government of Panama, and they will support the United States as we work together in this hemisphere.
I've asked the Vice President, Dan Quayle, to visit a number of these Latin American countries within the next several weeks, to personally deliver this message. I view this as very, very important diplomacy and I am determined not to neglect the democracies in this hemisphere. Some have felt that we were so infatuated with the change in Eastern Europe that we were in a process of neglecting this hemisphere and that is not the case. And the Quayle trip, in my view, will help.
I have been undertaking consultations directly with leaders since I've been President. I will resume that, as I said, and the Vice President will be in a position to explain very clearly not only U.S. policy but our aspirations for - for Panama and indeed for this entire hemisphere.
So that's where we are, and I'll be glad to take a few questions. Is it Helen first?
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Possible Deal on Charges
Q. You said that the Government is not seeking any kind of a deal --
A. Yeah.
Q. -- concerning Noriega. Does that mean that you are irrevocably ruling out any reducing of charges, increasing of charges? And also since the indictment runs from '81 to '86 and you had many contacts, apparently, with Panama during that period, were you ever aware of any drug activities on the part of Noriega?
A. On the first part of the question, there's no such plan. The man's entitled to do whatever is, is granted him under our law. So there isn't any such plan.
Secondly, I have made some statements along, in reply to your second question, so punch it in the computer and I'll have nothing more to say about it because I do not want, even inadvertently, to prejudice this case. But my actions are in my view totally unrelated. Yeah, Tom.
 
U.S. Peacekeeping Force
Q. Mr. President, with General Noriega out of Panama and safely in custody in this country, it seems like you might have a difficult choice in deciding how to maintain order in Panama. Do you envision keeping a U.S. military peacekeeping force there beyond the usual contingent of 12,000 troops or would you like to see the Panamanian Defense Forces reconstituted?
A. One, I'd like to see their police forces, whatever emerges, reconstituted. Two, we will get our forces that went in out as soon as possible. Three - I will just say this because your question obviously understand this, but to those listeners out there - Southcom has had a force there and that force, under the treaty, will remain there. But the answer is we want go get those additional, augmented, forces out as soon as possible. And we will.
 
Secrecy on Missions to China
Q. Mr. President, I'd like to try to follow up a question. Mr. President, of all the questions you were asked when you were here last about secrecy, and the two missions by General Scowcroft to China; as I'm sure you may be aware, Secretary of State Baker was asked about what we thought was the first China mission on one of the weekend talk shows. He indicated that it was indeed, it turned out to be the second.
You have since acknowledged quite openly that his answer was false, and that he felt constrained to give that answer to protect the secrecy of the mission. I wondered, first, Sir, whether you felt this was worth it for him to have to do that and second, whether that sort of thing is acceptable in your Administration?
A. Well, let me simply say that some things will be conducted in secrecy and I know you don't like it. Your business is to get everything out in the open, and my business is to conduct the foreign affairs of this country in the way I think I was elected to, and for the most part that will be in the open.
But this move into Panama was held in secrecy and I think the American people understand that. My move to send people to China was controversial. Some think that the best way to make change for human rights in China is isolation. Don't talk to them. Try to punish them by excommunication. I don't feel that way. And so I asked these people to go forward and I don't think Jim Baker would ever deliberately mislead somebody and so I will stand with him.
Q. Sir, I believe he indicated that he felt he had to do that and that he knew what he was doing, that he had to do it. I wondered how you --
A. Ask him about it. I had to support my Secretary of State. Yeah, Lesley?
 
Prejudicing the Noriega Case
Q. You talk about your concern about prejudicing the case, but as you well know, you have called Noriega a thug, and other people in the Administration have gone further; you said he's poisoning our children; haven't you already done that and --
A. Well, I think I've heard all kind of characterizations of him in the press, columnists, even commentators. Presidents, members of the United States Congress. He is not in custody. Time for rhetoric is over. Time for answering hypothetical questions that might prejudice the trial is over. Now I would go back, Lesley, to help you on that to Watergate, where there were hearings. Hearings held. Charges made. Over and over again. Editorials written and voiced, and yet the people received a fair trial. So I am convinced that our system of justice is so fair that the person will get a fair trial. But I can tell you from my standpoint, I am going to bend over backwards and not answer hypothetical questions or not do anything that might prejudice that. Yeah?
Q. I have a follow-up. I want to actually follow up on Helen.
A. No, that's a separate question.
 
Noriega's Trial Rights
Q. Reducing our charges. Are you saying that if he wants to go for that, if he wants to try to go for reducing of charges, that we will entertain --
A. No, I'm not saying that. I'm saying he has a right to do what he wants, and then let the legal process determine how that should work out.
Q. You're not ruling it out?
A. Well, I'm not ruling it in. I'm just saying he's got his rights, and we ought not to stand up here and try to define narrowly what they are. Yes, and then John, and then we'll start moving into the back.
 
Relations With Latin America
Q. Mr. President, based on your opening remarks, and your comments about the Vice President's trip, it would indicate that you're concerned about relations with Latin America. Has the actions we've taken set it back?
A. To some degree I am concerned, because I am well aware of how our friends south of our border, including my friend President Salinas, look at the use of American force anywhere. So I'm concerned about it. I think it's something that's correctable, because I think they know that I have tried a lot of consultation, that we have exhausted the remedies in this particular case of multilateral diplomacy. But given the history of the use of U.S. force, I would be remiss if I didn't face up to the problem that we must go forward diplomatically now to explain how this President looks at the protection of American life; that we acted, in our view, well within our rights, but that we will continue a consultation - but look, I felt strongly about the protection of American life. So we've got to get them to understand that this isn't a shift away from what some had termed excessively timid diplomacy.
Q. But, Mr. President, wouldn't that indicate that actually you're - that we're continuing old American policies that have upset the people of Latin America?
A. Well, to the degree, if there is that perception, then it's up to me and the Secretary. And in this instance, the Vice President's trip takes on enormous importance to convince the people of the truth, and that is that we are not reverting to just, you know, a willful -what's the word I'm groping for here - the use of force that has no rationale. But when it comes to the protection of American life, please, our friends south of the border, understand this President is going to protect it.
I'll tell you one thing that's helped on this, to the degree there is a problem at all, and that is the way the Panamanian democracy is now starting to move forward, the certification of the three people who had been deprived of their right to hold office by the previous regime. That's been of enormous help. And then I think the other thing is the reception, the public reception in Panama for our action. It has been overwhelming, overwhelming.
 
Political Reactions on Panama
Q. On that, Sir, Lee Atwater, the chairman of the R.N.C., says Panama is a political jackpot for you and it will wipe out the disenchantment, for example, with the way you handled China. Without saying that's why you went into Panama [unintelligible], it is a political jackpot.
A. Well, Jesse Jackson doesn't think so. He talked to my wife. And so, you know, there's differences of opinions on that. But this isn't, I didn't do something for a political reason. That's not the reason I do that. I did it to protect American life. A President's called on to take certain action. We're not going in to try to furbish a political image. That's ridiculous.
Q. I haven't said that, though. Have you now neutralized the Democrats on foreign policy? Is this the last time George Mitchell can ever accuse you of having a timid foreign policy?
A. Knowing George, he'll find a reason; he'll find a way. And that's his job. I mean, look, we're going into an election year. But this, this - I want to try if I can to separate - the response has been - he's been supportive of this. Let's give the man credit. But I don't think it's laid to rest or put off bounds any criticism of the President by a Democratic opposition, if that's the question. No. Absolutely not. Yeah, Frank. And then back there. And then you're third.
 
Disposition of U.S. Troops
Q. Mr. President, do you anticipate that the combat troops, the bulk of the additional combat troops sent into Panama will indeed be out by the end of this month, as some Administration officials have said? And secondly, and more broadly, do you now see an expanded role for the American military in small regional issues like this one or in more particularly in the war against drugs since there was a strong drug connection to this operation?
A. No, I see no - well - I see no parallel between the situation here, where American lives were at stake and you had an indicted person who'd usurped power and declared war against the United States, I don't think you can draw a parallel between that unique situation and then other countries. And what was the other part of it?
Q. The bit about when you see America, these additional combat troops, able to come home, all of them?
A. Soon as possible and I have made clear to the Secretary of Defense, to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, who is down in Panama right now, I believe that this is what we should do. This is what they themselves want to do. Some U.S. forces that went in are already out. So I would look for an early return.
Q. General time frame?
A. Can't help you, but soon as General Powell gets back we'll have a more - Dave?
Q. What about the international --
A. Your name Dave? Go ahead.
Q. What about the international law implications, isn't this something that you are also going to talk to the Latin American countries about?
A. Absolutely.
Q. Mr. President, what is the explanation behind it?
A. The right to protect American lives granted under the U.N. Charter, and we will - we will protect lives of citizens, and we will go forward with that. The State Department, as I understand it, has already spelled that out. But I think you raise a good point: yes, we should make very clear why we acted and under what authority we acted as we did. David?
 
Future Deployment of Military
Q. Mr. President, you just described Panama as a unique case, and I'd just like to ask you a sort of a philosophical question. If the criteria you listed here - protecting American lives, having exhausting all the other diplomatic options - presented themselves again, should we look in a Bush Presidency for more such deployments of military force if your criteria were met?
A. Well, yes, if you can spell out what the criteria is, and then if you - if you can look to the future to see the situation surrounding it. I can't visualize another situation quite this unique, but let me just say, when American life is threatened we - we were concerned in El Salvador, for example; a civilian hotel could well have been occupied by a guerrilla force that would have threatened the American use of - threatened American life. That concerned me, and indeed we - we moved forces. Not in some macho way, but to try to protect the lives of American citizens. But I think most people understood that.
But I don't see, David, I don't see another real parallel here looming on the horizon at all.
 
Results on Missions to China
Q. Mr. President, back to the issue of China, your decision to send emissaries to China carried some costs for you. Have you seen any payoff? Have you had any response from the regime there that is productive or encouraging for you?
A. Well, it does carry some. And I think some who were familiar with the situation have been quite supportive - and some quite critical, I will admit that. As I indicated, some favor isolation: Don't talk and let them come to us. I think one of the great things that happened to us is - you know, under the Shanghai Communique and prior to that - is the fact that we had a kind of contact, and they began to see - began to facilitate - our contact helped facilitate the changes and the reforms that have taken place. So I want to see those go forward again. But I - is that responsive? I can't remember -
Q. Let me ask you specifically, are we close to a resolution on the issue of the dissidents?
A. I don't know the answer to that, I don't know the answer to that. They're - they know my position, and it is one of adherence to human rights, I might add. The thing I object to about this whole one is the assigning of motives to the other person. You can question the tactics but I refuse to let my political critics get me down in terms of they understand human rights and I don't. I want to see, through the contacts that we've made, change that can be manifested in several ways. Now there has been some. The Voice of America, for example, now permitted somebody to go - is now, you know, they have a person permitted to go there; been a reiteration of sale of missiles, which we - are very much in our - I think in the interest of peace in the world. So there's been progress, and hopefully - I would like to hope that there would be more.
 
Encouragement to Gorbachev
Q. Mr. President, as you know, Mikhail Gorbachev has been visiting the Baltics in his country to deal with the growing independence or autonomy movement there. Have you encouraged him to allow those movements to continue or do you consider that essentially an internal affair?
A. Well, he's got his own internal affairs but he knows of our advocacy of peaceful change and to the man's credit, he has been the big advocate of peaceful change. He's been the advocate of reform. I mean, you've got to link it, Jerry, to Eastern Europe to some degree, and I realize and we can discuss this, that the problems are different, but give the credit that - I don't think any of us, a year ago from this day would have given, in terms of Soviet adherence to - Gorbachev's adherence to change, given the dynamic upheaval in Eastern Europe.
He's facing problems inside the borders of the Soviet Union. The Baltics, recently this other one, and he is - keeps reiterating his conviction about peaceful change. So I support that. That we did have an opportunity to discuss, in broad philosophical terms, this question at Malta.
Q. As a result of that, is that not going to affect him?
A. Well I'm certainly not buying into the hypothesis that there will - and I hope that he will - if this approach that he has taken, for which we give credit, will prevail.
 
Slaying of Nun in Nicaragua
Q. Yes, Mr. President, several times today you made reference to the U.S. right and indeed your obligation to protect American lives. Today an American nun is being buried here in the United States, even the Catholic order she represented here in Nicaragua claims that she was killed by contra forces.
A. They did say that? I'd heard --
Q. Representatives of that group say the contra forces have been known to operate in that area using those tactics and perhaps they didn't recognize the pickup truck that they were driving in. What do we know about who may have killed those nuns? And what are you doing to communicate to the contras? Are you trying to call them off?
A. Well we're not calling them off because we don't know they were called on. And I'm interested in what you - your hypothesis, because you're telling me that some have concluded that it was the contras. The contras have denied that. Some have suggested it might be the other side. The answer is I deplore the loss of that nun's life and similarly another that I believe was killed that was a Nicaraguan there. And I deplore that loss of life. But it is murky. It is extraordinarly murky. Similar to the situation in El Salvador. But I won't take this opportunity to speak out against it, but we don't know the answer to it. And in El Salvador we have said find out; we'll give you whatever technical assistance we can. And we want to find the answer to this question. Yeah, Ann?
Q. You're not confident then that the contras didn't commit --
A. I don't know the answer to your question. They said they didn't; others are accusing them. And I don't know and I don't think our Government knows. I'd share it with you if it did. Ann?
 
Women Leading Combat Units
Q. Mr. President, In Panama we saw women leading troops in combat for the first time. Are you comfortable with women in that role and would you support changes in the restrictions on women in combat?
A. No, I think this is a matter of willingly accept - listen to recommendations from the Defense Department but these were not combat assignments. But anytime you have a highly trained gung-ho volunteer force, and they're caught up in some of the firefights that went on, a person, man or woman, can be inflicted - put into a combat situation. But it's my understanding, and I thing Cheney took a question on that today, that these were not combat roles. And so I would let the heroic performance of these people be weighed and measured and then see if the Defense Department wanted to recommend to the President any additional changes. Yeah?
Q. Do you have assurances from Moscow?
A. Three more - one and then two way in the back, just in the spirit of equity.
 
Moscow's Reaction on Panama
Q. Do you have assurances from Moscow that the operation in Panama won't hurt U.S.-Soviet relations?
A. It's not equitable. Excuse me.
Q. Do you have assurances from Moscow that the operation in Panama won't hurt U.S.-Soviet relations?
A. Well, I'm confident - they didn't seem overly enthused about it, by Mr. Gerasimov's statement. But on the other hand, we, we - I don't agree with him at all. But I don't think it's going to fundamentally flaw the relationships between ourselves and the United States. Way - Craig.
 
Latin View of the Invasion
Q. Do you think that the Latin leaders have been hypersensitive to the - given the fact that in back channels apparently they've been supportive of the invasion. Can you say if that is correct? And then also because of that, do you think they've been hypersensitive in their - in their public statements about U.S. force in the region?
A. I like to feel that given the way the situation's resolved, there is more support than has manifested itself in votes at the United Nations or in public, public statements. The Vice President's trip will help on this. My own consultations will help decide, you know, give me a clearer answer to your, to your question. But I, I, I am absolutely convinced, given what happened, and the reason why it happened, that if there is damage, I can repair it, we can repair it. The State Department and whoever else is involved can, can repair it.
Q. Do you see as hypersensitive their reaction so far?
A. Well, I think predictably so.
Q. Mr. President --
A. This is the last one - way in the back.
 
Sovereignty and Drug War
Q. Mr. President, some countries, [unclear] President Endara of Panama [unclear] feels that their sovereignty might be violated if the United States pursues drug dealers in their countries. And there has been some change in laws that can, you know, can be reasonable, that they are worried about these. In the sense that the C.I.A., the F.B.I. going in and going through to apprehend people outside the United States territory.
A. And so the question is what?
Q. Does these - do these countries have reason to be worried that the President of Panama might serve as --
A. Oh - Panama was, was more than that. Panama had clearly other ingredients that caused American action. It wasn't a simple case of going after a person who had been indicted for - for narcotics. Even though he had the abortion of democracy but you also had this - this threat to the lives of Americans.
 
CONCLUDING STATEMENT Let me do something in conclusion that may be a little risky, and it's a housekeeping detail. And it relates mainly to television.
I got a lot of mail after the last press conference. I had some calls. Because when I was speaking here in this room, juxtaposed against my frivolous comments at the time were some - a split-screen technique that showed American lives - the bodies of dead soldiers in the caskets - of dead soldiers coming home.
And all I would respectfully request that if the urgency of the moment is such that that technique is going to be used, if I could be told about it and we'll stop the proceedings. Or it, it's something less traumatic.
But that one - I could understand why the viewers were, were concerned about this. They thought their President, at a solemn moment like that, didn't give a damn.
And I do. I do. I feel it so strongly. So please help me with that if you would. Thank you all very much.
 
Plans for Bush Visit to Panama
Q. Sir, will you go to Panama?
A. We don't have immediate plans.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at a news conference yesterday. He said he ''is not seeking a deal,'' with Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega's lawyers. (The New York Times/Paul Hosefros)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PANAMA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); COSTA RICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TRANSCRIPTS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



130 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Peru's Inflation Is Owed To Lack of Restraints

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your report that Peru will resume some International Monetary Fund debt payments (Business Day, Dec. 7) calls President Alan Garcia's debt policy ''disastrous.'' For Peru, 1988 and 1989 have indeed been disastrous years, but in the first two full years of the policy, 1986 and 1987, Peru enjoyed real growth rates of 8.6 percent and 6.9 percent, respectively, with its lowest inflation since 1982, indicating that the debt policy did not cause the disaster. 
Peru's economic problems originate in President Garcia's domestic policies. The hyperinflation reflects absence of monetary and fiscal restraint, marked by an increase in the government deficit from 3 percent of gross domestic product in 1985 to 8.4 percent in 1987. Meanwhile, price controls and generous wage increases made consumption and imports rise, draining Peru's foreign reserves. The economic contraction results largely from the foreign exchange shortage, which prevents vital imports.
President Garcia's debt policy made available foreign exchange that would otherwise have gone abroad in debt payments. Had it been invested, rather than squandered, we would probably be hailing his courage and foresight, and pointing to Peru as a model for other heavily indebted countries.
 
ANTHONY MARCUS
 
JEFFREY FRANKS
 Princeton, N.J., Dec. 19, 1989
 
The writers are students at, respectively, Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School and Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); 



131 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: COLOMBIANS BALK AT A CRUCIAL PART OF U.S. DRUG PLANS

BYLINE: By BERNARD E. TRAINOR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6

 BODY:
The Bush Administration's plan to step up military involvement in the war on drugs in Latin America was dealt a setback this week when Colombia balked at a crucial element, the stationing of United States vessels off its coast, Administration officials say.
The officials also say the Pentagon intends to put ground-based radar units in the mountains of Colombia, Peru and Bolivia, to be run by Americans and officers of those nations. This element of the plan, already approved by Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, would be the first use of American forces in other countries for surveillance of planes believed to be carrying drugs.
The broad outlines of the military's plans were revealed Dec. 28 when the White House press spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, told reporters that the Administration had ''decided to take certain actions'' to help Latin American countries fight the flow of drugs into the United States. Mr. Fitzwater did not provide specifics, but other officials have said the Defense Department has completed plans to send an aircraft carrier battle group to international waters off Colombia and to use surveillance planes in the region.
 
Ships Leave Home Port
The battle group, consisting of the aircraft carrier John F. Kennedy and support ships, left its home port in Norfolk, Va., on Friday for the Caribbean. But the group will not take position off the Colombian coast until the Pentagon's overall anti-drug plan is formally announced. 
That announcement is now scheduled for the week of Jan. 15. Officials had planned to announce the details of the plan earlier. But the Colombian authorities refused this past week to meet with an American team that had been sent to explain the Navy plan. Administration officials said, however, that they are confident that President Virgilio Barco Vargas of Colombia will cooperate with the American plan.
An Administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the American intervention in Panama to oust Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega as the Panamanian leader unsettled the Colombians. The official said the Colombians feared that the United States might use its Panama operation as a precedent to enter other countries in pursuit of people wanted on American drug trafficking charges. The official also said that earlier reports about the dispatch of a naval force to Colombia had been misinterpreted by the Colombians as suggesting the United States planned a blockade.
 
General Support for Plan
Venezuela, the only other country that would be directly affected by the naval proposal, did receive the briefing team. Peru and Bolivia have been generally agreeable to the overall military plan, which includes establishing radar sites in their countries.
In his press conference on Friday, President Bush acknowledged the need to allay concerns among Latin American nations over the American intervention in Panama. He said he would send Vice President Dan Quayle to meet with several Latin American leaders in Honduras on Jan. 27.
No cost estimates for the expanded drug program are available yet, but it is likely to be a multibillion-dollar effort. The United States has already supplied Colombia with $65 million in emergency military aid and President Bush has pledged $2 billion in economic aid to Colombia, Bolivia and Peru over the next four years.
Pentagon officials are uncertain how effective the new effort will be in combating drug traffic, but expect it to discourage drug traffickers and say it will give a psychological boost to Latin countries by showing American support for their war against drugs.
The program may at least make drug smuggling more difficult and dangerous for those who see it as simply a business, a Drug Enforcement Administration official said. ''When private pilots doing contract work for the cartels find they are being tracked and may be shot down, they may not want to stay in the game,'' the official said.
In September, Mr. Cheney ordered the military to put together plans for an expanded role in the battle against drugs. The detailed strategy was developed on the basis of recommendations submitted by senior military commanders to the Joint Chiefs of Staff in mid-October.
 
No U.S. Combat Role Planned
Those plans call for the radar units in the Andes to be part of an extensive intelligence and electronic surveillance network that would monitor air traffic in the Caribbean and the Andean region of South America, Administration officials said. These officials stressed that the American technicians who will be operating the radar units are not expected to play a combat role or the make decisions about the shooting down of aircraft suspected of carrying drugs or the raiding of landing sites. The officials said such decisions would be made by Colombian, Peruvian and Bolivian authorities using their own forces.
It is not known how many radar sites will be involved or how much danger the radar technicians would face in the mountainous areas where they would be set up. But military officials rate the danger as minimal.
There are currently about 14 Army special forces troops in Bolivia and a similar number in Peru. There are also 60 to 100 American military specialists and technicians in noncombat roles at an equipment center in Colombia to help in that country's battle against drug dealers.
The Kennedy, once in place off the Colombian coast, would use E-2C Hawkeye planes, radar-equipped aircraft, to monitor air traffic over Colombia. In addition, the plans call for Air Force Awacs surveillance aircraft to monitor air traffic in the region.
As part of the new program, the military plans to establish communications systems to transmit information picked up by the radars and electronic eavesdropping equipment to the authorities within the three countries.
 
Ship Off Colombian Coast
At a later date, Administration officials said, an amphibious helicopter ship will be stationed off Colombia to provide a secure sea base to support Colombian drug interdiction efforts. Among other functions, the ship will serve as a training and equipment maintenance site and provide backup communications and electronics intelligence support for systems already established ashore.
The ship could also provide a temporary safe haven for endangered Colombian officials like judges and intelligence agents, an Administration official said. Some United States advisers could also be on the ship, keeping down the number of Americans ashore in Colombia. The United States has already used a similar sea-based system off El Salvador.
Small twin-engine private planes are used widely to transport coca paste from Peru and Bolivia to Colombia for refinement into cocaine powder. Much of the finished product is then smuggled into the United States by air. Officials concede that distinguishing between illegal drug and legitimate business flights will pose a major problem.
There are thousands of primitive air strips in the region and many businessmen, like cattle ranchers in remote areas of Colombia and Peru, use airplanes for routine transportation.
A Pentagon official said: ''This will not be an overnight process. The first job is to get everything in place and build up a data base on air traffic in the region and identify the landing strips and flight patterns of suspected drug flights.''
 
Security for Operations
Another problem involves security for operations. Anti-narcotics efforts throughout the Andean region have been hampered by government corruption and reluctance to move aggressively against drug traffickers. Many drug raids are conducted half-heartedly and in many instances those involved with illegal drugs are tipped off to impending military and police action against them.
To achieve secrecy for sensitive missions, a Pentagon officer said Colombian anti-drug authorities could probably plan sensitive missions aboard the off-shore amphibious ship scheduled to sail to the region in a few months.
A small number of United States special forces, equipment technicians, helicopter mechanics and intelligence experts are already scattered throughout the Andean region. Although the number of Americans will increase as the surveillance and intelligence network grows, Pentagon officials insist that the American military presence will be kept to a minimum.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); PERU (94%); PANAMA (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONDURAS (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NORFOLK, VA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; COLOMBIA; PERU; BOLIVIA; LATIN AMERICA

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY VESSELS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NAVIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); RADAR SYSTEMS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: TRAINOR, BERNARD E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



132 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL/3-16

 
The downfall of Nicolae Ceausescu was probably brought about by his own arrogance as much as by bullets and jeering crowds. Page 1

 
The Soviet-Rumania border will be opened, and oil and gas will be provided to Rumanians to turn on their heat for the first winter in years, pledged Foreign Minister Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union. 1

 
An elite Soviet training school for Communist apparatchiks is trying to adjust to the transformation of Soviet politics. Its curriculum is being rewritten to reflect a more honest party history and two-thirds of the faculty is being replaced. 14

 
Crowds raid Soviet-Iran border 14

 
Thousands of Slavs continue anti-Turkish protests 14

 
Berlin Communists urges troop cuts 16

 
In reaction to Rumania, a hardening in Beijing 16

 
A Japanese aid package for Poland and Hungary that will include more than $1 billion in loans and guarantees will be announced next week, Japanese officials said. 16

 
The economic woes of Argentines include not only the immediate problem of coping with roller-coaster inflation, but also a general decline in their standards of living. 
3

 
Attacks on African villagers in Sudan by Government-supported Arab militiamen have resulted in the deaths of between 300 and 1,500 villagers, reports from Western officials in Khartoum say. 12

 
Vietnam allows more prisoners to leave for U.S. 3

 
2 Korean parties seek an alliance 9

 
Philippine rebels kill mayor and threaten G.I.'s 13

 
Paper in India closes in a dispute over wages 4

 
Renewed Muslim-Christian battle in Beirut kills 3 5

 
Iran rejects Iraqi offer of talks as a 'deception' 8

 
English is making a comeback in Sri Lanka 6

 
Archie Bunker's South African cousin has TV debut 12

 
NATIONAL/18-25

 
U.S. plans for the war on drugs in Latin America were dealt a setback this week when Colombia balked at a crucial part of the plan - the stationing of United States vessels off its coast, Administration officials said. 1

 
Cocaine ring's latest move: kidnapping wealthy Colombians 22

 
Booty from drug cases enriches police coffers 18

 
Prosecutors in the Noriega case, depending on an indictment that draws heavily on the testimony of convicted drug traffickers, are scrambling to make deals with co-defendants and searching for new evidence to fortify their case. 1

 
Key figures in proceedings against Noriega 19

 
In Panama, life after Noriega seems surreal 20

 
For Panama's inmates, a prison like Devil's Island 19

 
An ambitious space shuttle mission scheduled to begin tomorrow involves the rescue and bringing back to Earth of a bus-size satellite that is slowly falling out of orbit. 1
 
The strain on the student-athlete to strike a proper balance between academics and a demanding sports regimen is becoming a growing problem in college baseball, hockey, golf and tennis programs as well as high-profile basketball and football programs. 1

 
Officials investigating the bombings in the Southeast met this week to coordinate their efforts. The officials, who come from three states, said no new letters were received from the suspected bombers. 18

 
The story of Carol and Charles Stuart has become an outrageous tale of murder. Still, it is a story that people who knew the couple - or thought they did - say they cannot comprehend. 24

 
The trial of the computer expert accused of illegally gaining entry to dozens of computers on a nationwide network is scheduled to begin in Syracuse on Monday. 18

 
Illinois and Kentucky at odds over a disputed river border 23

 
REGIONAL/26-29

 
The school system's headquarters would go through a sweeping reorganization under a plan announced by Chancellor Fernandez to eliminate 14 bureaus and 218 jobs. 28

 
The Williamsburgh Savings Bank, based in the landmark Brooklyn building of the same name, plans to change its name to the Manhattan Savings Banks after its merger with that bank. To some Brooklynites, the change is something of a slight. 28

 
Harrison Goldin has begun a new life as the head of a financial consulting concern specializing in advising financially troubled companies after his fourth term as City Comptroller ended last Monday. 29

 
Immigrants are swelling English classes and waiting lists. 26

 
Cuomo confuses advocates on both sides of abortion issue 27

 
Healthy economy is seen for farms 27

 
Patient overflow alarms hospitals 28

 
Gramercy Park residents return home to new horrors 28

 
Neediest Cases/29

 
Arts/Reviews/49-50

 
Music: Cantonese comic opera 49

 
Campus Life/35-37

 
LeMoyne-Owen College reaching out to serve neighbors 35

 
Fashion/44-45

 
Life Style/38-41

 
There's more to coin laundries than getting the wash done 38

 
Obituaries/30

 
Arthur Kennedy, actor
 
Louis A. Schuker, educator
 
Pastimes/51-52

 
Stamps 51

 
Coins 51

 
Weddings/46-49

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PANAMA (92%); SUDAN (92%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); TURKEY (79%); JAPAN (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); POLAND (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); EARTH (65%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (75%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); CURRICULA (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); BASEBALL (71%); TENNIS (71%); SPORTS (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (67%); LIVING STANDARDS (67%); EVIDENCE (65%); INDICTMENTS (65%); TESTIMONY (64%); DRUG POLICY (62%); COCAINE (62%); ATHLETES (61%); SPACECRAFT (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (60%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); SPACE EXPLORATION (60%); 

PERSON: NICOLAE CEAUSESCU (74%); 



133 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST: Japan;
Tokyo Broadens Plan to Aid A New Poland and Hungary

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 6

 BODY:
In a signal of Japan's eagerness to take part in the emerging new order in Europe, Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu plans next week to announce a package of more than $1 billion in loans and guarantees for Poland and Hungary, Japanese officials said today.
The officials said Mr. Kaifu would present the new assistance package, which is several times larger than anything discussed publicly up to now, during a 10-day visit to Europe that begins on Monday.
Most of Tokyo's plan consists of low-interest loans to Poland and Hungary for the import of machinery and capital goods from Japan and other countries. Japan and the other exporting nations stand to benefit from Mr. Kaifu's package. 
Like the aid packages being assembled in the United States and Western Europe, the Japanese plan would be contingent on efforts by Poland and Hungary to open up their economies to market forces and to negotiate debt rescheduling.
Mr. Kaifu's trip is to include stops in most major Western European capitals, as well as visits to Warsaw and Budapest. His stop in the Hungarian capital will be the first by a Japanese Prime Minister.
 
Aid Is Conditional
The officials said Prime Minister Kaifu wanted to convey the willingness of Japanese companies to make major investments in Eastern Europe provided that Poland, Hungary and other countries overhaul their economies.
''We have always thought that the important thing for Eastern Europe is not government assistance, but for those countries to make the transition to a market economy,'' a Japanese official said.
He said similar aid and investment packages could be assembled for Czechoslovakia, Rumania, East Germany and other countries. But for the moment, he said, Poland and Hungary are the only Eastern European countries that have made a commitment to liberalizing their economies.
Mr. Kaifu's trip was planned at least in part to improve his political standing in Japan before parliamentary elections in February. Japanese officials said the visit was also aimed at allaying Western European suspicions about the Japanese, worries that are growing as economic competition intensifies.
 
A Role in World Politics
Japanese officials said Mr. Kaifu wanted to send a message that Tokyo is determined to take part in the unfolding of a new Europe, and to insure that Japanese automobiles, electronics goods and other exports are not shut out of this new economic order.
''We believe we have now come to the stage where Japan has to be a major player in world politics,'' the official said. ''Not just in the economic sense, but in maintaining and shaping the future world order. We want Europeans to understand that basically we share the same values.''
But businessmen and officials here emphasize that major Japanese private investment in Poland and Hungary will not be forthcoming unless Western European nations show that they are willing to consider importing the end products.
Officials said that the automaker Daihatsu discussed the possibility of building an automobile factory in Poland, and that Suzuki held similar talks about a car factory in Hungary.
 
Finding West European Markets
Those ventures are unlikely to succeed unless the factories export cars to Western Europe, which has been unreceptive to Japanese automobile imports. Officials said that Mr. Kaifu would test West European attitudes on these and other investments next week.
Executives here acknowledge that Japanese investment in Eastern Europe might be viewed as an attempt by Tokyo to secure a foothold on the Continent as Europe moves toward economic and political integration.
''Europe is becoming more united and more integrated than before, which we welcome,'' said a Japanese official. ''But there's always a possibility that Europe will then become more concerned with itself rather than relations with the outside world.''
Officials said that the team accompanying Mr. Kaifu has not determined the exact sum of its aid and loan package, but that it appeared to be in the range of $1.5 billion, and perhaps as high as $1.95 billion.
 
As Much as $1.95 Billion
The figure of $1.95 billion was cited today by the Asahi newspaper, but it appears that a good portion of that amount is ''soft money,'' like guarantees of compensation to Japanese exporters should Poland or Hungary default on payments.
Two months ago, Mr. Kaifu's Government announced that Japan would provide $150 million to Poland to help the country stabilize its currency and restructure its economy.
This proposal remains the centerpiece of Japan's package, but the sum has grown to include $50 million in food aid for Poland and technical assistance for Poland and Hungary, officials said.
Officials said Japan was also ready to provide perhaps $400 million to $500 million each to Poland and Hungary to finance the imports of capital goods and machinery needed to revitalize their industrial base.
Poland and Hungary could also each receive another several hundred million dollars in the form of guarantees to Japanese exporters that would ship goods to those countries. In the tradition of much Japanese aid, those sums would help Japanese businesses as well as the recipients.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); JAPAN (99%); HUNGARY (95%); POLAND (95%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; JAPAN; HUNGARY

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRENDS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN) KAIFU TOSHIKI (74%); 



134 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST: China;
In Reaction to Rumania, A Hardening in Beijing

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Shocked at the upheavals in Rumania, the Chinese Government is reacting by taking an even harder line politically and adopting a tougher posture diplomatically, Chinese officials and foreign diplomats say.
Police and army units have been put on alert, and plans to lift martial law have been canceled, the officials and diplomats said. They say the Chinese leadership has been deeply traumatized by the toppling of the Rumanian Government.
''The entire picture has changed because of Rumania,'' said a university professor who backed the democracy movement last spring. ''Things were getting better for a time, but now they seem to be worsening again.'' 
The hardening of policy is the opposite of the conciliatory signals that President Bush apparently anticipated when he sent Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, on an official visit to Beijing in early December.
 
Relaxing Economic Controls
But while political control tightens, Chinese officials say that the Government is relaxing some economic controls to avoid the threat of unrest from disgruntled workers. Most importantly, a central party document has called for salaries of employees at state-owned companies to be raised before Chinese New Year late this month. In addition, special efforts are being made to assure plentiful supplies for the holiday, and the authorities are trying to win support by easing monetary policy and restrictions on rural enterprises, Chinese officials said.
While almost everyone interviewed describes the Government these days as tense and anxious, few expect large demonstrations in Beijing soon.
''I tend to think of the population in terms of sullenness rather than explosiveness,'' said a Western diplomat.
A university student said: ''We were so happy about Rumania. But who dares to go out on the streets, with martial law still in effect? We can't show our pleasure.''
 
Banners and Quiet Gatherings
Yet some students and intellectuals have been surprisingly bold, putting up posters and banners and holding quiet gatherings at a half-dozen universities and other institutions.
Residents of the capital are also talking - some with an air of wonderment - of the small group of students that demonstrated last month in front of the Government television offices. Seven to 10 of the students were arrested, but their action is widely hailed as a sign that the people of Beijing have not been entirely cowed.
An aspect of the Rumanian rebellion that is believed to have most shocked the Chinese leadership was the army's role in overthrowing President Nicolae Ceausescu. Since that happened, there has been a stream of meetings reported in the People's Liberation Army Daily in which the Chinese leaders have stressed that the army must always obey the Communist Party.
''The easiest way to capture the fortress is from within,'' cautioned the People's Daily in reporting the discussions at political study classes for the army. The newspaper said that the chief of the general staff, Chi Haotian, had ''rushed'' back from the provinces to join the classes, which, it said, stressed that ''the party must exercise absolute control over the army.''
 
Tough Statement on Dissident
There have been two important statements on significant foreign policy matters since the Rumanian unrest that have suggested a harder line is emerging, diplomats say. The first was China's unexpectedly harsh criticism on Dec. 30 of a British plan to allow 225,000 Hong Kong residents who hold British passports to take up residence in Britain after the colony is turned over to China in 1997.
The second was the Government's tough statement on Wednesday about Fang Lizhi, the dissident astrophysicist who has taken refuge in the American Embassy. Mr. Fang and his wife, Li Shuxian, who is also a leading dissident, fled to the American Embassy during the Government crackdown last June. The statement, which was much harsher than comments about the couple by the Communist Party leader Jiang Zemin on Dec. 21, said the ''only way out'' for Mr. Fang was to plead guilty immediately.
While there was never an announcement that martial law would end, some knowledgeable Chinese say that the Politburo had agreed to lift it, possibly on Dec. 24. But they say that this decision was revoked in a series of emergency meetings that began on Dec. 22, as the Rumanian rebellion unfolded.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); ROMANIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EMBASSY (57%); COMMUNIST PARTY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF; RUMANIA

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MARTIAL LAW INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); ARMIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ARRESTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); WORKPLACE MORALE (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SCOWCROFT, BRENT GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



135 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Cocaine Ring's Latest Campaign: Kidnapping Wealthy Colombians

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Jan. 6

 BODY:
Shifting tactics from bombing and killing, Colombia's cocaine traffickers have kidnapped about 20 members of wealthy families in recent days, the police say.
Pablo Escobar Gaviria, declared Colombia's most wanted criminal by law-enforcement authorities, is believed to be orchestrating the kidnapping campaign in Medellin, Colombia's second-largest city and the headquarters of his trafficking ring.
''You could describe one as a Colombian Vanderbilt, another as the owner of the fastest growing group of chain stores,'' the managing editor of a news organization here said of the prominent captives.
The drug traffickers have also seized the son of President Virgilio Barco Vargas's closest adviser, German Montoya. 
 
Message From Kidnapping Ring
On Friday, newspapers published a communique from the Extraditables, a terrorist group set up by the traffickers. Using leftist language, the group said the kidnapping campaign was designed to raise money for ''contruction of popular housing'' and for ''the war declared against the political oligarchy.''
''We have ordered leaders of poor neighborhoods to take hostage members of the traditional oligarchy,'' said the group, which acts on behalf of multimillionaire cocaine dealers who fear extradition to the United States.
Analysts here give a mixture of political and economic explanations for the kidnapping campaign. ''I think the situation in Medellin is changing,'' said an aide to President Barco. ''The city is starting to turn against the traffickers. The kidnappings neutralize the important local families.''
 
Appeals to Populist Sentiment
Mr. Escobar has long used appeals to populist sentiment. In the mid-1980's, Mr. Escobar paid for a low-income housing project in Medellin.
Oddly enough, in recent years Mr. Escobar has also sponsored a clandestine group, Death to Kidnappers, that killed left-wing guerrillas.
''He is trying to reach out, with a populist appeal,'' said the magazine editor. ''But by kidnapping, I think, he will make more enemies than friends.''
Gen. Miguel Maza Marquez, the head of Colombia's federal intelligence police, argued that the Government's five-month war on the traffickers has disrupted their business to the extent that they are short of cash. ''Escobar is kidnapping because he has a liquidity problem,'' the general said.
Mr. Escobar's personal fortune is estimated at $2 billion, but in recent months the authorities have seized many of his ranches and airplanes and have frozen many of his bank accounts.
 
Death of Rodriguez Gacha
General Maza argued that the death on Dec. 15 of Jose Rodriguez Gacha, a major trafficker, in a shootout with security forces had deprived Mr. Escobar of key military and logistical support. Mr. Rodriguez Gacha, who appeared on wanted posters here with Mr. Escobar, is believed to have controlled much of the chain of supply for cocaine shipped to the United States.
Mr. Rodriguez Gacha is believed to have orchestrated a bombing campaign for the Extraditables last fall. The police say the traffickers exploded 203 bombs, killing 261 people and wounding 1,238.
The pace of the bombings has declined drastically in the three weeks since Mr. Rodriguez Gacha's death. Last week, the police in Bogota raided a bomb factory containing over three tons of dynamite. This week, police in Medellin seized 275 pounds of dynamite in a raid.
Indeed, the only major explosion in recent days took place on Thursday at a cocaine laboratory in Medellin. Five people were killed when the illicit laboratory blew up.
Assassinations have not ceased, however. A land reform adviser to President Barco was shot to death on Friday night in Medellin, the police said today. The adviser, Roberto Lozano Suarez, was shot by a man at a motorcycle as he sat in his car at a stoplight.
Mr. Escobar is believed to be hiding in Medellin, and on Friday the local army commander distributed wanted posters in the city offering a $450,000 bounty for information leading to his capture.
''Yesterday it was Rodriguez Gacha,'' the posters say. ''Now it will be Pablo Escobar.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; KIDNAPPING CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (93%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (92%); COCAINE (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); EXTRADITION (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); RETAILERS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS (57%); 



136 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 27, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: HEALTHY ECONOMY IS SEEN FOR FARMS

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 5

 BODY:
A healthy farm economy for New York State this year and the rest of the 1990's was forecast this week by agricultural experts at Cornell University in Ithaca and the State Department of Agriculture and Markets here.
''Agriculture will be in a strong position in 1990, better than in 1989, depending on the weather,'' said Richard T. McGuire, the State Commissioner of Agriculture and Markets.
He said farm production had been cut by two successive years of bad weather, a drought in 1988 and excesssive rainfall in 1989. If the weather is good in 1990, Mr. McGuire said, he expected production of almost all crops and farm income to increase. 
 
'Continued Improvement'
Speaking at a farm outlook conference in Ithaca, Bernard F. Staunton, professor of agricultural economics at the State College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at Cornell, said that farmers generally were entering the 1990's facing a much healthier agricultural economy.
''The debt crisis and inflated land values of the early 1980's are behind us,'' he said. ''Net farm income is up in 1989 compared to 1988 and expectations for the first half of 1990 are for continued improvement.''
Although official figures are not yet in, he estimated that net farm income in New York in 1989 rose about 12 percent above 1988, from $571 million to $640 million. New York has about 37,000 farms, according to the latest United States Census of Agriculture, with a gross farm income of $2.6 billion.
 
Dairy Farms Are Healthier
The major reason for the optimistic view was an improvement in the financial picture for New York's dairy farms, the largest economic segment of the state's agriculture.
New York, which is the third-leading dairy state in the nation behind Wisconsin and California, has about 13,000 dairy farms, with 800,000 cows. Last year, they produced about 11.25 billion pounds of milk, down 1.5 percent from the year before, which they sold for about $1.5 billion.
Milk production dropped, dairy experts said, because of poor forage caused by bad weather, a consequent drop in production per cow and a decrease in the number of cows.
With production decreasing in other states, too, a national shortage of milk followed, producing a sharp price rise.
Farm milk prices rose to a record level in 1989 and are expected to remain high in early 1990, the Cornell dairy experts said. In November, farmers in southern New York and northern New Jersey received $15.28 for each 100 pounds of milk (about 45 quarts) that they produced.
As a result, the retail milk price increased. In the New York metropolitan area the price of a gallon of milk rose to an all-time high of $2.53 in December, an increase of 20 cents since August.
 
More Milk Is Expected
The rise in prices, both at the farm and at retail, should end sometime early this year because of an anticipated increased supply of milk, the milk experts said.
''For 1990, a recovery in milk production is expected by everyone, but there is disagreement about when it will start and how big it will be,'' the Cornell farm economists said.
They estimated that production might rise by 1.5 percent, because of some increase in cow numbers and gains in production per cow, assuming a more normal growing season and a better supply of feed for the cows.
Mr. McGuire and the Cornell experts also agreed that 1990 would be a good year, weather permitting, for the state's apple and vegetable growers, for egg producers and for nursery operators growing bedding plants, potted plants and flowers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (84%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (84%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FORECASTS AGRICULTURAL INCOME (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); MILK (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); WEATHER (89%); DAIRY FARMING (89%); FOOD PRICES (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); DROUGHT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD RICHARD T MCGUIRE (65%); 



137 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 44, Column 2; Style Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Fashion;
Resort Wear: Beyond the Beach

BYLINE: By BERNADINE MORRIS

 BODY:
Although automobile sales and other parts of the economy are sluggish, fashion retailers are cheered by the response to resort fashions that began arriving in the stores last month.
''Selling is surprisingly strong,'' said Kalman Ruttenstein, senior vice president for fashion direction at Bloomingdale's. ''The clothes that are being bought will set the direction for fashion in the next six months.'' The emphasis is on designer names. ''Donna Karan is a phenomenon,'' said Andrew Basile, vice president and fashion director of Bergdorf Goodman. ''The customers come looking for her clothes, and the minute we get a delivery the styles are sold out. Our Michael Kors stock is depleted, and we've reordered. Chanel is sensational, and Isaac Mizrahi is hitting his stride.'' 
Helen O'Hagan, vice president and corporate public relations director of Saks Fifth Avenue, agreed. ''Designer sportswear is doing fabulously well, and the action everywhere is on better priced merchandise,'' she said.
 
Linen Is Back
Linen, which has not been spectacularly successful in the last few years, is back in favor among customers.
''People were turned off for a while because it wrinkles,'' Miss O'Hagan said, ''but they have come back to it because it is, after all, the coolest and most comfortable fabric for warm weather.''
Linen is an important fabric in the dresses that have captured shoppers' fancy in many stores. Every retailer has easy, short dresses in soft or bright colors that rank among the best sellers.
An even more dynamic fashion is shorts, ranging from brief to Bermuda-length and either sleekly fitted or cut with gentle fullness.
''Shorts are our strongest-selling category,'' Mr. Ruttenstein said. ''They include stretch styles like the ones bicycle messengers wear and graceful styles that are worn like suits.''
Mr. Basile reports that best-selling shorts at Bergdorf Goodman have carried diverse designer labels, including those of Ralph Lauren, Gianfranco Ferre, Michael Kors and Chanel.
During a recent selling trip to Saks Fifth Avenue's store at Bal Harbour, Fla., Isaac Mizrahi found that his best seller was a black crepe double-breasted shorts suit with satin revers. Women were buying it as a swingy evening outfit.
Suits are an important part of the resort selling picture at Bergdorf.
''Resort is not just beach and evening clothes any more,'' Mr. Basile explained. ''Some women spend a considerable length of time in the South, while others combine trips with business appointments so they need fairly formal lunch clothes.''
Accessories are selling well at Saks Fifth Avenue, especially gold metallic styles, including hats, belts, bags, and flat mesh or stripping sandals by Donna Karan.
 
A Jump on Spring Shopping
Not all the resort clothes and accessories are purchased to wear in the South. Many customers like to shop when the stores are less frenetic than they will be in warmer weather, while others want to be prepared for the first warm days. Still others plan to wear some styles, like crepe dresses, under their winter coats.
''I always buy my own summer clothes from the resort collections,'' Miss O'Hagan said. ''I never face a weekend from Memorial Day on without a new swimsuit.''
Among her first purchases this season are a striped navy T-shirt by Adrienne Vittadini at $35 and a navy and black striped pullover by Ralph Lauren at $65. She plans to wear the striped top tied around her neck like a scarf when she is not wearing it as a sweater.

GRAPHIC: Photos of fashions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (56%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); FABRICS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RESORTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); 

PERSON: MORRIS, BERNADINE RALPH LAUREN (58%); 



138 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 28, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: POP VIEW;
Do Songs About The World's Ills Do Any Good?

BYLINE: By Stephen Holden

 BODY:
Anyone who follows pop music's ongoing hit parade must have noticed the unprecedented convergence on the charts of hit singles with lyrics bearing social messages, about topics from homelessness to race relations to child abuse. In the national top 30 singles at year's end, no fewer than six songs took note of the world's ills.
The current rash of these songs is part of a movement that began five years ago with the all-star charity singles ''Do They Know It's Christmas'' and ''We Are the World'' and found its most eloquent personal expression last year in Tracy Chapman's ''Fast Car.'' If today's hits aren't actually raising money for worthy causes, many of them are created with the same good intentions. Yet there is something disquieting about a process that reduces human problems into neat little sound bites that cast a moral glow upon their creators. 
During the final weeks of 1989, America's No. 1 hit was Phil Collins's mournful, chiming ballad, ''Another Day in Paradise,'' which offers snapshots of homeless people pleading to pedestrians for attention and being ignored.
Mr. Collins's hit supplanted Billy Joel's semi-serious novelty, ''We Didn't Start the Fire,'' at the top of the chart. ''We Didn't Start the Fire,'' the Long Island rocker's first No. 1 hit in six years, is a clever pop-rap fusion that offers a chronological montage of names and historical buzzwords, beginning in 1949 with Harry S Truman and ending with this year's uprising in China and with the phenomenon Mr. Joel calls ''Rock and Roller Cola Wars.'' While the time span of the song implies that current events come out of historical processes, Mr. Joel offers no analysis or editorializing other than to throw up his hands at the sheer volume of it all.
The two hits have both yielded snappy music videos. In Mr. Collins's, alarming statistics about homelessness and poverty around the world are flashed onto the screen in bright white letters as the singer casts dark, meaningful glances into the camera. Mr. Joel's music video juxtaposes images of the singer in front of a raging fire with re-creations of an ''I Love Lucy''-style sitcom.
However clever they are, both leave one with unsettling intimations about the effects on people's lives of the sheer barrage of modern media. Contemporary pop and video are now so skillful at delivering information that induces a visceral response that the passive reception of the news is in danger of being confused with active involvement in social causes.
Of course, involvement begins with awareness, and these songs are nothing if not news-savvy. But, inevitably, the songs that call attention to these problems are part of a tidal wave of horrifying images that make the mere act of receiving them feel like an act of courage in itself. Could it be that socially conscious songs and music videos that call attention to problems might actually reinforce acquiescence to crises that seem too numerous and serious to be solved?
At the end of the year, the single most likely to wrest the No. 1 spot away from Mr. Collins was Janet Jackson's fast-climbing ''Rhythm Nation.'' A militantly utopian dance-floor exhortation, written by Ms. Jackson with her producers Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis, the song calls for racial harmony and cooperative struggle to create a better, stronger world.
New Kids on the Block's ''This One's for the Children'' echoed ''We Are the World'' in expressing a generalized concern for the world's hungry children. The Rolling Stones' ''Rock and a Hard Place'' ticked off a whole list of issues, among them pollution, world hunger and human rights. Without naming names, it also offered a veiled protest to United States involvement in Central American affairs. Aerosmith's lurid hard-rock ballad, ''Janie's Got a Gun'' tells of a girl who shoots her father to death after suffering through years of incestuous abuse.
Among the six singles, Mr. Collins's and Mr. Joel's hits are both the catchiest and the most revealing in their reflection of America's social mood at the end of the decade. Mr. Collins's hit describes the increasingly common experience of being approached on the street by a homeless person, studiously ignoring the plea for help and the attendant embarrassment. In the chorus, Mr. Collins comments: ''Oh think twice, it's another day for you and me in paradise.'' It conveys a complicated sequence of emotions: empathy, defensiveness, shame and and finally impotence.
But because Mr. Collins is one of pop music's Mr. Nice Guys, there is almost something reassuring about the record. The only advice the song offers to the listener who might be approached by a homeless person on the street is to ''think twice'' (in other words have a compassionate thought), and to count one's blessings.
Mr. Joel's hit evokes much the same feelings of detached interest and helplessness. The song is the aural equivalent of a video montage flashing the historical events in the lifetime of a prototypical baby boomer. In the breathless little merry-go-round chorus that punctuates the chronology, the singers insist that there's nothing they can do to change the course of events. ''We didn't start the fire/ It was always burning/ Since the world's been turning,'' they protest. ''We didn't start the fire/ No we didn't light it/ But we tried to fight it.''
Ultimately, both songs' points of view are essentially the same as that expressed in 1986 by Bruce Hornsby & the Range in ''The Way It Is,'' the last No. 1 hit with a strong social message. In that song, Mr. Hornsby lamented racial discrimination and the economic deprivation of African-Americans and commented: ''That's just the way it is/ Some things will never change/ That's just the way it is/ But don't you believe them.'' In the context of the record, the plea, ''but don't you believe them'' comes only as a wistful utopian afterthought.
While these hits suggest that the social consciousness of American pop is deepening, there are also signs that the mainstream pop audience will only embrace messages that don't demand a deep, personal involvement in social causes. In several cuts on his newest album, ''Freedom,'' Neil Young addresses homelessness and drug addiction. But instead of singing from the point of view of a concerned middle-class urbanite, he imagines himself inside the skins of disenfranchised street people, and his tone is scarily cantankerous.
Jackson Browne's recent album ''World in Motion,'' contains some of the most stirring music of his career, but it makes no bones about the fact that the only way things can change is by people getting involved in political and social action programs. A number of the songs are impassioned sermons intended to prick the conscience.
Neither ''Freedom,'' which has reaped more critical acclaim than any of Mr. Young's albums in a decade, nor ''World in Motion'' has been welcomed by the kind of mass audience that made ''Another Day in Paradise'' and ''We Didn't Start the Fire'' instant successes. They demand depth of identification and a commitment to work for social change that may be just too upsetting for most people to want to consider.

GRAPHIC: Phil Collins (Larry Busacca/Retna); Billy Joel (Gary Gershoff/Retna)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (84%); CHRISTMAS (73%); RAP MUSIC (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); RACE & RACISM (72%); 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN; COLLINS, PHIL; JOEL, BILLY MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



139 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2108 words

HEADLINE: For Airlines, a Heated Push Into the Pacific Rim

BYLINE: By ERIC WEINER

 BODY:
A few years ago, Jerry Connelly, a fashion executive in New York who flies regularly to the Far East, booked his flights to cities like Hong Kong a just few days ahead of time. But no more. ''Now you need at least a week or two's notice,'' he said. ''Sometimes I can't even get a seat then.''
Mr. Connelly's frustration is a sign of the airline industry's Asian bonanza. Spurred by the blossoming economies and relaxed travel policies in countries like Japan, Taiwan, South Korea and Singapore, air travel to and from Asia is booming and airlines are clamoring to grab a chunk of the fastest-growing market in the world. ''United States carriers are gaga about the Asian market,'' said John Ash, managing director of Global Aviation, a consulting firm in Washington. ''Everybody wants a piece of it.'' But it won't come easily. Certain Asian countries like Japan do not have open-sky policies and therefore prohibit carriers from flying into their airports at will. And airports are already congested, especially in travel-crazed Japan. While new long-range jets could help alleviate overcrowding by bypassing current stopovers, production of these planes has been hamstrung by labor strikes. What is more, Asian airlines, with their lower labor costs and reputation for attentive service, are proving to be tough competitors. 
And rivalries in the Far East among American carriers are also expected to heat up. Until recently, Asia was the domain of two United States lines: Northwest Airlines and United Air Lines. But others, like American, Delta and Continental, have gained a toehold in the region in recent years. Northwest now commands only 42 percent, and United 29 percent, of the travel in the Pacific handled by American carriers.
The newcomers, dividing the remaining 29 percent of that travel, are primed to expand. ''The American carriers are chafing at the bit, wishing they could fly from, say, Chicago to Tokyo,'' said Mary Hunt, editor of Business Traveler International.
 
New Routes Ahead
 An agreement signed in November by the United States and Japan could enable more of them to establish routes into Tokyo, the gateway to the Pacific rim.
 Last Thursday, Washington formally opened bidding for six routes provided for under the accord, which could increase air service between the two nations by 30 percent. Secretary of Transportation Samuel K. Skinner called the pact ''the most dramatic expansion of air services to Japan since the original bilateral agreement was signed in 1952.''
But Northwest and United are the least likely of the American carriers to win rights to the new routes. To stimulate competition, the Transportation Department said it is more inclined to award those routes to carriers that currently have less of a Pacific presence.
The two carriers still rely heavily on that traffic. Pacific flights now account for more than half of Northwest's revenues, and for 30 percent of United's. While United's domestic traffic has dropped slightly, its Pacific traffic soared nearly 24 percent over the last year.
United made its big push into the Pacific in 1985 with its $750 million purchase of Pan American World Airways's extensive Pacific routes - one of the largest acquisitions of such a network in the industry and, in retrospect, one of the shrewdest. ''At least initially, there will be enough room for everybody,'' said Raymond Neidl, an analyst with Dillon, Reed. ''But the competition will begin to erode their market share.''
The Pacific routes are rich with business travelers and, until recently, relatively competition-free. In general, long flights are more profitable for airlines than short hops, since they do not require as many employees on the ground. And in the Pacific, airlines need not discount as many seats as they do on European flights.
Indeed, keeping planes filled is hardly a problem. Traffic between North America and Asia is expected to grow at about 10 percent annually for at least the next decade, about twice as fast as the rate within the United States. And cargo traffic there is also on the rise. ''It's the growth market for the 1990's,'' said Kevin Murphy, an analyst with Morgan Stanley.
The Japanese, riding a strong yen, are leading the boom. In 1986, 5.5 million Japanese traveled abroad. In 1989, it was 10 million.
The Koreans and Taiwanese are also traveling more. Last year Korea relaxed age restrictions on travel for its citizens, who previously had to be 50 years or older to travel freely. The threshold age was lowered to 30 in 1987 and the restriction was lifted altogether last year. As a result, the number of Koreans traveling abroad is expected to double this year. Likewise, the number of Taiwanese travelers is expected to double to four million people by the decade's end. ''Suddenly there's a new lode of people who can afford air travel,'' said Michael Hewitt, secretary general of the Orient Airlines Association in Manila.
The one Asian country where the airlines are not deploying more airplanes is mainland China. Since the Tiananmen Square uprising in May, Northwest has cut its flights from Osaka to Shanghai to one a week, from two.
But the surge in travel has clogged the Pacific airways and even caused shortages of hotel rooms in certain cities like Bangkok. Load factors, or the percentage of seats filled, on Pacific routes now average 70 percent or better, compared with 64 percent in the United States. And Asia, as an archipelago, has no land-transportation alternatives linking its countries to offer relief.
 
Clogged Airports
 The International Air Transport Association has flagged airports in Hong Kong, Tokyo, Bombay and Sydney as the region's most congested. ''The capacity of airports is being stretched to the limits,'' said Ken Chamberlain, executive vice president of the Pacific Asia Travel Association. ''Travel is an increasingly difficult experience.''
''Flights for the last year were chock-a-block,'' said Richard Chao, owner of Taiwan Travel, a travel agency in Taipei. ''The public isn't happy with the airline situation here. There isn't much flexibility.''
To relieve congestion, Hong Kong is building a new $5 billion airport to replace Kai Tak International, which, with its single runway surrounded by mountains, is dreaded by pilots and passengers. Meanwhile, Japan is building a new airport near Osaka on a man-made island - well clear of communities that have insisted on an 8:30 P.M. curfew at the current airport.
But the biggest bottleneck in Asia is Tokyo's Narita Airport. With only one runway, it is already operating 40 percent over its capacity of 13 million passengers a year. An attempt to build more runways has run headlong into fierce opposition from local farmers and other landowners.
 
Alternative Gateways
 Given this congestion, airlines are looking for alternatives gateways to the Pacific. Both United and Northwest, for instance, are developing Seoul as a ''mini hub'' for the region.
 And many carriers have placed orders for a new, extra-long-range jumbo jet, the Boeing 747-400, that could enable them to fly nonstop from the United States to Seoul or Bangkok with a full passenger load. United, for one, has 15 747-400's on order, all of which will be deployed on the Pacific routes.
The trouble is, a backlog of orders and an eight-week strike at Boeing has stalled delivery of the jets to many airlines and forced them to delay their expansion plans. Japan Airlines has delayed its expansion until 1991 as it awaits delivery of 15 Boeing jumbo jets, a company spokesman said.
Unlike the American and European air-travel markets, where battles are fought with super-saver fares and bonus mileage, the contest for the Pacific market is being waged with fine china and after-dinner drinks. Asian carriers like Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific have a reputation for pampering their passengers to extremes unheard of in the United States. ''There's no way a Western carrier can compete with an Asian one on service,'' said Mr. Starkman, the analyst.
But American carriers are trying. At a cost of $45 million, United is revamping the business-class sections on its 747's and DC-10's, adding wider seats and more flight attendants. On occasion, it also dispatches an employee to fly on a rival's flight to report on the quality of service. ''These are among the best airlines in the world'' said William C. Speicher, senior vice president of Pacific marketing for United. ''Its tough competition. There's no doubt about it.''
Northwest, under its new owner, hotelier Alfred Checchi, is attempting to shift its image as a discount airline. It recently began an advertising campaign in America that reminds potential passengers that telephones are pink in Hong Kong and that one shouldn't slurp noodles in Taiwan. And the airline, which has been flying the Pacific routes for 42 years, now offers such ammenities as concierge service at the airport and in-flight ice cream sundaes. ''We could never do something like this between Minneapolis and Chicago,'' said Robert Gibbons, a company spokesman. ''When you have passengers for 8 to 14 hours, you can pamper them.''
The airlines are emphasizing service on their Asian flights because of the high percentage of business travelers, who generally pay more for their tickets and are most likely to bring repeat business.
For instance, the 747's that Japan Air Line flies between New York and Tokyo are outfitted with 196 first-class and business-class seats and only 60 coach. Pacific flights are popular with business executives in part because some employers prohibit business-class travel across the Atlantic but permit it for the longer transPacific flights.
In assimilating to Asian culture, American airlines have made some blunders. When United began its concierge service in Tokyo, it identified its employees by having them wear white carnations. In Japan, the color symbolizes death and mourning. United switched to red.
And American carriers may not have bargained for such tough competition. Asian carriers bring more than their sparkling service. They bring impressive bankrolls. Japan Airlines, which was privatized in 1987, is investing $6.1 billion in new planes, maintenance facilities and computer reservation equipment. All Nippon Airlines, Japan's largest domestic airline, has begun to fly to Los Angeles and Washington, and is gearing up for a major expansion into the United States.
To compete for American passengers looking to fly to the Far East, Asian carriers are also beginning to match the Americans' most potent marketing tool - frequent-flier programs. For instance, passengers on Philippine airlines can earn a free trip after racking up 30,000 miles - only three round trips to the United States. American carriers require more than double that travel for a free trip.
To woo travel agents, the Asians pay a handsome 26 percent commission on flights to and from the Far East - a move that United and Northwest have followed. Travel agents earn about 10 percent on American business.
Of course, American airlines still have one critical advantage with consumers: their strong domestic feeder systems. Foreign airlines are prohibitted from flying between two American cities.
The coming battle for the Asian and American carriers is for control of the computer reservation systems being developed in the Far East. About two-thirds of the airline tickets sold for transPacific flights are purchased in Asia. But fewer travel agencies use computer reservations systems there than in the United States. The airlines that succeed in linking up with the new systems will go a long way toward determining the long-term survivors. ''The computer systems are up for grabs,'' Mr. Speicher said. ''There aren't real strong alliances in one camp or another.''
For now, thought, attention is focused on the new flights between Tokyo and America, which are scheduled to begin in October. The six new routes could mean 125 more flights a week. Virtually every major American carrier has applied for the right to fly one of the routes. Officials in cities like Houston, Denver, Phoenix and Miami have also aggressively lobbied Washington for airline service from their communities to Asia.
Regardless of who wins the new routes, however, one thing is unlikely to change. In terms of air travel, the United States will continue to have a trade surplus with Japan. ''This is a wonderful aberration in the U.S. and Japan trade picture,'' said Jeffrey Shane the Transportation Department official who was the architect of the recent agreement with Japan.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: percent change in number of passengers from previous year, for U.S.-Far East traffic for all carriers and for all traffic for U.S. carriers, 1985-1989* (*For U.S.-Far East traffic, first five months of 1989 compared with first five months of 1988. For U.S. carriers, first 11 months of 1989 compared with first 11 months of 1988) (Source: Global Aviation); pie chart of percentage of Pacfic market for U.S airlines during first seven months (Source: Dept. of Transportation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIR SERVICE (89%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); STRIKES (65%); 

PERSON: WEINER, ERIC



140 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Prospects;
Housing Bounces Back

BYLINE: By JOEL KURTZMAN

 BODY:
Sales of new homes rose by 9.6 percent in November, the biggest jump in four months, according to the Commerce Department last week. The Northeast and Middle West posted the strongest gains. After months of soft prices and slow sales, do the November figures signal an end to the housing slump? Four experts give their views.
 
Ara K. Hovnanian
President, K. Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., Red Bank, N.J.
 There seems to be a little more activity in the housing market because seller prices are coming into line and developers' prices are too. I think we have probably hit bottom. I don't know if we can say the market is on its way up yet, but buyers are beginning to realize there are real deals out there. 
For the first half of this year we expect the current situation to remain without much change. However, we believe that when the market does begin to recover, particularly in the Northeast and California, there will be a steady upward ratcheting of prices. I don't know if the recovery will happen in 6, 2, or 12 months. But once it happens, it will turn rapidly and we will see a real strong market. Real estate is cyclical. When people start selling, they also start buying and then the market accelerates.
 
Lyle E. Gramley
Chief economist, Mortgage Bankers Association, Washington.
 It would be a mistake to make too much out of this number. The November figures are in part a consequence of the earthquake in California. But even so, the picture for new-home sales is improving modestly.
Those stories about an impending collapse of the residential real estate market were overblown. An impending collapse was wrong and that's what this upturn tells us. No one doubts that the housing market is different from what it was a decade ago. Prices are not rising as fast, the demographics are different, rental space was overbuilt and housing is now responding differently to lower interest rates.
If interest rates continue to move down, as I think they will, then there will be further improvement. But the current 710,000 annual rate for new-home sales is higher than can be sustained.
 
David F. Seiders
Chief economist, National Association of Homebuilders, Washington.
 We are looking for a flat period in all of single-family housing through the middle of this year and then a gradual improvement. Those new-home sales figures do jog around a bit. But all of the single housing numbers for November were solid.
The one place where the numbers signal something really fundamental is the Northeast. We have been forecasting a bottoming out in that market and a resurgence in the Northeast in housing starts, new sales and sales of existing homes. We see confirmation now that it has bottomed out and we're looking for a gradual upturn throughout the year and into 1991 in that market.
 
Francis Schott
Chief economist, Equitable Life Assurance Society.
 This upturn in housing has been part of my forecast and it's why I don't think we'll have a recession. A decline in mortgage rates has happened - so you can get a fixed-rate mortgage below 10 percent - and it created the turnaround. Housing starts looked poor before the Fed eased. There was pent-up demand as people adjusted to higher rates and the lower rates now are making a difference.
I am convinced that interest rates will go down further until mid-1990. I think the signs are clear that new home starts will be at the 1.5 million rate, seasonably adjusted, for most of 1990 with a possibility of going even higher. In the fourth quarter of 1989, we had the bottoming out of new-home sales.
The downward adjustment with rising interest rates has ended. The market won't be buoyant, but it will have stability with a little updrift through 1990.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (84%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FORECASTS REAL ESTATE (91%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (79%); SALES & SELLING (79%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: KURTZMAN, JOEL; HOVNANIAN, ARA K; GRAMLEY, LYLE E; SEIDERS, DAVID F; SCHOTT, FRANCIS ARA K HOVNANIAN (71%); 



141 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1715 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds Turn to the Hard Sell

BYLINE: By STUART MIEHER; Stuart Mieher writes about finance from Boston, where he is a student at the Harvard Business School.

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
Time was when the managers of the Janus Capital mutual fund group paid scant attention to their customers. Cash-flow multiples and moving averages concerned them far more. But faced with persistent redemptions, Janus concluded in 1987 that performance alone wasn't enough. The marketing specialists came in, the advertising budget went up, and in 1989 the company's accounts doubled.
In the vicious competition for investor dollars, managers of the nation's 350-odd mutual fund companies are learning to be salesman. The companies are designing funds for every taste and installing banks of telephones and computers to improve customer service. Many are spending lavishly on advertising. ''In this commodity environment, it becomes important to let people do business the way they want, not the way you want,'' said Michael J. Hines, vice president of marketing at Fidelity Investments, the nation's largest fund operator.
Hype is nothing new to an industry that is the intermediary between Wall Street and 20 million United States households. An industry catch phrase holds that funds are sold, not bought. But increasingly, fund companies are adopting strategies much like those of packaged-goods marketers. The weapons in this new struggle are market research and product positioning instead of hot trading strategies. Investors should benefit from better service, lower costs and a smorgasbord of new funds. Large fund companies stand to gain if smaller competitors can't make the investments required. 
But some attack the increased emphasis on marketing. ''This is gimmickry,'' said Tyler Jenks, research director at the Boston brokerage of Kanon Bloch Carre & Company. Mr. Jenks worries that investors are increasingly selecting funds based on marketing flair and the cheerfulness of telephone clerks rather than on safety and long-term returns. Increasing volatility in financial markets and these ''revved-up marketing teams,'' he said, are ''setting the industry and investors up for a big fall.''
The march toward marketing is not universal; some companies would rather minimize operating costs. And improving mutual fund sales amid a reviving stock market may postpone the need for change.
Yet strategies driven by marketing are taking root in unlikely places. Consider Janus Capital, a small Denver-based fund group with $1.7 billion in assets. When it was founded in 1969, Janus was dominated by numbers specialists. ''The firm had a philosophy,'' said Jack Thompson, executive vice president, ''that all you needed to sell fund shares was a set of good performance numbers.''
But service problems and redemptions caught up with Janus, so that by 1987 the company began an overhaul. It added experts in public relations. It beefed up service by firing the outside firm that handled its back-office needs and bringing these functions in-house. It started programs for small investors and began to advertise consistently.
Even the financial pros became marketers. Last Oct. 13, when the Dow plunged 191 points, James Craig, manager of two of Janus's four fund portfolios, took to the phone to calm investors' fears. Helped by top performance ratings for several of its funds, sales of fund shares, net of redemptions, totaled about $360 million last year, up from a deficit of $60 million in 1988.
Few companies felt they needed nimble marketing during the bull market of the mid-1980's. Assets under management grew an average of 25 percent annually, from $241 billion at the beginning of 1982 to $848 billion at the market's peak in August of 1987.
Sales net of redemptions hit a torrid $190 billion in 1986. Virtually all the growth occurred in stocks and long-term bond funds, whose fees average two to three times those of the money market funds.
The boom ended with the stock market's collapse in October 1987. Since then, the industry's assets have grown at a mere 13 percent annually, and net sales slowed to $7 billion in 1988. Stock and bond funds have grown even more slowly. Through the first 11 months of 1989, the industry's sales recovered to $119 billion, but 77 percent went into money market accounts.
The boom may yet revive. Buoyed by a healthy stock market, sales of stock and bond funds in November reached $5.1 billion, a post-crash record, though still below the levels of 1987. But fund operators have discovered they can't rely too much on performance to draw investors.
''The traditional method of selling product has been to say, 'We can provide higher returns than the next guy,' '' said Louis Harvey, president of Dalbar Financial Services, a Boston research company. ''But no one is on top all the time.'' Fidelity has been the industry's marketing pioneer since the early 1970's. It advertises with abandon. For money market accounts, it was the first to let people write checks. Fidelity added innovations like automated telephone ordering, round-the-clock phone service and investor centers, 55 retail outlets that each combine the solid look of a bank branch with the theatricality of a trading floor.
On big days for the market, people would stare at the electronic ticker in the front window of the Investor Center near Fidelity's downtown Boston headquarters, clustering so thickly that they spilled onto the street. Interest in the ticker has waned, but Fidelity has prospered. Its assets now stand at $110 billion, up from $85 billion before the 1987 crash.
These days, more fund groups act like Fidelity. A recent survey found that mutual funds spent 50 percent more on advertising in the first six months of 1989 than in the comparable period in 1988 - but less than in 1987, when higher sales could finance heavier advertising.
The Dreyfus Service Corporation this year increased advertising by $15 million, to $40 million. Many of the ads say little about performance but focus instead on investor needs, like saving for the children's college education.
Fund companies are also offering scores of new products, including many that some critics say the public could do without. The industry began 1989 with 2,718 funds, and added another 280 by the end of November. ''Two out of three of the funds that are out there shouldn't be,'' said Mr. Jenks of Kanon Bloch.
Some companies are following the lead of packaged-goods marketers by building products around types of investors - like those receiving lump-sum distributions from pension plans - rather than types of investments. Many fund marketers scoff at such tactics. ''If you roll out a fund for every group, it reaches a point where it's just too cumbersome and expensive,'' said Fidelity's Mr. Hines. Yet Fidelity itself has 144 funds. Even tiny Janus is adding two funds.
The goal: Keep investors within the family of funds. As Mr. Hines said: ''Investors want to simplify who they do business with. If you're a large company, you're more likely to have the fund the investor's interested in.'' Fidelity now is taking the approach a step further, selling other companies' funds and including them on monthly statements.
Not all marketing moves are so sophisticated. Fidelity and Dreyfus have resorted to old-fashioned price cutting, like a couple of corner gasoline stations. Last year, both opened money-market funds with reduced management fees and therefore higher yields. Fidelity's Spartan Fund brought in $5.4 billion in assets by December, while Dreyfus's Worldwide Dollar Fund had $4.3 billion.
Both companies figure most of the cash will stay within the family even after fees go up. It is an expensive bet: Thomas Ackerman, an analyst at Advest Inc., said absorbing the fees on Worldwide Dollar is draining Dreyfus's earnings at an annual rate of 75 cents a share.
Companies are also competing in service. American Capital Management and Research Inc. of Houston saw its sales lag in the mid-1980's amid a snarl of back-office problems. Don McMullen, a veteran of Pittsburgh's Mellon Bank, was hired in November 1987 to revamp marketing and service. ''I run both marketing and service because, when it's all said and done, the quality of your service has a lot to say in how well your product sells,'' Mr. McMullen said. The improvements - new training for telephone clerks, an automated telephone order system and computer equipment for clerks to call up customers' records quickly - cost about $1 million for equipment alone.
Nor has Fidelity been sitting still. It spent the last two years increasing telephone capacity and improving its automated services. During last October's market slide, customers seldom got the busy signal, and redemptions ran at less than a third the level of the 1987 crash. Last fall Fidelity announced plans to offer customers a package to handle mutual fund transactions over Nintendo video game systems.
Such investments in marketing have increased the benefits of bigness. Advertising, sophisticated back-office systems and expanding fund families all offer significant economies of scale. Price cutting as practiced by Dreyfus and Fidelity requires big cash reserves. Finally, a downturn in the stock and bond markets could crimp sales of mutual funds and push less-efficient companies into the red.
A logical result would be consolidation. But the market's recovery since 1987 has helped keep most fund operators profitable and independent. And many, including Fidelity, remain private.
A few mergers, like the Transamerica Corporation's purchase of the Criterion Group for $95 million, have been offset by spinoffs, like the Aetna Life and Casualty Company's sale of its Federated Investors unit to its managers for $345 million.
According to Strategic Insight, a mutual fund research and consulting company, the top 10 companies in 1989 held 48.6 percent of the industry's assets, just a tenth of a point above their share four years earlier.
Even so, today's new marketing environment ''could pose problems down the road for small operators,'' as Mr. Thompson put it.
Janus already has a parent with deep pockets. In 1984, its founders sold 80 percent of the firm to Kansas City Southern Industries Inc., a railroad holding company. Those deep pockets may come in handy. Mr. Thompson said, ''A company our size can't do everything Fidelity does, but we've had to stay in the same ball park.''

GRAPHIC: Graph mutual fund sales minus redemptions, by type of fund, 1980-1989* (*1989 through November) (Source: Investment Company Institute) (pg. 1); PHOTO: Fidelity Investments captures the interest of passers-by. (NYT/Jim Bourg) (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (98%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (98%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (98%); KANON BLOCH CARRE & CO INC (91%); FMR CORP (90%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CORPORATE POSITIONING (77%); BONDS (76%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PACKAGED GOODS (72%); 

PERSON: MIEHER, STUART



142 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3598 words

HEADLINE: To the Brink and Back in Real Estate

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

DATELINE: IRVING, Tex.

 BODY:
Back in the late 1960's, most people saw nothing more than cattle and horses rambling over the rolling prairie northwest of Dallas. Ben Carpenter saw the community of the future. So, in 1969, he set about building it.
He envisioned transforming his cattle ranch into one of the most coveted planned developments in the country, a place that oozed quality with granite curbs and harmonious architecture set amid pristine landscape. In the downtown, he imagined an elevated people mover and a canal system with mahogany water taxis plowing through the currents.
Before too long, office buildings and houses began sprouting up. People moved in, some of them into breathtaking homes costing $3 million. The water taxis came. Organizations like the Boy Scouts of America relocated their national headquarters there and others like Allstate Insurance, Caltex, Southwestern Bell, Neiman-Marcus and two dozen Japanese companies took space. Sure enough, Las Colinas, as the development was called, became just about the hottest corporate relocation destination in the country. The place was nifty enough that TV's ''Dallas'' even liked to shoot some of its footage there. 
Then the sun went away. The crash of the Dallas real estate market in 1986 caught Las Colinas suffocating in debt. As late as the middle of last year, it looked as if Ben Carpenter's dream, less than half finished, was ready to implode. In many respects, the tribulations of Las Colinas were all too symptomatic of the haywire, borrow-and-build-anything real estate market of the Southwest.
But Las Colinas got lucky. Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, a big insurer in New York, and JMB Realty, a Chicago-based real estate operation, rode in to restructure much of the debt. Just in the last year, the GTE Corporation agreed to put the headquarters for its regional phone companies in Las Colinas. And in late October, in the biggest boost yet, the Exxon Corporation consented to buy 132 acres of land crowded with mesquite trees where it will move its corporate headquarters from New York City.
The comeback of Las Colinas is a tribute to the continuing appeal of Mr. Carpenter's dream. In a larger sense, the revival perhaps signifies a turning point in the protracted Texas slump. But the rise and fall and rise again of Las Colinas is also a story - albeit a vastly more complex one than most - of what it takes to rescue a foundering project once the buyers of land go away and the creditors are pounding on the door.
When he was young, life was pretty sugary for Ben Carpenter. His family, involved in the cattle business since 1877, was prospering in ranching, insurance and real estate. Back in 1928, Ben Carpenter's father acquired about 200 acres in Irving in the middle of what is now Las Colinas and named it Hackberry Creek Ranch, and this became the family home. He was then an executive of the Texas Power and Light Company and later became chairman of the Southland Life Insurance Company.
When his father died in 1959, Ben Carpenter followed him as Southland's chairman. The younger Carpenter, along with his brother-in-law, Dan Williams, began adding acreage to the Hackberry ranch. At the same time, Mr. Carpenter was dabbling in real estate development through a family business eventually known as the Southland Financial Company (unrelated to the Southland Corporation that runs the 7-11 stores). In time, it would merge with the insurance company and go public in 1971.
By the late 1960's, land values and taxes had risen so sharply that the ranch was struggling to meet the higher assessments. But then opportunity came knocking in the loudest possible way. It was announced that property was being assembled within a few miles of the ranch for a huge new airport, the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, which would open in 1973. With streams of planes setting down just miles away, the ranchland would be ideal for both commercial and residential development.
''I couldn't afford to keep running it as a cattle ranch,'' said Mr. Carpenter, a slight, chipper man with a homespun demeanor. ''I had to either sell it or develop it. When I thought about it, I realized, here was an opportunity from scratch to plan the best possible use of a piece of property on a large scale. Very few opportunities like this arise. Why let it go?''
 
Enter the Raiders
 So, as simple as that, Ben Carpenter decided to get the bulldozers going. As Las Colinas (which means ''the hills'') began taking shape, however, the development's parent company started to attract some rather unwelcome interest.
In the mid-1970's, for example, Saul Steinberg, the flamboyant financier, bought a stake of close to 5 percent in Southland, and after some give and take, the company bought the stock back at a profit for Mr. Steinberg. Fretting more and more about possible raiders, Mr. Carpenter eventually attempted to take the company private in late 1984.
However, Ivan Boesky - the notorious arbitrager jailed for securities violations unrelated to Southland - began snapping up Southland stock. Craig Hall, a Dallas real estate investor, got his wallet out, too. The purchases shoved the price up so much that Mr. Carpenter scrapped his plan. Southland wound up buying back the stake Mr. Hall acquired (Mr. Boesky clung to his) to solidify the Carpenter family's control.
Meanwhile, the company was spending pretty heavily. It bought 1,280 acres of land to add to Las Colinas in 1985 and 1986 at peak prices, thus tacking on $210 million of debt.
It was hard not to spend. Bankers and investors were throwing money at developers as if it stung if they held it themselves. Don't worry, the investors would more or less say. Pay it back when you can.
Two major ''junk bond'' financings, handled by Michael Milken's famous junk bond department at Drexel Burnham, were issued in 1985 and 1986 to pay for the land and to gain working capital. One was a private offering of $150 million, in which the two largest investors were the now troubled Southmark Corporation, a real estate and financial services concern, and the First Executive Corporation, an insurance company. The other was a public debt issue of $200 million, in which the Kemper Investors Life Insurance Company had a sizable stake.
Heavy debt - who was to worry? Though there were some signs that the Dallas economy was beginning to sputter, land sales at Las Colinas remained strong, growing to a peak of $127 million in 1984 and finishing at a healthy $96 million in 1985.
 
The Bottom Falls Out
 But once 1986 rolled around, it was obvious that Dallas was in pitiful shape. The office vacancy rate shot up to more than 30 percent, and some entire buildings were occupied only by insects and mice. Substantial financing, of course, had come from savings and loan institutions, which emerged as major players in commercial lending in 1984 and 1985, though no significant savings-and-loan financings were done at Las Colinas.
With scads of space around, prices tumbled. The raw land market almost stopped dead. For Las Colinas, land sales in 1986 collapsed to just $22.4 million. (They would be $39 million in 1987 and $29 million in 1988.) Southland had upward of $500 million in debt strapped to raw land, most of it short term. At this point, Southland had sold off its insurance unit, and was dependent on the dwindling land sales for most of its cash flow.
By late 1986, Ben Carpenter's health began to falter (he had had seven heart-bypass operations by then), and he stepped down to allow his son, John, to take over as chief executive. Wishing to put his affairs in order, Ben Carpenter tried to sell the company, 40 percent of which was owned by the Carpenter family. But there were no takers.
A suffocating depression hung over the company. The debt was like a time bomb. ''This was the point when Texas was getting the spigot turned off on it,'' said John Carpenter. ''Nobody wanted to touch Texas.''
The Carpenters decided to speak to Teachers. It made some sense. After all, Teachers had financed several Las Colinas properties and knew the land; besides, Teachers had been conservative in its investments at a time when others were out on limbs hanging by their teeth. It hadn't been battered and bruised by the Southwest, but was sniffing around for big opportunities.
Thus, in the summer of 1987, the Carpenters approached Teachers with one question on their minds: Was there something Teachers could do?
Sympathetic as it was, the insurance company was dubious. This was an atypical request for Teachers. For one thing, to go around and ask lenders to accept less favorable refinancing was not something it felt comfortable doing. After all, its role in life was to be a lender. Alice Connell, a mortgage officer at Teachers, summed up the company's feeling by telling the Carpenters: ''We don't know if we could get out of the blocks on this one.''
Returning to Texas, Southland managed to conclude a deal in the fall of 1987 with the Lincoln Property Company, a national development organization. Lincoln agreed to supply Southland with $50 million and try to restructure its debt in return for a 20 percent stake in Las Colinas. But the existing creditors hated the deal, and it soon collapsed.
 
A Second Chance
The Carpenters cultivated others, including a few Japanese investors. Interest was dim. Finally, at the urging of Peter Gevalt, the managing director of Wells Hill Partners, a New York investment banker and broker that was trying to help the Carpenters solve their problems, they called Teachers once again. At this juncture, with Southland in flames, Teachers seemed the only alternative to bankruptcy.
In December 1987, a luncheon meeting between the Carpenters and some Teachers executives was held near Teachers' Manhattan headquarters. This time the importunings of the Carpenters worked.
At length, Teachers said it would attempt a restructuring under which the shareholders and many of the creditors would in effect be bought out and Southland would be replaced by a partnership. It was reckoned that Teachers would need to chip in something on the order of $250 million. It would then be in partnership with the Carpenters. But it wanted a third party involved, especially since Teachers knew nothing about buying up junk debt, and recruited JMB Realty, which knew a lot about junk debt and was one of the largest players in the real estate business. H. Patrick Hackett, JMB's senior vice president, became its representative in the deal.
In the early part of 1988, agreement was reached among the partners, under which the Carpenters would own 60 percent of what had been Southland, Teachers would have 22 percent and JMB would hold 18 percent. Policy would be set by a small executive committee: John and Ben Carpenter, Ms. Connell and Mr. Hackett, who got two votes.
Stockholders, whose shares tumbled as low as 50 cents from nearly $40, would ultimately get $2 a share (except for the Carpenters, who got notes that became part of the partnership's capital). The whole transaction was referred to by the partners as something highly unusual, a management-led leveraged buyout of a virtually bankrupt company.
For it to succeed, a horde of creditors had to accept less money than they had contracted to get. The partnership wanted to pay on the order of 50 cents to nearly 90 cents on the dollar, depending on the particular debt, and to get there it figured it would have to do a lot of horse trading. There were a half-dozen creditor groups for the raw land and more than 30 for income-producing properties.
When Alice Connell outlined the proposal to the board of Teachers, she mentioned that her best guess on the likelihood of the deal succeeding was 20 percent. Pat Hackett was more optimistic; he gave it a 25 percent shot.
 
The Moment of Truth
 Imagine the scene. Galloping in as the white knight was not some vulture fund but one of the most conservative of real estate lenders. Pitted against it was a motley group that included some extremely cantankerous creditors. As Ms. Connell once put it: ''This was the sort of situation where everything was fine as long as the music played. If the record skipped, however, you saw the dark side of securitized real estate. You got to see people who didn't know if it was Irving or Irvine or Norman, Texas. You were not talking with people who knew the business.''
On June 28, 1988, at the Sheraton Hotel in downtown Dallas, a so-called tent meeting was held with all the creditors to announce the plans. Some of the creditors were extremely irritated; their blood pressure was not helped by the fact that many hadn't got a single interest payment in more than a year.
Nevertheless, Teachers and the Carpenters figured the creditor talks just might pay off after a few months at the most. After all, there were some promising signs. For instance, Pat Hackett discovered that the chief negotiator for the Royal Bank of Canada, one of the creditors for the land, was his best friend from high school.
But once the talks started in earnest, the hard truth sank in. They might take an eternity. For instance, Pat Hackett's best friend proved to be a crafty bargainer.
''We thought because of the desperate shape of the Dallas real estate market, the creditors would welcome Teachers,'' Ms. Connell said. ''Nothing could have been further from the truth. I mean, some of the creditors had honed the act of brinkmanship to a fine art.''
A regular and rather irritating backdrop to the negotiations was the periodic posting of foreclosure notices by one or another of the creditors. The first arrived in November 1988. In Texas, foreclosure notices must be posted on the first Tuesday of a month; every time the first Tuesday approached, the members of the partnership began to get a sick feeling in their stomach.
Some talks proceeded with pleasing enough civility, but in meetings with the more obstreperous creditors, tempers ran short. ''I can't convey the embattled nature of these discussions,'' Ms. Connell would say later. ''It was night and day and 100 crises.''
The creditors holding the $150 million in notes from the private placement turned out to be perhaps the most worrisome group. This group, which came to be known as the 150's, was vital to the restructuring, since it held delectable collateral: 700 acres of prime land. The group posted a foreclosure notice early in the going, and in the ensuing months frequently renewed its intention to foreclose. Although the partnership and the 150's came to basic terms fairly early in the going, the deal had a time limit to it, and when other creditor negotiations failed to be completed by the deadline, a whole new round of bargaining was triggered.
''I think the deal we settled on we could have had a year and a half earlier,'' said Keenan Woolens, who did some of the negotiating for the Columbia Savings and Loan Association, one of the investors in the notes. ''A lot of creditors had hard heads and it took a while for them to realize this was the best we could do.''
During one tempestuous session, when the two sides were $10 million apart, a creditor representative outlined a plan under which, among other things, Wells Hill would forgo some money, Teachers would put up a bit more, the Carpenters would sacrifice a little equity and, voila, the creditors would get an extra $10 million. After listening to the proposal with her temperature rising beyond measurement, Alice Connell announced, ''If I found $10 million lying on the street, I wouldn't push it across to you.''
It was O.K. to get miffed, but the Carpenters felt they could not let the group carry out the foreclosure. If it seemed they were seriously going to, Southland aimed to file for bankruptcy first, thus forestalling the creditors from taking possession of the land.
On several occasions, the courthouse steps in Dallas became roosting places for Southland lawyers and lawyers from the 150 group. Hugging walkie-talkies or cellular car phones, they were poised to sprint to their respective filing places as soon as they heard word of an irreparable breakdown in the talks. The whole matter, at these moments, seemed to boil down to which side had the fleetest short-distance runners.
In any event, by May 1989 Teachers had agreed to invest $290 million in the deal. Then, as Ms. Connell put it, ''We took our hands out of our pockets and said no more.''
But still more was wanted. And on the first Monday evening of May, hours before foreclosure day, the 150's seemed like they had had it. As Rob Goodman, head of a consulting group called the Goodtab Corporation, who did much of the bargaining for First Executive, remembered, ''We were literally within 15 minutes of foreclosing.''
A call went to Rob Goodman's home late that evening from Alice Connell. Things looked dismal. At about 6 the next morning Peter Gevalt from Wells Hill called Mr. Goodman, trying to stave off the foreclosure action. After some haggling, matters looked brighter and a conference call was commenced, with people connected from cities all across the country. There were so many people plugged into the call that quite a burble of voices built up. Some callers would drop off for a while and then patch back in. The call continued for upward of six hours.
At one point, when the creditors presumably lost track of the Carpenter people and thought they were off the line, one of the creditors, figuring things were hopeless, began preparing one of the others for a race to the courthouse. ''Now you better get in your car and be ready to go to the courthouse,'' he told the man. ''You haven't had any drinks at lunch today, have you?''
The discussion then centered on the restless 150's wanting some penalty imposed if the deal failed to close by a specific date. Wells Hill ultimately agreed to pay $41,800 a day every day after June 1 that the deal didn't close (the bulk of which would be reimbursed by Southland employees). ''We gulped when we signed that,'' Mr. Gevalt said. With that resolved, and with 15 minutes to go before the foreclosure window closed, the parties came to terms.
After several more crises, like the First National Bank of Boston foreclosing on a Las Colinas shopping center, and after nearly a month of payments to the 150's being racked up, the deal that looked like it would never get done in fact closed on June 29. There was relief, exaltation, exhaustion. ''By the end, everyone had left some blood on the table,'' said Mr. Gevalt.
 
Back in the Saddle
 On a breezy, sun-drenched afternoon, people stream in and out of the elevated people mover, getting to their jobs in the downtown towers of Las Colinas. Some tourists are shelling out the $1 to take a water taxi. A few cars trumpet their horns. Foursomes are already clambering into their golf carts to attack the course at the Four Seasons resort.
Las Colinas has certainly reached palmier times. When Exxon looked all over the country for a fit spot to plant its headquarters and settled on Las Colinas, that act alone boosted everyone's spirits to heights not known in years.
Still, much remains to happen. In terms of land to be sold and buildings to be erected, the game is still less than half over. The hope in Dallas is that the bottom of the real estate market has been reached. For its part, the Las Colinas partnership thinks it can do $45 million in land sales this year. Whatever happens, the partnership is content to wait patiently. ''It's no get-rich-quick scheme,'' said Ms. Connell. ''It's a 25-year project. We want to develop the place in an orderly fashion.''
Up in his office, Ben Carpenter leaned back in the soft leather sofa. The coffee table in front of the sofa seemed big enough to land a plane on. ''I see no reason why it won't develop just as I thought way back when,'' he said. ''It's just been a little wilder and it will take a little longer. Sometimes, that's the way it goes.''
 
LATE-NIGHT PHONE CALLS
During the arduous skirmishing to restructure the pile of Las Colinas debt, the various sides in the bargaining lived a life of unending pressure in which they learned to employ quite a bag of tricks.
''We always thought we had only another week before everything would go up in smoke,'' said Alice Connell of the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, a partner in the restructuring. ''You checked yourself at the beginning of each week to see if you had any lethal bullet wounds,'' she added. ''If you didn't, you went on for another week.''
Some creditor representatives got so annoyed by stalled progress that they refused to come to meetings or accept phone calls from members of the partnership.
The partnership thus resorted to alternative tactics. Once, Pat Hackett of JMB Realty waited, eyes fixated on asphalt, in a representative's driveway for several hours on a Saturday afternoon until the man drove up. It was talk or go back to the mall.
A number of times, phone calls were placed to bargainers' homes at hours when odds were extremely favorable that they were there: for instance, somewhere between 2 and 5 in the morning.
''I wouldn't say they were pleased to hear from us,'' said Mr. Hackett. ''But, you know, it was a good way to get to talk.'' Throughout the months of negotiations, no one was ever off duty. Ms. Connell, for example, did one bargaining session from a phone in Disney World, while her impatient son whimpered.
''I also got faxed while on vacation on the QE2,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A herd of stone mustangs in fornt of the headquarters building at Las Colinas real estate development near Dallas (NYT/Jarrold Cabluck); graph of sales of raw land in Las Colinas, 1980-1989 (Source: Hackberry Land Co.) (pg. 1); PHOTOS: Las Colinas was caught in the crash of the Dallas real estate market (NYT/Jarrold Cabluck); Ben Carpenter, who conceived Las Colinas, and his son, John; Las Colinas Residents can travel by water taxi on a system of canals (NYT) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%); XOM (NYSE) (64%); ALL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (66%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (64%); ALLSTATE CORP (56%); BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (56%); BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DALLAS (TEX)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (94%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (75%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (75%); INSURANCE (73%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (70%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R; CARPENTER, BEN BEN CARPENTER (95%); 



143 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1880 words

HEADLINE: Bad Times, Bold Plans for Brazil

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO

 BODY:
Fernando Collor de Mello, Brazil's 40-year-old President-elect, has some ambitious plans for his troubled nation.
The need for them is plain, for as Finance Minister Mailson Ferreira da Nobrega has pointed out, the 1980's were ''a lost decade'' for Latin America's largest nation. ''Per capita income stagnated, inflation beat all records, investment declined, public finances went into virtual collapse, and the foreign debt crisis prematurely transformed Brazil into an exporter of capital,'' he wrote recently in a remarkably blunt assessment in the Jornal do Brasil.
Determined to mend things, Mr. Collor has put together a somewhat Thatcheresque package of goals and means that includes:
* Cutting Brazil's inflation rate, which ran at a record 1,765 percent in 1989, by catching tax cheats, cutting the number of ministries in half and selling money-losing state companies.
* Reducing the burden of Brazil's $110 billion foreign debt, the largest in the third world, by encouraging foreign creditors to swap their debt titles for shares in Brazilian companies and to renegotiate debt so that service payments are capped at $5 billion a year. 
* Restoring growth after a decade of stagnation, by encouraging foreign investment, lowering trade barriers and promoting greater integration with the developed world. To this end, he is to travel to the United States, Europe and Japan before starting his five-year term on March 15.
Even the foreseeable obstacles to this grand plan for the 1990's, however, are formidable.
On the political side, implementation of most of Mr. Collor's changes depend on approval from a powerful Congress. Mr. Collor does not control that Congress now and further problems for him could develop in October, when congressional elections will take place, at a time when the country may be in what Mr. Collor expects to be ''a small recession.''
In the 1980's, Brazil was overtaken by the Pacific rim nations as the third world's hot growth area. Now, the fear here is that Eastern Europe will draw away foreign capital. ''Eastern Europe is the new competitor of Latin America,'' read a recent newspaper headline here.
Running against the trends of the last 30 years of Brazilian economic thinking, Mr. Collor has proposed foreign investment in such traditionally state-dominated areas as road building and energy generation.
But Mr. Collor and his colleagues realize that to attract foreign capital they must also improve Brazil's economic environment to reverse the outflow of Brazilian flight capital - $1 billion a month last year, according to the American Embassy.
The Dec. 17 presidential election, which Mr. Collor won 53 percent to 47 percent, left him facing a strengthened, radicalized left.
''Now the working class will have the opportunity to watch him kissing the hands of the businessmen, kissing the hands of the military, kissing the hands of the International Monetary Fund,'' said Luis Inacio da Silva, Mr. Collor's left-wing adversary, at a postelection news conference.
Indeed, despite the national self-examination that took place during the six-month presidential campaign, it is unclear whether Mr. Collor has a popular mandate for his free-market program.
Losing most of the major cities, Mr. Collor won on the shoulders of Brazil's poorest, least educated and mostly rural voters. During the campaign, Mr. Collor, who speaks five languages, reportedly joked that his voters thought ''risk capital'' referred to crime in Brasilia and that ''tax incentives'' referred to bribes paid to tax collectors.
Today, the President-elect's strategy for winning support appears to be to let Brazil's present government flounder into what economists call hyperinflation, a rate of 50 percent or more a month. The December rate was 53 percent, and estimates for January are for 70 percent.
Mr. Collor has ruled out ''co-governing'' with Brazil's outgoing president, Jose Sarney, and has barred his economic advisers from meeting with Mr. Sarney's. His own travels will keep him mostly out of the country into February.
''Collor's no dope - he wants the bomb to explode in Sarney's hands,'' said one Brazilian businessman.
Some Brazilians believe that a plunge into severe hyperinflation might scare Brazil's Congress into supporting Mr. Collor's program - much the way inflation and sackings of food stores in Argentina last June gave that nation's President-elect, Carlos Menem, bipartisan congressional support for economic reform.
But, as Roberto Campos, a Brazilian Senator and conservative economist, said in an interview, ''Argentina went through a disaster. Brazil has only gone into a half-disaster.'' Indeed, Brazil may prove resistant to hyperinflation's effects. Sheer size tends to keep the economy rolling, and there's a lot more size than immediately meets the eye. Economists say as much as 40 percent of the country's economic activity goes unrecorded, mostly because of tax evasion. And, of course, people do adjust to dealing with explosive numbers.
There is also a system of monthly adjustments of wages, rents and savings rates that helps offset price explosion. Known as indexation, the system kept Brazil's economy functioning during the 1980's, when prices increased by 39,043,765 percent. (Folha de Sao Paulo, the newspaper that calculated that mind-stretching inflation rate, compared it to 85 percent in the United States.) ''Hyperinflation is not a monthly inflation rate - it is a state of disorganization,'' Finance Minister Nobrega argued last month. ''In hyperinflation, people lose faith in contracts and in institutions and there are shortages.'' Considerable disorganization is indeed apparent. Contracts are rarely made in cruzados, the local currency, but rather in dollars or in terms of a national treasury bond that serves as a unit of measure, corrected for inflation.
In shops, where there are daily recalculations, pricing in cruzados (which have replaced cruzeiras) is breaking down. Last week, a new Chevette cost the same as 42 silk brassieres. The same bottle of wine cost 50 cruzados at one supermarket and 17 cruzados at another.
In the rush to convert shrinking cruzados into solid goods, Brazilians seem to ignore such anomalies. Last month, for example, the Paes Mendonca supermarket chain opened a store here with 121 checkout counters - 17,000 shoppers crowd in daily.
Most of Rio's restaurants and hotels stopped accepting credit cards last month because a 20-day billing period eroded the value of payments. Many factories have shortened the payment time of stores to 10 days from 20, and many employers are moving from a monthly payment system to a weekly system.
In the absence of political support from Mr. Collor, the outgoing government is following three policies that Brazilian economists say will prove to be costly to the new government. Public utility rates are being kept low, exacerbating deficits of state utility companies. An artificially high official exchange rate is depressing exports. And high interest rates are swelling the internal debt.
To tame inflation, Mr. Collor, a former karate champion, plans to raise government receipts by initiating ''catch thief'' - a program to enforce Brazil's widely ignored tax code. On the expenditure side, he has said he wants to raise $18 billion by selling state companies and to save billions more by dramatically slashing subsidies and bureaucracy.
''Our economic program is based on the fact that the state cannot remain with the power of interference that it has today in the Brazilian economy,'' Mr. Collor said recently in a nationally-televised news conference. ''The state is inefficient, the state is corrupt, the state is incompetent and the state is gigantic.''
But many subsidy systems - such as the duty-free industrial zone of Manaus - are guaranteed by the Constitution. Mr. Collor may cut the number of ministries to 12 from 23, but many federal employees have virtually lifetime employment. ''The Brazilian political class is basically state-ist, it believes that the state is the solution of all problems,'' Finance Minister Nobrega said recently.
An early reaction - one that may become typical - came last week to Mr. Collor's proposal to abolish the National Information Service, Brazil's foreign and domestic security agency. ''If he wants to abolish the service, let him send a bill to Congress,'' said Gen. Ivan Mendes, head of the service.
To restore growth, Mr. Collor plans to limit annual debt service payments to $5 billion - about half the 1988 level. Last July, Brazil stopped servicing its commercial debt, and the President-elect will inherit arrears of about $5 billion. Brazil's reserves are currently $7.2 billion, and the trade surplus for 1989 was about $16 billion - down from $19 billion in 1988, but still third largest in the world after Japan and West Germany.
No foreign banker interviewed here predicted that Brazil will pay significant amounts on its debt in 1990. Over the last six months, the value on the secondary market of a dollar of Brazilian debt has dropped to about 23 cents, from 34 cents.
During the campaign, candidates concentrated nationalist ire on the foreign debt. ''International bankers have Collor by the tail,'' said literature from the leftist Mr. da Silva, ''and he is going to continue paying the foreign debt.'' Among the pieces of legislation working their way through Congress are bills that would reject floating interest rates, put a 6 percent ceiling on rates and remove debt talks from the ''hostile environment'' of New York City.
In the campaign, Mr. Collor proposed withdrawing central bank guarantees covering about 80 percent of Brazil's $60 billion commercial debt. Zelia Cardoso de Mello, the President-elect's principal economic adviser, argues that this would free debtors to engage in individual renegotiations. But the representative of one large American bank here objected: ''They can't unilaterally withdraw the guarantee. It's written in almost all the loan contracts.''
To exert pressure, some banks have started cutting back on short-term credit for Brazil, virtually the only kind of commercial credit still available. In a more conventional debt-cutting approach, Mr. Collor is expected to seek relief under a plan put forward recently by the United States and to accelerate debt-for-equity swaps. Highly popular with creditors, the swaps cut Brazil's debt by about $9 billion until they were suspended in 1988 on the ground that they were ''inflationary.'' Surviving in a limited form, the swaps cut another $4 billion off the debt in 1989.
The debt swaps are to be part of a campaign to make Brazil, Latin America's largest market, attractive once again for foreign investment.
''We have to do away with this inferiority complex, especially strong in the Brazilian left, that the presence of foreign investment in the economy means the presence of the colonizer oppressing the colonized,'' Mr. Collor said in a campaign interview. ''I want Brazil to be once again a land of opportunity, above all for the younger generation. In the last two years, 200,000 young people abandoned the country. They didn't leave for travel, tourism or education - they literally gave up on Brazil.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A new Paes Mendonca supermarket. The rush to change currency into hard goods overwhelms 121 checkout counters (Agencia JB/Renan Cepada); a stalled subway project at the Copacabana Beach reflects the problems that beset Brazil's economy. (NYT/Bob Strong); GRAPHS: Brazil's inflation rate, 1981-1989 (Source: Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics); Brazil's foreign debt, 1977-1989 (Source: Gazeta Mercantil); Brazil's average annual growth in gross nationa product, by decade, 1950-1989 (Source: Fundac,ao Getulio Vargas)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); EUROPE (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (69%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (73%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TRENDS (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); RECESSION (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); TAX FRAUD (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; COLLOR DE MELLO, FERNANDO FERNANDO COLLOR DE MELLO (96%); JOSE SARNEY (55%); 



144 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: WEEK IN BUSINESS;
A Giant Sale By Uncle Sam

BYLINE: By STEVE DODSON

 BODY:
The biggest real estate sale in American history is under way as the Federal Government acts on Administration orders to move quickly to dispose of properties taken over from failed savings and loan institutions. Last week the Resolution Trust Corporation, the agency handling the dispositions, listed about 30,000 properties it had acquired since Sept. 30. The list includes mansions, small houses, office buildings, hotels, shopping centers and tracts of land. The agency was swamped with calls from bargain hunters, but officials said the Government was determined to get at least 95 percent of the appraised value. Some experts were expressing concern that the assets, many of them in the Southwest, would be ''dumped'' in real estate markets that are already depressed. The supply of such properties will grow; only 318 of a projected 500 institutions have been taken over, and many analysts say the projection is low. 
 
*
 New-home sales jumped 9.6 percent in November, their steepest gain in four months. The October data were revised to show a gain of nine-tenths of a percent, rather than the decline of five-tenths originally reported. Another sign of strength came from factory orders: they rose 2.4 percent in November to their second-highest level ever. Construction spending was up 1.5 percent in November, reaching its highest level since January 1989. The first data for December showed the unemployment rate was unchanged at 5.3 percent. But only 142,000 jobs were created last month, and that figure reflected the return to work of 55,000 striking telephone workers. For the year, 1.7 million jobs were created, down from 2.3 million in 1988.
 
*
 Retailers got what they expected from the Christmas season, a moderate gain in sales. Much of the buying came late, and merchants had to offer deep discounts and advertise heavily. Sears, Roebuck said its sales were up 3.5 percent. Gains at other chains were generally from about 8 to about 15 percent. Toys ''R'' Us posted a 22.7 percent gain in the eight-week Christmas season.
Car sales remained depressed late last month, with domestic manufacturers showing a decline of 20.2 percent from the period in 1988. But light-trucks, including mini-vans, registered gains. For the year, sales totaled 14.6 million vehicles, the fifth- largest ever but a decline from 15.8 million in 1988. Last year also saw an industry first: a Japanese model, the Honda Accord, became the best seller in the American market. Honda sold 363,707 Accords, many of them made at a plant in Ohio. Ford Taurus was second, with sales of 348,061.
 
*
 Stocks had a rousing start to 1990, with the Dow Jones industrial average soaring 56.95 on Tuesday, the year's first trading day. That put the Dow at a record 2,810.15, its first close above 2,800. But prices backed off after that, and the Dow ended the week up only 20.05 points, at 2,773.25. Bond prices were lower as traders concluded that the economy was not so weak as once thought and the inflation-wary Federal Reserve might not be willing to lower rates. A possible inflation worry came from oil prices, which went to four-year highs, with West Texas Intermediate reaching $23.68. But there were widespread predictions that prices would ease, and OPEC production was said to be running about three million barrels a day above the quota of 20.5 million. The dollar was volatile, up strongly against the yen but then down after central banks intervened.
 
*
 Eastern Airlines lowered fares as much as 45 percent below the industry's deepest discounts in an effort to regain passengers after its strike and bankruptcy turmoil. Some other carriers matched the move on competing routes, but there was a general trend to raise fares by 4 to 5 percent to cover recent spurts in fuel costs.
 
*
 Robert Campeau gave up a 20 percent holding in his company when he handed $100 million worth of its stock to a Canadian bank after defaulting on a loan to two of his private investment companies. The move reduces his holding in the Campeau Corporation to less than 50 percent. But Mr. Campeau did get a two-week reprieve from other banks on their threat to declare a default on $2.34 billion of loans. Those loans were to the company's Allied and Federated department store units. The prize of that retail collection, the 17-store Bloomingdale's chain, is now up for sale.
 
*
 Miscellanea. Merrill Lynch is selling its Canadian retail brokerage business to Wood Gundy, a leading Canadian securities firm . . . A Federal judge approved a $6 million settlement of a suit filed against CBS by an investor who held 12 shares and said the company was mismanaged from 1983 to 1986. CBS did not admit any wrongdoing but agreed to put aside $4.5 million to benefit stockholders in general. The plaintiff will get $15,000 and his lawyer $1.5 million . . . Asahi Breweries, Japan's third-largest beer maker, said it would build a $70 million brewery near Denver to produce its ''Super Dry'' beer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: For sale sign of Government property (NYT/Jarrold Cabluck)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (53%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (58%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (87%); JOB CREATION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); HISTORY (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); CHRISTMAS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); 

PERSON: ROBERT JOSEPH CAMPEAU (57%); 



145 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: THE EXECUTIVE COMPUTER;
Forecasting Tools for the Novice

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis

 BODY:
Every business depends on forecasting, whether its executives know it or not. How many new franchise stores should we open in 1990? Will we have enough cash on hand in November to pay expenses? Will our current staff be adequate to meet manufacturing demand in 1992? When do we need to reorder widgets? Forecasts are intended to answer those questions.
Until recently, forecasting was the domain of specialists in the dark science of statistical analysis and mathematical modeling. These people pore over the historical numbers generated by a company - monthly sales figures, for example - and then put them in motion, trying to find patterns and models that can be used to predict what might happen a month, a year or a decade ahead. 
For especially complex forecasting jobs, like predicting how much the West German economy will benefit from changes in Eastern Europe, it still makes sense to hire a specialist. But many executives are discovering that today's powerful personal computers can handle all but the most complex forecasting chores.
Business Forecast Systems Inc., of Belmont, Mass., (617) 484-5050, has created three programs for personal computers made by the International Business Machines Corporation and compatible machines that allow experts and novices to forecast with exceptional ease. The most sophisticated product, Forecast Master Plus ($695), is aimed at the niche of executives who understand such concepts as multivariate state space and variable parametric regressions and thus do not need much hand-holding.
Lost already? Me too. For those of us who dozed through Statistics 101, the company offers Forecast Pro ($495), a forecasting tool that has a built-in expert system to guide the user. If Forecast Master Plus is thought of as a high-powered telescope, Forecast Pro is a pair of binoculars. And for those who only need a good pair of glasses to sharpen their vision a bit, there is Forecalc, a $149 program that allows users of the Lotus 1-2-3 (up to version 2.2) and Symphony spreadsheets to enter the forecasting field relatively painlessly.
The less expensive programs use fewer analytical tools. And they6 are not meant to create presentation-quality reports. Their relatively crude graphics are a weakness, and executives would do well to take these forecasts and plug them into a leading graphic program like Harvard Graphics before making a presentation.
Expert systems are becoming increasingly important business applications, especially in esoteric areas like statistics. In essence, the programmers have imbued Forecast Pro and Forecalc with a crude form of ''artificial intelligence'' that captures the collective wisdom of experts in the field - in this case the developers themselves, Robert L. Goodrich and Eric A. Stellwagen. Their expertise can then be applied to the user's problems.
For example, the user might define the problem and enter all the raw data needed for the analysis. But that is only a small part of the exercise: choosing the right model from among more than a dozen different forecasting techniques for extrapolating that data can greatly increase the user's confidence in the results.
A small retail business whose sales depend largely on certain holidays would need a smoothing technique, for example, that would take into account seasonality. Forecast Pro will automatically analyze the problem and recommend the optimal forecast model, and experienced users at the Coca-Cola Company and the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, among others, have reported that the program seems to pick the right one most of the time.
Many businesses test forecasting packages by feeding in historical data and turning the software loose on a problem whose outcome is already known - the effect of last year's interest rates on sales, for example. Employing different models would presumably yield results of varying accuracy. The expert system in Forecast Pro will even explain why it chooses one method over another.
Both Forecast Pro and Forecalc are intended for users who do not have a background in statistics. Forecalc is a sort of ''one-button'' forecasting machine that works from within a Lotus 1-2-3 or Symphony spreadsheet. Forecast Pro is also relatively easy to use, making extensive use of pull-down menus, but it is not for the cowardly. For those who understand such things, the principal statistical methods employed by Forecast Pro are exponential smoothing, Box-Jenkins and dynamic regression. Forecalc sticks with exponential smoothing.
At this point, we should note that some people will find it most helpful to read the Forecast Pro manual back-to-front. The third and last part of the manual is a statistical reference written by the developers, describing the basic principles in relatively simple English.
The authors favor exponential smoothing as the most general approach for most problems, since it requires less data and since it is easiest to fit to a particular model. Five types of smoothing, in the so-called Holt Winters family, are included in Pro and Forecalc. Pro also includes Box-Jenkins models (''an implementation of the univariate autoregressive integrated moving average procedure described by Box and Jenkins''), which are preferred in cases where there are more data and when the data are relatively stable, and a more complex family of models called dynamic regression.
Executives who decide to work with Forecast Pro or Forecalc should remember that no forecast is ever 100 percent accurate. No manipulation of fusty old numbers can account for the unexpected introduction of a competing product or a change in public taste, say, to orange widgets from green ones.
That's where the most important ''expert system'' of them all -the user - comes into play. An executive can overlay his or her insight, or even gut instincts, atop the computer-generated equations to refine predictions. At the same time, ''there is an advantage in the objective results that these programs produce,'' said Mr. Goodrich in an interview.
''The statistical methods are subject to biases.'' he said. ''We separate desires and goals, the subjective factors, from the forecasting process, making the results more reliable. The result is that decision-making is much better, and simpler.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (68%); IBM (NYSE) (68%); IBM (LSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS FORECAST SYSTEMS INC (69%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (68%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; FORECASTS COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (89%); FRANCHISING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MODELING & SIMULATION (78%); RETAILERS (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); MATHEMATICS (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); PRESENTATION SOFTWARE (72%); SPREADSHEET SOFTWARE (72%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (61%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H ANN LIVERMORE (91%); 



146 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
In the Deep South Of the Soviet Fold, Complaints Rise In Many Tongues

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
EVERY time a new protest group announces itself along one of the mountainous turnings of the Soviet border, a vast frontier of disparate passions, Kremlinologists rush to their gazetteers the way they used to study the hierarchal lineup atop Lenin's tomb for hints of impending upheaval.
Nakhichevan? The Nakhichevan Popular Front put itself on the map last week, reportedly marshaling thousands of protesters along miles of the far southern border with Iran. According to Moscow's complaint about fresh ''extremist'' lawlessness, they showed up with tents and bullhorns, demanding an open frontier, shouting, ''Down with the Russian empire,'' and destroying extensive stretches of guard posts and border fencing.
Nakhichevan is a separate Islamic piece of the Azerbaijan republic whose kinship with the neighboring Azerbaijan province of northern Iran is an indisputable part of ancient and modern history. Stalin pursued expansionist intrigue across this border quite brazenly four decades ago, but eventually pulled back a puppet government from Iranian Azerbaijan when the Western powers complained. 
But now in the Gorbachev era, it is the Azerbaijani people themselves on the Soviet side of the frontier who are exercising their increasing freedom of self-expression, in order to complain that they long have been denied open access to Iranian kin and culture.
Westerners are forbidden to go to this frontier, but still the scraps of available information prove tantalizing, particularly after the wave of upheaval that has swept Eastern Europe right up to the Soviet border. A Harbinger? Might this largely Shiite Muslim republic be the spark for the long rumored, never realized ''pan-Islamic'' rising against Soviet masters?
Beyond the novelty of scattered group protest, is a common strategic denominator possible among the scattered separatist fervors that stretch far to the north, to the Baltic republics?
Or with the cross-border ties, far to the west, of the proud Moldavians lately inspired by their Rumanian kin?
Or closer, with the Abkhazian minority's yearning for a more independent status in Georgia, an issue that saw Soviet troops use excessive force last April and leave the Kremlin more wary of ethnic confrontations?
Far more locally, how might Nakhichevan be related to the deadly Azerbaijani-Armenian enmity of the last two years over control of the Nagorno-Karabakh enclave, 30 miles north of the Iranian border? In that communal violence, more than 100 people have been killed and scores of thousands turned into refugees.
Even such a Kremlinologist as President Mikhail S. Gorbachev does not pretend to have answers to such polyglot riddles. He has expressed a kind of pained wonderment at the mix of ethnic grievances and ancient vendettas that the Communists inherited from the czars and that Stalin often compounded.
It is a mix of pressures now being expressed as separatist yearnings in the first flush of unsuppressed outspokenness.
In a way, their separate roots in ancient time and geography, endlessly complicated as they are, seem to insulate the Soviet leader from having to confront a single wave of separatist grievance.
Instead, there is more the feel of a wave of undifferentiated anxiety to the assorted yearnings and occasional violence crackling lately along the Soviet frontier.
 
WILDFIRES IN THE MUSLIM REPUBLICS
In the six predominantly Muslim Soviet republics that stretch from the Caucasus Mountains to the Central Asian steppes, opposition movements, ethnic conflict and economic grievances have challenged Moscow's control to one degree or another. But the popular fronts take pains to avoid identification with religion, asserting that the threat of Islamic fundamentalism is a myth the Soviets use to keep their subjects in check. Here is a look at the Soviet Union's southern flank.
* Azerbaijan has the most organized opposition movement in the Muslim-dominated republics. Unlike the Islamic populations in the other five republics, which are largely Sunni, the Azerbaijanis are Shiite. But the leaders of the Azerbaijani Popular Front say they identify not with Islamic Iran, but with secular Turkey. Last week, crowds in the region of Nakhichevan tore up fences along the Soviet-Iranian border, unrest that local leaders said was largely the result of a desire for farmland across the border. In addition, the Azerbaijanis are warring with neighboring Armenia, the only Christian republic in the southern tier, over custody of Nagorno-Karabakh, a region of Azerbaijan that is predominantly Armenian. The dispute has encouraged the Popular Front, which is also angry about what it says is the transfer of the republic's oil wealth to Moscow.
* In Kazakhstan, which has more than 100 ethnic groups, anger about the presence and privileges of migrant workers and alarm about contamination from a vast nuclear-weapons testing range have become focal points for opposition. Three years ago, nationalists rioted after the naming of a non-Kazakh Communist Party chief. The republic is also warring with neighbors; it wants to reclaim a region that is now part of Uzbekistan and Turkmenia.
* Though Soviet authorities have often cited the need to counter Iran's propaganda in Turkmenia, Tehran and Moscow signed an agreement last year for a new rail link between the republic and Iran.
* In Uzbekistan, a popular front called Birlik, or Unity, has been fueled by the rural poverty and environmental degradation of its vast cotton fields. Last year, there were protests that not enough Muslims were on the election ballot. Also, Uzbek mobs have rampaged against the republic's Meskhetian minority, which is relatively better off.
* The people of Tadzhikistan are of Persian origin and speak an Iranian dialect. (The Muslims in other Central Asia republics are Turkic.) But unlike the Iranian Muslims, the Tadzhik Muslims are mostly Sunni. Still, Soviet authorities have said the republic is fertile ground for Teheran's propaganda, and several years ago the press reported a crackdown on fundamentalist mullahs. The Tadzhiks and Uzbeks have claims on each others' land.

GRAPHIC: Map of the Soviet Union highlighting the Muslim republics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%); 

COUNTRY: AZERBAIJAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); GEORGIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARMENIA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); EUROPE (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%); NAKHICHEVAN POPULAR FRONT (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ISLAM; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); RELIGION (89%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); HISTORY (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); ETHNICITY (70%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X



147 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
East Europe Joins the Market And Gets a Preview of the Pain

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: PRAGUE

 BODY:
THE Eastern European countries that have paid with blood and struggle for their freedom to depart from Communism may decide some day that this was the easy part. Politics and economics remain as inseparable as the Marxists kept saying they were, and the new leaders in Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Rumania and Bulgaria are making painful decisions more slowly than they would if they weren't so worried about the domestic political cost - a factor in every country in the region.
Junking the Soviet-built Comecon trading bloc in its present form is one popular move. This week the organization's finance ministers will gather in Sofia, Bulgaria, to bury the corpse and, possibly, replace it with more realistic ad-hoc bilateral agreements among themselves. In any case, all the Eastern European countries seem bound to remain each other's principal trading partners for the foreseeable future.
Integration into the Western economy will take years, and getting there will almost certainly involve real pain: closing down obsolete factories and laying off workers who lack marketable skills are things that these countries haven't known for 40 years. ''We must have about reached the 1930's now,'' said Karel Dyba, a Czechoslovak economist. In fact, the risks of dislocation and hardship that lie ahead could compare to the ordeals of the Great Depression. 
Nowhere is this more evident than in Poland, where a spiraling inflation rate of several thousand percent annually has led to the near destruction of the currency, bare shelves, a thriving black market and smuggling of consumer goods.
''Help us,'' Poland's new non-Communist leaders have been saying for months to foreign politicians, bankers and business leaders. Last week, backed by a $1 billion currency stabilization fund underwritten by the United States, West Germany and other industrialized democracies, the Polish Government began taking the unpopular steps without which recovery is impossible. They began reducing the subsidies that have kept rents, food prices and the cost of living artificially low in the Communist countries for more than 40 years. Bread prices rose 38 percent, and the cost of coal, which many Poles use for heating, went up by 600 percent. After gasoline and car insurance prices soared out of reach, thousands of Polish car owners turned in their license plates. These are the first steps toward creating a market mechanism in which supply, demand and the value of money have a rational relationship with one other.
As the Poles took the plunge, there was a sharp intake of breath in the rest of Eastern Europe, where the same things will have to be done some day. The economies of the other countries, except for Rumania, have not yet deteriorated as far as Poland's, but neither have they made as much progress toward democracy. What Poland's neighbors are waiting to see now is how well democratically elected representatives can stand up to the heat from voters once the pain of economic reform sets in.
In both East Germany and Czechoslovakia, where interim Governments are preparing for the first real multiparty elections in 40 years this spring, considerable economic change is under way, but it is still tentative.
Even before its hard-line Communist leaders fell, Czechoslovakia had done away with annual central planning, leaving state-owned enterprises freer to decide how to meet goals set in the five-year plan. Last week, the Government declared that it would pull out of the cumbersome multilateral trading arrangements of Comecon unilaterally if the other members don't agree to dismantle them this week. Following Poland's example, Czechoslovakia sharply devalued its currency against the dollar. In addition, the new Prague Government, a mix of Communists and non-Communists, is working on a law like Poland's to permit private ownership of businesses.
But so far the new monetarist economists who have taken over in Czechoslovakia have shown no signs of wanting to privatize the technologically outmoded manufacturing plants that power the country's economy. One example of such dinosaurs is the Skoda automobile works, which ground to a halt last week because the non-Communist President, Vaclav Havel, had deprived it of 1,551 involuntary members of the labor force by declaring a New Year's amnesty for prisoners.
In East Germany, the interim Government led by the Communist Prime Minister, Hans Modrow, has the moral authority that Mr. Havel has in Czechoslovakia, but it also is not rushing to make tough economic decisions. East Germany's leaders, even with three times Czechoslovakia's $6.7 billion foreign debt, know they can count on large amounts of private and public help from West Germany; indeed, their main worry may eventually be how to avoid simply being swallowed up.
Nobody in Czechoslovakia or East Germany wants to enter free elections with a reputation for lowering people's living standards, so for the moment, many of the Communists' economic distortions remain in place. Every pound of butter sold to a consumer in Czechoslovakia costs the Government more than $1.70 in subsidies at the official rate of exchange, according to official statistics, and in East Germany, monthly rent for a two-bedroom apartment in the center of East Berlin is less than a meal for one in a medium-priced restaurant in West Berlin. Let's wait for elections, the politicians say, before people get mad at us for taking the crutch away. The delay may make the task even harder.
Hungary, whose Communist leaders were the first to see which way the wind was blowing, has certainly not lacked political vision. Believing that political change had to precede any meaningful economic change, the reformers in the Communist Party voted to dissolve it last fall and start over again as the Hungarian Socialist Party. Though they still haven't relinquished their monopoly on political power, the ''Socialists'' have persuaded the International Monetary Fund to help them deal with a $20 billion debt. Under the I.M.F.'s terms they will have to cut the budget, reduce housing subsidies, and raise consumer prices before parliamentary elections planned for March. Meanwhile, Hungary's economic reforms seem more image than substance, like the Estee Lauder shop set up on Vaci Street in Budapest, or the sale of the Tunsram light-bulb factory last year to General Electric.
Bulgaria, with a smaller industrial economy and closer ties to the Soviets than the other Eastern Europeans, is purging its Communist Party of the remnants of the leadership swept away in November. Elections may be held in May or June, but talk of reform has been limited to giving more autonomy to individual state-run enterprises.
Finally, Rumania, with an economy that had been systematically run down and distorted by Nicolae Ceausescu's megalomania, may be the region's real basket case. Elections, in which the discredited Communists will probably play only a minor role, are promised for April. Rumania has no foreign debt, since Mr. Ceausescu deprived the population of decent food, heat and even electric light for years in order to export enough to pay the loans off. Agriculture, the backbone of this export policy, seems in relatively good shape, but the industrial plant is outdated. The new Council of National Salvation has made more goods available to the people, but all it will say about economic reform yet is that you can't reform chaos.
A question all over Eastern Europe, and in the Soviet Union, is whether people can change the way they work; Eastern Europeans have not worked very hard, because there was not much point in it for four decades. It is not only the politicians who will have to work harder in the coming year if democracy is to have a chance.
 
SIX COUNTRIES IN SEARCH OF PROSPERITY
Figures for 1988 except where noted.

 	 	 	 	 	 		Pop.	G.N.P.	Per capita	Hard	Automobile		(1989, in	(billions	G.N.P.	currency	registrations		millions)	of dollars)		debt	per thousand				(billions	people	 				of dollars)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Poland	38.2	$276.3	$7,270	$38.5	105	Rumania	23.2	126.3	5,490	2.2	11	East Germany	16.6	207.2	12,480	19.5	209	Czechoslovakia	15.6	158.2	10,140	6.1	173	Hungary	10.6	91.8	8,660	18.0	145	Bulgaria	9.0	67.6	7,510	7.1	120	
 
(Source: Central Intelligance Agency; Population Reference Bureau)

CORRECTION-DATE: January 30, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Three recent articles about the Soviet Union - one on Jan. 7 about a Communist Party school, one on Jan. 21 about the political opposition and one on Jan. 22 about the same topic -misstated the number of Soviet Communist Party members. It is 19 million.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Amnesty declared for many Czechoslovak prisoners last week halted production at the Skoda automobile plant in Mlada Boleslav, where nearly 1,600 prisoners worked (Associated Press); in a Bucharest suburb last weekend, a woman (left) clutched her purchase of coffee, available for the first time in years (Reuters); as gasoline and insurance prices soared, thousands of Poles turned in their license plates last week (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (96%); EUROPE (95%); ROMANIA (94%); HUNGARY (93%); BULGARIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (78%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EAST GERMANY; HUNGARY; RUMANIA; CZECHOSLOVAKIA; BULGARIA; POLAND; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (85%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); INFLATION (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COST OF LIVING (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); SMUGGLING (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); FOOD PRICES (69%); CLOSINGS (67%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (67%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (67%); TRENDS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); BAKED GOODS (60%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R



148 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
How the Bankers Missed On Northeast Real Estate

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ONLY a few years ago, it seemed that New England, and most of the Northeast for that matter, had only bright days ahead. Unemployment was minuscule, wages were soaring, and housing prices and new construction were booming. But now, bankers find themselves wondering why they did not see that the New England euphoria would soon come crashing to an end.
The good times had moved New England lenders into real estate speculation, more so than in most parts of the country, and now banking experts note that poor lending decisions and excessive building created a banking crisis that many see as a small version of the nation's savings and loan debacle. 
The experts are quick to assert that the difficulties are not about to reach the dimensions of what Texas and the Southwest have experienced. But every week news trickles out that New England's real estate problems are going to get worse.
The Bank of New England reported in mid-December that it would have to set aside $700 million to cover anticipated losses on real estate lending, and last week the First National Bank of Boston said that it would have to set aside $280 million for the same reason.
Bankers and regulators warn that before the problems of vacant condominiums, abandoned building sites and record numbers of homes for sale are solved, some big banks might fail.
Perhaps most puzzling is the failure of New England lenders to learn from the Texas debacle, but the experts offer some explanations.
Many of them note that much of the overbuilding in New England is concentrated in the condominium market, large developments of one- and two-bedroom apartments. In Hull, Mass., south of Boston, for example, large complexes stand almost vacant because builders misread demand.
L. William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, said bankers did not have much experience in that type of credit risk; New England had mainly been a market of single-family houses and of businesses.
Mr. Seidman noted that the lenders seldom insisted that the builder have insurance, guaranteed tenants or a certain level of sales. ''This was unthinkable a few years ago, but bankers simply did not maintain the old standards,'' he said.
Another problem, regulators and bankers say, was the pack mentality, in the absence of rules prohibiting excessive lending in one area.
''Let's say that you estimate the market can handle 1,000 new condos, so you make a loan to a developer to put up 500 units,'' said Paul St. Laurent, president of the Somerworth Bank in Somerworth, N.H. ''What you don't know is that seven other banks gave similar loans, so all of a sudden you have 5,000 units coming on line for a market that can only handle 1,000.''
Experts say the only real solution is unpalatable: regulating the real estate industry almost as the government regulates power companies, deciding how much is needed and who should supply it.
But New England had other economic factors at work that worsened the overbuilding.
In the early 1980's, many savings and loans went public, bringing in hundreds of millions of dollars in new capital. With this new money, lenders gave more to home-builders on riskier projects. ''You had dollars dialing for deals and not the other way around,'' said one regulator, who asked not to be named.
But perhaps the most obvious warnings were several measures of the regional economy that were not closely watched by bankers.
Karl E. Case, a professor of economics at Wellesley College, said that starting in the mid-1980's Massachusetts had almost no growth in population or new households.
The reasons for the stagnation should have been obvious. Massachusetts had undergone expansion since unemployment peaked at 12.5 percent in 1975. But by 1987, there were no more incentives for companies to move into the state. The unemployment rate had hit an astonishing low of 2.5 percent. Taxes were high and wages were soaring, so much that McDonald's outlets near Route 128, the Boston area's high-tech corridor, had to pay $7.50 an hour, about double the minimum wage.
And housing prices were growing at almost 40 percent a year, boosting the average cost of a single-family home in the state to $183,000, more than double the national average. ''You had to hit the wall at some time,'' Professor Case said.
But before that came, a vast amount of building was under way.
Professor Case noted that by early 1987, in the five eastern counties of Massachusetts, 129,000 new housing units had been built for 125,000 new households. But while the population leveled off the building continued, so that now, by his estimate, 71,000 extra homes have been built.
''It's the classic hog cycle all over again,'' Professor Case. ''A shortage of hogs pushes prices up, so farmers produce a lot of hogs. Once they are ready for market, everyone realizes there are far too many, but they are forced to sell them anyway, which pushes prices way down.''
He added that while the bust will not be what it was in Texas, ''there is still a lot of pain left out there.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abandoned condominium site in Revere, Mass., beside a completed condominium project that is renting some units and reducing prices on others in the face of slack demand (The New York Times/Jim Bourg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (65%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (65%); BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (56%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON (55%); NEW ENGLAND (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); REVERE (MASS)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; BANKS AND BANKING; CONDOMINIUMS REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



149 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
As a Mayor Returns, Atlanta Is Rich and Poor

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

DATELINE: ATLANTA

 BODY:
THE words had both a familiar ring and a touch of paradox last week when Maynard Jackson was sworn in as Mayor.
''We are going to work hand in glove with our business community, America's most civically responsible business leadership, to solidify the close cooperative relationship that I look forward to sharing with them for the good of Atlanta,'' said Mr. Jackson, who preceded and now succeeds former Mayor Andrew Young.
It was just the sort of tone that Mr. Young set in his eight-year reign as the darling of Atlanta's business establishment. But it was something of a departure for Mr. Jackson, whose relationship with business was often stormy when he served as Atlanta's first black mayor from 1974 to 1981. 
How that relationship will evolve this time is at the heart of the questions surrounding Mr. Jackson's return to City Hall. Atlanta has long been a laboratory for black politics in America, and what develops here poses other issues of national importance about the evolution of black politics at a time of rising black electoral gains.
Mr. Young is widely remembered as the combative, liberal United Nations Ambassador under President Jimmy Carter. But as Mayor of Atlanta, he compiled a record studded with economic accomplishments and an agenda not much different from that of Atlanta's legendary business-oriented mayors like William B. Hartsfield. When Mr. Young left office, the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce gave him a Lincoln Continental and his wife a Cadillac Seville as tokens of appreciation, marking the end of one of the most harmonious meldings of black and white power in the nation.
''I call them the golden years, when Atlanta really came into its own as truly an international and nationally known city,'' said Gerald Bartels, president of the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce. ''And Andy contributed immensely to it. He's not God. He didn't cause all this to happen, but during his tenure Atlanta led the nation in so many different areas.''
But Mr. Young did not please everyone. He angered neighborhood groups by invariably siding with business interests, most notably in the case of two highway projects he opposed as a candidate for office and then supported as Mayor.
Similarly, while he remains personally popular among Atlanta's black middle class, some black civic and political leaders said his administration squandered opportunities to help the poor, who in Atlanta are overwhelmingly black.
''He helped the rich get richer, but the poor just got poorer,'' said State Representative Tyrone Brooks, who like Mr. Young was active in the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s Southern Christian Leadership Conference. ''He has not been good for working people and poor people in Atlanta.''
Mr. Young says the city's prosperity, exemplified by projects like the $142-million revitalization of Underground Atlanta, a downtown entertainment district, provided much economic opportunity for blacks. But he said that there is only so much a mayor can about social problems. ''I was elected mayor, not messiah,'' he said.
 
Signals to Business
Mr. Jackson has sent out signals that he, too, now realizes a need to work well with business. But he also has said that he plans to pay more attention to such problems as homelessness and low-income housing than did Mr. Young, who spent a lot of time jetting around the world promoting Atlanta as a global business center.
Still, most observers say there is a limit to how much a new mayor is likely to change direction.
Merle Black, a professor of politics and government at Emory University, said the choices made by black politicians in Atlanta are not very different from those elsewhere. ''In cities where there are tremendous economic disparities between whites and blacks, any black politician who tries to carry out redistributive programs is going to run into tremendous opposition,'' he said. ''In a sense, black politicians are almost forced into taking what they can get.''
The continuing growth of the black middle class has been a success of the Young years. But many find it sobering that life seems to have become worse, if anything, for the city's black poor at a time of prosperity under black leadership. The crack epidemic and its accompanying crime have particularly afflicted Atlanta's poorer neighborhoods. The most recent Justice Department figures show that the city has the nation's highest crime rate. Similarly, there are few traces of Atlanta's building boom in the city's southside ghettos or even on famed Auburn Avenue, once the heart of the black community.
To some, Mr. Jackson's challenge is also the challenge of black politics in general: finding a way to bring the poor into a society that has become a coalition of the white business leadership and the black middle class.
''Atlanta was important in the 1960's as a pioneer, but it's now the 1990's,'' said Clarence N. Stone, a University of Maryland political scientist and author of a recent book on Atlanta, ''Regime Politics.'' ''The challenge now is whether the system can be made class inclusive as well as race inclusive.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Maynard Jackson (right) meeting with his staff in Atlanta last week (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); ATLANTA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%); ATLANTA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTA (GA)

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (78%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TRENDS (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: YOUNG, ANDREW; JACKSON, MAYNARD (MAYOR); APPLEBOME, PETER JIMMY CARTER (51%); 



150 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
Cuomo Gives A Speech, So Everyone Is Talking

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

DATELINE: ALBANY

 BODY:
NO sooner did Gov. Mario M. Cuomo utter the word ''global'' in his State of the State address last week than many Albany politicians began to speculate out loud that he would run for President in 1992.
''Certainly there was a flavor of national ideas thrown out there that makes one suspect that this Governor is looking beyond our boundaries,'' said the Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, a Long Island Republican. Mr. Marino's remark, delivered at a news conference after the Democratic Governor's speech, was typical of the reaction to Mr. Cuomo's address, which dealt in part with issues like Federal cutbacks and the ''globalization'' of the economy.
But others saw the Governor's speech, with its references to national and international issues, more as an effort to shift attention away from his troubles at home than as a sign of his political intentions.
''It's the old story: when you've got trouble on the home front, declare war,'' said Norman Adler, a political consultant. ''The speech dealt with issues where he is familiar and authoritative and the problems are not his fault.'' 
The Governor certainly is facing his share of troubles on the home front. All the signs indicate that the 1990 legislative session, which officially began with the Governor's address last week, will be more grueling than usual.
The most daunting task will be closing a budget gap for the fiscal year 1991 that is now estimated at almost $1.5 billion. Precisely how Mr. Cuomo plans to meet this challenge will be known in about 10 days, when he is scheduled to present his budget for the fiscal year, which starts in April.
But it is already clear that the Governor's options are limited and almost universally unpopular. They include raising taxes, cutting programs and borrowing from the fund that finances state workers' pensions.
Mr. Cuomo has hinted, although he has not said so directly, that he will propose delaying the next phase of the state's income-tax cut to help close about $400 million of the budget gap. With organized labor and social-service groups backing a delay and New York's business community opposing it, both sides are bracing for a fierce fight.
To compound Mr. Cuomo's economic problems, this is an election year not just for him but for the entire 211-member State Legislature. At stake is who will get to redraw the lines of the state's legislative and Congressional districts after the 1990 Census.
The reapportionment process is controlled by the reigning party in each house of the Legislature. The Legislature's current configuration gives the Republicans control over the Senate - and therefore the Senate district lines - and Democrats control over the Assembly and the Assembly district lines. But the Republican majority in the Senate is thin - 4 seats out of 61 - and likely to be bitterly contested in November. No matter what Mr. Cuomo's national political ambitions are, it is in his interest to keep the speculation about a possible Presidential bid alive as he heads into a gubernatorial election. His ratings in public opinion polls in New York have been highest when the speculation about a Presidential bid has been most feverish.
The Governor's ''linking his national ambitions and his state ambitions keeps both in the limelight,'' said Lee Miringoff, director of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie, which conducts frequent polls on the Governor and on statewide issues.
As the Governor's address last week demonstrated, it has become fairly simple for him to foster the popular perception that he is a Presidential candidate. All he has to do, it seems, is drop a few key phrases like ''global economy'' or ''crippling Federal deficit,'' and the Presidential machinery kicks into high gear.
''There's a whole cottage industry among journalists and political pundits devoted to predicting what Mario Cuomo's intentions are,'' said Kirk O'Donnell, an adviser to Gov. Michael S. Dukakis in the 1988 Presidential campaign.
Indeed, the Governor has over the years made such involved statements about his Presidential ambitions -or lack thereof - that by now he hardly has to say anything at all for the machinery to start up. In 1984, Mr. Cuomo said that if he ran for re-election as Governor in 1986 it would be a sign that he was not running for President in 1988.
Should Mr. Cuomo choose to run this year for a third term as Governor, as he is widely expected to do, politicians and reporters across the country will be listening for a similar statement - or interpreting his silence as telling.
Last week, Mr. Cuomo seemed acutely conscious of the perils of this election-year session. His speech, unusually conversational in tone, dwelt at length on the themes of bipartisanship and collective accomplishment. And with surprising frequency, the Governor mentioned the approaching campaign season.
''This is an election year, guys,'' he said at one point. ''Pay attention.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo at the conclusion of his State of the State address to the Legislature in Albany last week (The New York Times/Sara Krulwich)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: STATE LEGISLATURE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NYS) GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICS (90%); REDISTRICTING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); TAX LAW (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); CENSUS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MARIO M CUOMO (96%); 



151 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Environmental Groups Work With Africa

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Richard Joseph proposes using economic aid to sub-Saharan developing countries as leverage for human rights (''Glasnost for Africa,'' Op-Ed, Dec. 28). Three United States conservation organizations (the Sierra Club, Natural Resources Defense Council and American Farmland Trust) are using the growing power of environment politics to increase popular participation in planning development projects in Africa. 
Real progress with Africa's environmental problems will only come with the full participation of all elements of society, including women's groups, local development and farming cooperatives, and local business groups. Policies that include these grass roots in decision making are necessary. Such action is at the crux of the strategy behind the three groups working to bring independent African nongovernmental organizations, or N.G.O.'s, into a dialogue with the African Development Bank, a multilateral development bank and a major investor with influence on African governments.
The dialogue, called the N.G.O. Outreach Project, will help empower these nongovernmental organizations by greatly increasing their role in public debate over African environmental issues. Until recently, the local communities of Africa have commonly been out of the loop when nations and banks decide on the future of Africa's limited resources. Their inclusion will work to promote their role as democratic instruments in African societies.
With this initiative United States environmental groups are changing too. Their methods have been criticized by African leaders as ''neo-colonialist'' in approach, more concerned with animals than people, while attempting to decide African priorities from Washington armchairs. Our outreach project allows United States environmentalists to take the lead in bringing changes to their own policies, while providing an important platform for nonofficial African leaders who are at the forefront of nongovernment efforts in nation building.
 
W. PAUL WEATHERLY
Coordinator, N.G.O. Outreach Project, American Farmland Trust
 Washington, Dec. 29, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (56%); AMERICAN FARMLAND TRUST (84%); AMERICAN FARMLAND TRUST (84%); SIERRA CLUB (58%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (58%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (58%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%); AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (56%); AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (56%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FARMLAND TRUST

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFRICA

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: WEATHERLY, W PAUL



152 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4012 words

HEADLINE: CONFIDENT AT 11, CONFUSED AT 16

BYLINE: By FRANCINE PROSE: Francine Prose is a novelist and critic. Her most recent book is a collection of stories, ''Women and Children First.''

 BODY:
THE ATMOSPHERE IN CAROLJU Gilligan's office at the Harvard Graduate School of Education could hardly be less like my own days as a Harvard graduate student - those seminars mired in torpor from which students were periodically roused by revivifying jolts of pedagogical bad temper. Professor Gilligan's faculty and student colleagues at the Project on the Psychology of Women and the Development of Girls seem relaxed and almost unaccountably buoyant as they gather around the conference table on a rainy Cambridge morning to describe their current work. Indeed the only face in the room that seems less than fully engaged is that of Virginia Woolf, gazing wistfully into the distance from a photograph on the wall.
Perhaps one reason for the group's collective good humor is that Gilligan and her associates see their mission as extending beyond abstract clinical research. As the title of their latest work, ''Strengthening Healthy Resistance and Courage in Girls,'' suggests, they're seeking ways to intervene in the developmental process actively, to help girls weather the crises occasioned by adolescence. 
Now the results of a major phase in this project have appeared in a new book. ''Making Connections: The Relational Worlds of Adolescent Girls at Emma Willard School'' draws on data collected during a five-year study of students at a private girls' school in Troy, N.Y. Gilligan decided to focus on Willard after she was approached by the school's former principal, the late Robert C. Parker. ''The school had a question,'' she says. '' 'How can we make intelligent decisions about girls' education without knowing about their psychological development?' '' In the Dodge Study, as it's officially known - funds were provided by the Geraldine Rockefeller Dodge Foundation - extensive interviews and sentence completion tests were used to explore girls' attitudes toward friendship and leadership, sexual morality, politics and violence.
What interviewers kept hearing as they questioned their subjects was that many girls, around the age of 11, go through what Gilligan and her colleagues have come to call a ''moment of resistance'' - that is, a sharp and particular clarity of vision, an almost perfect confidence in what they know and see, a belief in their integrity and in their highly complex responsibilities toward the world. ''Eleven-year-olds are not for sale,'' says Gilligan.
''I looked at girls at four different age groups, from 7 and 8 years old up to 15 and 16,'' says Lyn Mikel Brown, just appointed to the Harvard ed school faculty. ''And the younger girls had a real sense of outspokenness, of claiming their own sense of authority in the world, being very honest about relationships and the things that hurt them.'' Responding to the sentence completion tests, the younger girls came up with what Annie Rogers, another member of the faculty, calls ''outrageously wonderful statements. One of them was, 'What gets me in trouble is - chewing gum and not tucking my shirt in,' and then, in parentheses, 'but it's usually worth it.' ''
But as they get older the girls seem to undergo a kind of crisis in response to adolescence and to the strictures and demands of the culture which, in Gilligan's view, sends a particular message to women: ''Keep quiet and notice the absence of women and say nothing.'' Or as a graduate student, Elizabeth Debold, says: ''Girls don't see themselves being what the culture is about. And that has to give them some kind of double vision.''
''And by 15 or 16,'' says Gilligan, ''that resistance has gone underground. They start saying, 'I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.' They start not knowing what they had known.''
This observation may cause many women to feel an almost eerie shiver of recognition, and inspire them to rethink that period in their lives. It will also be interesting to monitor the responses from psychologists and feminist theorists, for ''Making Connections'' may well oblige traditional psychology to formulate a more accurate theory of female adolescence (an area that's been virtually ignored until now). Ideally, parents, teachers and therapists who work with girls have begun to find ways to prevent them from ''going underground.''
IN A PROLOGUE TO ''MAKING CONNECTIONS,'' Gilligan provides an overview of the larger issues raised by her book (in effect a collection of essays written individually and collectively by Dodge study team members):
''Each essay originated with a question that arose or became clarified in the experience of the research. No attempt has been made to unify these essays or arrive at a central thesis, beyond a common intention to listen for the ways in which girls orchestrate themes of connection and separation and concerns about care and justice in speaking about themselves, about their relationships, and about their experiences of conflict.'' The researchers drew on a broad and various sample of the student population at Willard, an elite school with a substantial number of pupils on scholarship. In one-on-one interviews, teams of researchers asked the same girls at different ages questions like: ''How would you describe yourself to yourself? Who is someone you admire? Could you describe a situation in which you had to make a decision and you weren't sure what was the right thing to do?'' In addition, girls were given the Washington University Sentence Completion Test, asked to finish 37 sentences such as: ''A woman should always-;'' ''Rules are-''; ''What gets me into trouble is-''; ''My conscience bothers me if-'', and so on.
For the chapter ''Unfairness and Not Listening,'' Gilligan asked 34 girls to describe a situation they felt was unfair. (''The fact that the United States backs counterrevolutionaries in Nicaragua, that's unfair. . . . The United States was built on a revolution.'') In ''Competencies and Visions,'' 22 student leaders and 26 ''nonleaders'' were asked questions about authority and power - such as ''What does leadership mean to you?'' Writing on ''Racial Identity Formation and Transformation,'' Janie Victoria Ward, a Simmons College faculty member, interviewed seven minority girls over a four-year period and asked them to describe what it means to be a black woman - how that view had changed over time, and how they expected it to develop. ('' 'It means it's going to be hard,' was a prediction echoed by all.'') Gilligan's discovery of a crisis in female adolescence is thought-provoking and intriguing, but hardly, it would seem, incendiary - until one realizes how small a spark it takes to kindle a conflagration in the academic psychology establishment. Since the 1982 publication of her first book, ''In a Different Voice: Psychological Theory and Women's Development,'' Carol Gilligan's work has generated heated debate in a field in which it is still thought fairly radical to suggest that women's development might be fundamentally different from men's.
The controversial nature of her research has provoked intense hostility on the part of academics, but it has also made her the object of almost cult-like veneration. ''In a Different Voice'' has sold more than 360,000 copies to date. Asked how they came to work with Carol Gilligan, research associates and doctoral candidates tell stories reminiscent of novitiate accounts of being guided to study with this or that perfect master; Lyn Mikel Brown half ironically credits ''divine intervention.'' But though Gilligan - one of the notably few tenured women at Harvard - has clearly ''established the voice'' of the project since it was founded in 1983, one senses none of the toadying and subtle intimidation typical of academic life. ''It's not just Carol's work,'' says a graduate student, Deb Tolman.''It's our work.''
BORN IN 1936, CAROL GILLIGAN grew up in Manhattan, attended Swarthmore College and received her doctorate in clinical psychology from Harvard for a thesis called ''Responses to Temptation in Analysis of Motives,'' in which she demonstrated that young children who had been read stories about Andrew Carnegie and the robber barons were more likely to cheat than those who had been read narratives in which groups of children were shown acting honorably and loyally.
After she received her doctorate, Carol Gilligan left Harvard in some disaffection. ''The things that attracted me to psychology - the complex renderings of relationships and feelings and the moments when peoples' lives go this way or that way - were not to be found in the academic world.'' She married Jim Gilligan - now a psychiatrist currently writing a book about violence in our culture - and had three sons, the oldest of whom is 28.
During the 1960's and early 70's, Gilligan was active in the peace and civil rights movements, worked as a dancer with an interracial modern dance company in Cleveland, then moved back to New England and began teaching part time at Harvard as a section leader in Erik Erikson's course on the life cycle. She is now a professor of education. Much about her still suggests the former dancer, the early-60's Cambridge bohemian, the long-haired, willowy young women one used to see marching with backpacks and baby strollers behind banners bearing the logo of Another Mother for Peace. The germ of ''In a Different Voice,'' the book that established Gilligan's rep-(Continued on Page 37) utation, was an essay she wrote in 1975, ''sitting at my kitchen table'' in the hope of ''putting to rest certain things that had been bothering me since high school and all through graduate school'' - questions mostly about the role of gender in psychological development and maturation. Among the issues that Gilligan raised - and that even her severest critics acknowledge as a valid and important aspect of her work - is that very few of the landmark psychological studies had included women. The models of the ''healthy'' and desirable life cycle had all been based on the lives of men. Using data generated by three research studies (one involved 25 Harvard students, another drew its subjects from women considering abortion, and the third involved 144 males and females at nine separate points in the life cycle), ''In a Different Voice'' posited the existence of two contrapuntal interior moral voices. One of these voices attends to abstract principles such as justice; the other (Gilligan often chooses metaphors from music) is scored in the more dulcet key of human connection and care - that is, this second voice asks how a moral decision will hurt or help the people involved.
''The occasion for this observation,'' Gilligan wrote, ''was the selection of a sample of women for a study of the relation between judgment and action in a situation of moral conflict and choice.'' What she discovered was that the ethical distinctions women made were different from those of men: ''It was then that I began to notice the recurrent problems in interpreting women's development and to connect these problems to the repeated exclusion of women from the critical theory-building studies of psychological research.''
One ''recurrent problem'' Gilligan identified was that previous studies - based largely on male subjects - interpreted the ability to reason from abstract principles as a sign of having reached the highest plane of moral development. But when women were tested (confronted with classical ethics dilemmas - should a poor man whose wife is dying steal the drugs she needs, etc.), many of them apparently failed to reach the ''higher'' level of putting justice first, and so in the language of the profession were classified as ''low stage respondents.'' What Gilligan suggested was that the second moral voice (which she termed the ''care voice'' as opposed to the ''justice voice'') was not fundamentally inferior and less highly evolved, but simply different - more concerned with human relationships than with abstract principles. This corrective was understandably cheering to many female psychologists and graduate students who had been dismayed to find themselves and their sex viewed as morally undeveloped.
Gilligan's essay circulated among colleagues and friends, then appeared in Harvard Education Review and, finally, in an expanded version, in the 1982 book that brought Gilligan national attention - a development in her life that has not been entirely positive. Visibility has embroiled her in time-consuming and distracting controversy but has in practical ways enabled her to continue pursuing the questions that drove her to write that first draft at the kitchen table. Now, as she sits drinking coffee in the sunny kitchen of her airy pre-Civil War Cambridge house, her strong-boned face goes visibly slack with fatigue as she discusses the controversy that greeted ''In a Different Voice.'' ''In 1985, I was invited to participate in a symposium at a meeting, in Toronto, of the Society for Research in Child Development. I looked on the program and I saw that the symposium 'In A Different Voice' was scheduled in the ballroom. There must have been 2,000 people in the room, every senior person in the field, many of them defenders of the ancien regime.
''I was on a panel with three women criticizing me. And Eleanor Maccoby'' - a professor emeritus of psychology at Stanford - ''began by telling a joke. She said that a male colleague had just stopped her in the hall and asked, 'Are you going to the shootout at the O.K.
 
Corral?' ''
Certainly it is a barometer of the rarefied air breathed in some academic circles that one of the most hotly debated questions at that panel was: Are there gender distinctions beyond the obvious reproductive functions? However logical it might seem to the casual observer that profound differences in male and female life experience might foster different ways of perceiving the world, this possibility has been vehemently contested in academia; the first volleys of that high-minded shootout continue to echo in the pages of scholarly journals. Yet even those who share Gilligan's beliefs that male/female differences do exist often disagree with her analysis of what those differences are.
Linda Kerber, May Brodbeck Professor in the Liberal Arts and professor of history at the University of Iowa, was one of the contributors to an interdisciplinary forum that appeared in ''Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society.'' Like many of Gilligan's critics, Kerber was disturbed by Gilligan's apparent reinforcement of the stereotypical view of women as more nurturant, nicer, less likely to be moved by the harsh voice of justice than by the kinder promptings of care. Gilligan's focus on the ''care voice'' in women, says Kerber, recalls the ''romantic sentimentalism of old voices in the women's movement, with their notions of women as more peaceable than men.''
Kerber also complains that Gilligan's work ignores certain realities of economics and race, the possibility that one's social and moral attitudes have less to do with gender than with power. ''Marginality is the real issue,'' Kerber insists. ''Women become critics of society because they're on the fringes of society.''
Gilligan professes astonishment that she has been so consistently misread. The project's work, she points out, has included several studies designed to examine moral development across a wide sampling of economic and ethnic groups. One study, directed by Janie Victoria Ward, has focused on racial identity and psychological development among black and white girls and boys in Roxbury, South Boston, and Charlestown, asking the same questions about self-description, moral crisis and relationships that the more privileged research subjects had been asked. ''Care kids work hard to resist violence and to find ways to prevent violence,'' says Ward. ''At 11, they know when it's time to intervene.''
In another study, Jill McLean Taylor and Deb Tolman have been following groups of minority students considered at risk for early pregnancy or dropping out, using the same method of clinical interviews and sentence completion tests. One of their hypotheses is that leaving school constitutes, for many of these students, a form of moral resistance. Tolman says: ''They're holding on to a vision of the world that is very true for them, compared to what they're learning at school, which in terms of their experience is patently ridiculous.'' As for the accusation that she makes rigid and artificial distinctions between men and women, Gilligan says, ''It's so far from my life and experience to think I could line up 'caring' women vs. 'just' men.'' As proof of her belief that both voices exist in both sexes, she cites the fact that ''In a Different Voice'' begins with a section of dialogue from Chekhov, who was of course exquisitely capable of writing from both male and female points of view. ''What am I showing women doing?'' she says, referring to the fact that some of her critical data on moral choice came from a study of women deciding whether to terminate pregnancy - an act that by definition contradicts the stereotype of the nurturant female. ''I'm showing them having abortions. 'Care' isn't simply a matter of being 'the nice girl' or 'the perfect woman' - it's about being responsible to oneself as well as to others.''
It may be that Gilligan has expected her readers to meet her rather more than halfway, to intuit a new definition of ''care'' from her idiosyncratic usage of it and grasp from a reference to Chekhov that her notions of male/female difference aren't as ironclad as they may appear. ''There's so much argument between Gilligan and her critics about what she said, what she meant, what she intended,'' suggests Linda Kerber. ''It must go back to her failure to find words to accurately express her thoughts.''
Unhappily, the problems of clarity that marred ''In a Different Voice'' haven't been entirely eradicated in ''Making Connections.'' While some of the essays are admirably lucid, others are obscured by murky academic psychologese, complete with less than helpful and almost self-parodic appendices and charts. But for the most part, Gilligan's new book is more straightforward than her first one. By concentrating on girls, the project's new studies avoid the muddle of gender comparisons and the issue of whether boys experience a similar ''moment of resistance.'' Gilligan and her colleagues are simply telling us how girls sound at two proximate but radically dissimilar stages of growing up.
In explaining this difference, project members often refer to one of their interview subjects, a 12-year-old named Tanya who was a classic ''resister.'' On behalf of a homesick younger cousin, Tanya bravely challenged a summer camp rule against campers calling home - she believed and acted upon her conviction that ''people are more important than rules.'' By 15, however, Tanya seemed to have lost some of that uncompromising moral purity, and told an interviewer of having signed ''love'' to a letter she wrote to someone she did not love. What emerges from talks with Gilligan and her associates is their disbelief and dismay at repeatedly seeing a morally articulate preadolescent transformed into an apologetic, hesitant teen-ager who prefaces every opinion with ''this may sound mediocre but. . . .'' These teen-agers' syntax ''is like a sailboat tacking,'' says Gilligan. ''One sentence goes this way. Another sentence goes that way.''
The source of the change, in Gilligan's view, is that, during adolescence, girls come up against ''the wall of Western culture,'' and begin to seeJU (Continued on Page 45) that their clearsightedness may be dangerous and seditious; in consequence they learn to hide and protect what they know - not only to censor themselves but ''to think in ways that differ from what they really think.''
Perhaps Gilligan's most radical challenge to traditional developmental psychology is her emphasis on collectivity - in contrast to ''individuation,'' the establishment of an autonomous self that has until now been seen to mark the highest stage of personality development. The practical benefits of encouraging young people's talent for collaboration are already being felt at schools like Emma Willard, where, in the aftermath of the Dodge Study, teachers and administrators have redoubled their commitment to listen to what girls really have to say. Many Emma Willard students, says Acting Principal Trudy Hanmer, had been ''very bright, very articulate, very verbal sixth graders who somehow had changed. They'd got quiet.'' Consequently the school ''demands participation from everyone, until girls who were quiet as freshmen are, by their sophomore or junior year, saying 'I have an opinion that counts.' '' Hanmer describes a dramatic rise in the quiz scores of geography students who were organized into map study groups and told that their grades would be the average of all the group members' scores. Relieved of the necessity to compete with their peers, the girls achieved ''extraordinarily high grades. Almost everyone got a perfect score.''
In the search for more active ways of ''strengthening healthy resistance and courage in girls,'' Gilligan and her colleagues took a group of 11-year-olds from the Atrium School in Watertown, Mass., a suburb of Boston, on a weeklong outing last summer during which they wrote, drew and did theater work designed to help the girls function as a group and, as Annie Rogers says, ''talk about things they wouldn't ordinarily talk about and bring their voices right out into theJU public.
''And it worked wonderfully. It did just what we wanted it to do. The kids had to direct and listen to one another, they wrote some beautiful pieces and did some really interesting drawings and formed a community among themselves.'' These girls will be the subject of follow-up studies for three years, and this year another ''Sixth Grade Writing and Outing Club'' - its members drawn from Cambridge public schools - will visit the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and Old Sturbridge Village. The girls will also keep journals - in order, says Gilligan, ''to amplify their voices for themselves'' before these voices can be quieted or silenced.
Carol Gilligan often speaks of her most recent work as ''very new'' and ''very fragile,'' and again one hears a weariness creep into her voice, as if she is anticipating in advance all the objections that will be raised - debates she fears will resemble those that greeted ''In a Different Voice.'' One can imagine the discussions of whether 11-year-olds are really more or less morally advanced than their older sisters, or what sorts of resistance boys go through when, like the supreme resister, J. D. Salinger's Holden Caulfield, they attempt to hold out against ''the phoniness'' of adult society. These debates could continue to obscure the real difficulties experienced by women (and men) who, as children, learned to doubt what they know.
Exploring what Freud called ''the dark continent'' of female psychology, Carol Gilligan describes feeling ''like a 19th-century naturalist,'' and she and her colleagues seem to share a Darwinian sense of mission to excavate the hidden chambers of a common buried past. One can't help noting an extraordinary degree of personal commitment, an appreciation of the connections between their own lives and those of the girls they are studying. ''For me,'' says Gilligan's colleague Elizabeth Debold, ''the issues that we're dealing with are issues about my life.''
Hearing Carol Gilligan describe the joy and physical freedom of playing tag at the beach with the Sixth Grade Outing Club, one is moved by an almost spooky sense that what she and her colleagues are unearthing is that moment in their own pasts during which they ''went underground.''
''The thing that's so powerful about studying girls,'' Gilligan says, ''is that it takes you back. You remember how you moved in the world, how your body felt when you were 11. You remember how you were with your friends, how your life was - what it was like.''

GRAPHIC: Cover photo of 3 young girls being interviewed by Harvard Graduate students; photos of Carol Gilligan, right, and her colleagues Normi Noel, left, and Annie Rogers left, background, during an exercise with fifth graders designed to help girls work well in groups. (Keith Carter) (pg. 22); Kristin, age 12 (Keith Carter) (pg. 23); Anjum and Lauren, age 17) (Keith Carter) (pg. 24); Fabienne and Molly, age 15 and 10 (Keith Carter) (pg. 25); Catherine, age 15 (Keith Carter) (pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); 

PERSON: PROSE, FRANCINE; GILLIGAN, CAROL (PROF) MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



153 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: On Language;
Trick or Treaty?

BYLINE: BY WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
WE ALL REMEMBER the names of old battles and wars, but few of us are attuned to the nomenclature of peacemaking. ''Faraway Places With Strange-Sounding Names,'' as the song had it, form the basis of much of the language of treatying. Worldly economists and geopolitical scientists - the sort of people who begin their questions with given and begin their answers with absent - like to stud their argot with pact-impact.
When the Soviet Prime Minister recently announced a Five Year Plan that sounded like recycled Old Thinking, the Soviet economist Pavel Bunich rose in Moscow to denounce the compromises as an ''economic Brest-Litovsk.''
They all shuddered at the recollection in the Supreme Soviet, but only a relative handful of diplolinguists outside the Soviet Union caught the allusion: in 1918, at the town of Brest-Litovsk in eastern Poland, Germany and the other Central Powers took Russia to the cleaners, forcing the new Bolshevik regime to sign a treaty surrendering a vast area, including much of the Ukraine. After the Allies in World War I (which was at first called the Great War, not pessimistically numbered World War I) defeated the Central Powers with no help from Russia, Lenin abrogated the humiliating treaty with the beaten Germans; Stalin later justified an arms buildup to avoid ''another Brest-Litovsk.'' 
At a time of tectonic shift in world affairs, foreign-affairs types like to spice up their analyses with references to old treaties.
The more arcane, the better. Another Munich is much too widely understood by average people as the symbol of appeasement, just as another Yalta carries overtones of ''secret agreements'' to suspicious newspaper readers everywhere. The trick in diplolingo, city-name division, is to refer to unfamiliar places or events far back in history.
I caught myself pulling this stunt the other day, suggesting that worried Europeans hold ''another Congress of Vienna''; that was the meeting in 1814-15 dominated by Francis I of Austria, Alexander I of Russia and Frederick William III of Prussia to decide the fate of the nations of Europe.
''Risking a Second Rapallo'' was the headline over a Washington Times column by Patrick Buchanan. My old speechwriting colleague used the word in this attention-grabbing way: ''Rapallo! Inevitable consequence of Germanophobia.'' Whenever you have the need to describe a diplomatic end-around by a couple of losers at the expense of the would-be winners, try ''another Rapallo''; that was the treaty signed in Italy by Germany and Russia (your remember them from Brest-Litovsk) in 1922 recognizing each other and renouncing war claims; France and the other Allies were outraged at the deal between the two pariah nations, in effect ending the isolation imposed upon them since the Treaty of Versailles. (That was the treaty that ended World War I, and the harshness of its terms was later claimed by some Germans to be the reason for resentment and the rise of Hitler; ''another Versailles'' is now a treaty whose severe terms motivate the loser to vengeance, or revanchism.) How about a sweeping deal to deal comprehensively with all the problems of the continent? Try ''another Locarno pact,'' a confabulation in the Swiss Alps that was hailed in 1925 by Aristide Briand, French Foreign Minister. as ''the first concrete step toward a United States of Europe.'' (They're still leaving footprints in that concrete.) This gathering was noted for the spirit of Locarno, perhaps the first conjuring of ''the spirit of'' at international conferences. In the pact, Germany waived claims to Alsace and Lorraine - long a sore point with France - and this led to Germany's admission to the League of Nations; Locarno was renounced by Hitler in 1936, and ''another Locarno'' is an example of an idealistic scheme soon to be shattered.
Want to sow the seeds of long-range trouble? Try ''another Potsdam,'' which split up Germany after World War II, and then recognized the Polish and Soviet occupation of German territory east of the Oder and Neisse Rivers, pending a peace treaty that has never been signed. When East and West Germany unify, Europe's attention will be fixed on the border that now separates East Germany from Poland; many Germans will turn what the Soviets will call revanchist.
Potsdam could be said to have produced another Peace of Tilsit, in which Napoleon and Alexander I forced the Prussian leader to give up much of the land west of the Elbe. Think about that: Do we want another Peace of Tilsit? Just asking the question intimidates your interlocutors.
Fair Exchange?
IN JUNE 1989, PRESIdent Bush announced he was cutting off all ''high-level exchanges of Government officials . . . in response to the wave of violence and reprisals by the Chinese authorities against those who have called for democracy.''
Six months later, Frank Sesno of Cable News Network revealed that Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, had secretly traveled to Beijing within a month after Mr. Bush's statement. When asked about this, the White House issued a statement contending that resuming a dialogue with the Chinese was ''to personally underscore the United States' shock and concern. . . .''
When asked at a news conference about this apparent discrepancy in what had been said and done about high-level contacts, the President corrected the questioner: ''I said, 'No high-level exchanges.' ''
In the President's mind, evidently, a contact is synonymous with a dialogue but is not synonymous with an exchange.
What, in the language of diplomacy, is an exchange? Margaret D. Tutwiler, the State Department spokesman, acknowledged that ''it's not playing a word game'' and took a crack at defining it: ''An exchange falls into the category of - for instance, when we were at the Treasury Department, we led a delegation'' that continued a series of visits to China. But this year, ''that was canceled . . . any number of exchanges have been ceased.''
A reporter tried to help, referring to a recent meeting between James A. Baker and the Chinese Foreign Minister: ''When the Secretary [James A. Baker 3d] met Qian Qichen in Paris, he told us that this was not an exchange because it took place in a third country and that he said exchanges were when officials went from one country to the other. The second Scowcroft-Eagleburger mission, I gather, was considered an exchange?''
Ms. Tutwiler, perhaps sensing she was being entrapped, went out of the synonymy business: ''I don't know if it was characterized as an exchange, was it characterized as a contact; it happened.''
Let's try others. George Jones, vice president of the American Foreign Service Association, defined diplomatic contact as ''a term applied to a person who's the source of information for a diplomat or to the initiation of relations between two countries.'' Bernard Kalb, veteran diplomatic correspondent and State spokesman who's now busy on a writing project, stated: ''The difference between diplomatic contact and diplomatic exchange is diplomatic gibberish.''
Contact, rooted in the Latin for ''touching,'' has a diplomatic meaning of ''communication'' in its broadest sense; exchange, rooted in cambire, Latin for ''barter,'' has the diplomatic meaning of ''transaction,'' which includes discussions and reciprocal visits. Dialogue, rooted in ''to talk between,'' is closer in diplomatic meaning to exchange.
Thus, Mr. Bush can claim his promise of ''no exchanges'' was kept; he never said ''no contact.'' However, this recalls the old punch line, ''But I never said positively'' and puts us all on guard: the President may be narrowly construing what he says, and may not always mean what he seems to mean.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (91%); UKRAINE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); POLAND (79%); FRANCE (77%); AUSTRIA (72%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ENGLISH LANGUAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TREATIES WORLD WAR I (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); EAGLEBURGER, LAWRENCE S (DEPUTY SEC); SCOWCROFT, BRENT



154 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2814 words

HEADLINE: HEIDEGGER FOR FUN AND PROFIT

BYLINE: By ANTHONY GOTTLIEB; Anthony Gottlieb, the science and technology editor of the British weekly The Economist, is a doctoral student in philosophy at University College, London.

 BODY:
Martin Heidegger's centenary year has come and gone, and just as well. It came at a bad time. In Berkeley, New Haven, Moscow, Chicago, Paris and Marburg (and other places besides), conferences and parties have been celebrating the philosopher's birth. Two or three years ago, when these jamborees were planned, it was still possible for most people to write off Heidegger's flirtation with Nazism as merely that - a foolish minor entanglement, which Hannah Arendt, who was briefly his lover, could generously attribute ''partly to the delusion of genius, partly to desperation.''
Those days of innocence are gone, thanks largely to the German historian Hugo Ott, whose biography of Heidegger was published in German at the end of 1988, and Victor Farias's ''Heidegger and Nazism,'' which has just been published here. Even his supporters now have to admit that Heidegger was and remained a wholly convinced Nazi, organizing paramilitary camps for his students, spouting martial rhetoric about the ''inner truth and greatness of National Socialism,'' and denouncing colleagues - including his own teacher - as Jews. The jurors at the denazification hearings in 1945, which more or less cleared his name and made his rehabilitation possible, were hoodwinked. 
That old deception has far-reaching effects today. Instead of being shunned, Heidegger went on to have an enormous influence on European thought - as much, if not more, in France as in Germany - and he has a growing camp of followers in the United States. Herbert Marcuse, Sartre, Foucault and Jacques Derrida all acknowledged him as a (if not the) main influence on their thought. The early Jacques Derrida doubted whether he could say anything not already said by Heidegger. Today, Mr. Derrida - like many other French thinkers - is performing intellectual contortions to expunge the stain of Nazism.
And Heidegger is currently one of the best-represented philosophers on American bookshop shelves. But it is not academics and their students in the mainstream ''analytic'' tradition of British and American philosophy who read him. Such philosophers tend mostly to divide into two camps: those who believe his writings are largely gibberish and those who believe they are entirely gibberish. Heidegger's American readers are cultural, literary and political theorists, all manner of social scientists, students of Continental thought and literature, and the dippers and browsers of college bookstores. The unlikeliest part of his following, however, consists of an amorphous entity calling itself the applied Heidegger movement. Last September, the first Applied Heidegger Conference, in Berkeley, Calif., attracted about 200 people working in medicine and various kinds of therapy, some 100 people from the computer industry, and another 100 who identified themselves as involved in business management. The conferees discussed the impact of Heidegger on their work - however tenuous it may have seemed, to this listener at least; there were also lectures by philosophers, theologians and one lone psychiatrist, a one-time friend of Heidegger himself.
What accounts for Heidegger's strangely diverse appeal? Allan Bloom, in perhaps the most puzzling of the obiter dicta in his book ''The Closing of the American Mind,'' says that Heidegger's teachings are ''the most powerful intellectual force in our times.'' He also describes him as ''the most interesting thinker of our century.'' Mr. Bloom does not attempt to share any of the most interesting thoughts of the century with his readers. Indeed, it would be hard to work out what Heidegger thought about anything from Mr. Bloom's pages. This is perhaps appropriate, since it is hard enough to work out what Heidegger thought from his own writings. Even his followers joke that Heidegger is untranslatable, even into German.
That may be part of the secret of his success. He is the ideal bluffer's philosopher. Armed with a volume of Heidegger you can prattle away with apparent profundity and it will be very hard for anybody to prove that you have misunderstood Heidegger or said something obviously false. Heidegger invented a new language: immensely loquacious, ponderous, repetitive, heavy and Teutonic - a sort of Bruckner without the music - which Herbert Spiegelberg, an acute historian of philosophy, described in 1965 as ''apt to create a twilight of uncritical semi-understanding among the gullible.''
In his novel ''Dog Years,'' Gunter Grass parodies Heideggerese in the character of a German Air Force auxiliary named Stortebeker, who ''created a philosophical schoolboy language that was soon prattled by many, with varying success.'' Every commonplace incident or object can be rechristened in Stortebeker/Heidegger's hilarious language. Underdone potatoes in the mess kitchen, for example, are ''spuds forgetful of Being.''
Stortebeker relaxes by catching rats, so they are the object of some of his best ruminations: ''The rat withdraws itself by unconcealing itself into the ratty. So the rat errates the ratty, illuminating it with errancy. For the ratty has come-to-be in the errancy where the rat errs and so fosters error.''
Heidegger really did write like that (though not about rats). A shoal of hyphens swimming in a sea of confusing neologisms are the marks of his prose. (''But as soon as the essence of being resides in whatness [idea], whatness, as the being of the essent, becomes that which is most beingful in an essent'' is a not untypical sentence.) But he had his reasons - almost understandable ones - for trying to create a new language, however comical it sounds to the uninitiated. Heidegger was attempting what he saw as nothing less than a revolution in man's understanding of what it is to be. The new order needed a new language, or so he thought. Here is a sketch of his attempted putsch.
The key idea is his rejection of the notion that man's relation to the world is one of subject to object. He rejected Descartes's model of man as a self that is conscious of the objects that make up the external world, and doubting his own ability to know. To illustrate this, Heidegger has a telling example of a man hammering a nail. He points out that unless something goes wrong (for example, if the hammer breaks) the hammerer is not aware of his tool as an object at all. He just gets on with it. Conscious awareness of an object is just not part of the job.
Heidegger held that much, if not most, human activity is unguided by conscious awareness. It is selfless absorption in a task. Something similar is true, he thought, of ethical behavior. Instead of being a matter of deliberate, conscious choices between alternative courses of action, most ethical behavior is - and should be - largely automatic. Instead of trying to follow abstract principles, people should try to be ''authentic.'' They should have the sort of understanding of themselves and the world that lets them respond automatically (in an appropriate manner) to whatever situation presents itself.
This is the part of Heidegger's thought that most influenced Sartre and the existentialists. The void created by existentialist anxiety - the recognition that there are no abstract principles to follow - is filled by nonrational commitment. With hindsight, it can also be seen as the part of Heidegger's work that meshes with inspirational totalitarian movements such as Nazism. The rhetoric of destiny, of a driving current of history to which man must commit himself, dovetails all too easily with some of Heidegger's early thinking, particularly his main work, ''Sein und Zeit'' (''Being and Time'') which was first published in 1927.
His later work developed several new themes. For one thing, his writing became more historical. He tried to give an account of man's understanding of the nature of being in different epochs - especially in ancient Greece - leading up to the 20th-century view of life, which he found to be deeply flawed. In particular, he regarded it as overly technological, by which he meant that modern man saw everything, even himself, as a resource to be exploited to the maximum efficiency. Salvation was to be found in overcoming this technological view of life - an ever-popular theme. In Heidegger's case it resulted in a romantic idealization of German rural life. He came to enjoy simple pastimes, and sometimes seems to have thought that drinking local wine in a forest hut was the pinnacle of human achievement.
Despite their historical turn, Heidegger's works did not become any easier to understand. If anything, they became more difficult as he sank ever deeper into his own tortuous neologisms and crank etymology. As part of his intensifying reflection on language itself, he came to espouse perhaps his least original, and certainly one of his least plausible, theses. He came to think that language is what creates the world we inhabit. It is by virtue of having a certain vocabulary and way of speaking, he thought, that we are capable of drawing distinctions; and it is the distinctions we draw that make the world. But there have been many objections to this - for example, that all sorts of skills, from that of the chess master to that of a musician, involve grasping distinctions that have no expression in language.
So is any of this worth believing? Do deep philosophical truths really follow from the fact that you do not ruminate about hammers while you are hanging a picture? The question does not usually arise. Like anthropologists struggling to understand a completely alien culture, most people who have tried to understand what Heidegger is saying have found it impossible to do so without first joining him in saying it. And once you start speaking Heideggerese, it is difficult to extricate yourself from his ideas, and therefore to criticize them. Mainstream philosophers, for example, have never come up with a satisfactory account that translates Heidegger into their own language. So they have usually just picked a few baffling sentences out of his work, chortled derisively and moved on. That should change very soon, with the publication this year of Hubert Dreyfus's ''Being-in-the-World.'' The fruit of 25 years of teaching the subject at Berkeley, it is undoubtedly one of the clearest accounts of Heidegger's thought to date. Philosophers may still reject the ideas, but at least they will be able to get clearer about why.
More than anything else it is probably Mr. Dreyfus's teaching that is responsible - quite unintentionally - for the applied Heidegger movement. His pupils have fanned out into the world, taking Heidegger (or what they believe to be Heidegger) with them - and, together with their own students, they have formed the loose federation of Heideggerians. The movement is largely a matter of slogans, catchwords and half-digested theses, all of which echo Heidegger in varying degrees. The nurses and therapists are keen on what Heidegger had to say about the dehumanizing effects of technology. They find in him an intellectual foundation for the idea that it is better to listen to patients and be kind to them than it is to plug them into machines and leave them alone. Does that piece of common sense really need an intellectual foundation? It is an odd bedside manner that can be improved by reading Heidegger. Probably, few of these devotees do read him; but they certainly pepper their talk with some of his jargon. A slightly more sophisticated application of Heidegger can be found in the extraordinary career of Fernando Flores, one of Mr. Dreyfus's ex-pupils, who is surely one of very few people to become a millionaire because of Heidegger. Mr. Flores was Chile's finance minister in the Allende Government and was imprisoned when Allende fell. Amnesty International got him out of jail and brought him to Berkeley, where he wrote a doctoral dissertation on the unlikely subject of Heidegger and office work, under the supervision of Professor Dreyfus and Prof. John Searle. He subsequently started a software company, Action Technologies, that sells ''Heideggerian'' communications software, and an educational organization, Logonet, which gives seminars to managers, also, according to Mr. Flores, influenced by Heidegger, among others. In 1986, Mr. Flores published what has become a cult book, ''Understanding Computers and Cognition,'' together with Terry Winograd, a professor of computer science at Stanford University, who was one of the pioneers of artificial intelligence. The book is not too hard but rather too simple to summarize. As with the Heideggerian nurses' opposition to the abuse of technology, it is difficult to believe that anybody seriously espouses the views it attacks - although the book does offer a few sensible correctives to the oversimplifications of early artificial intelligence theorists. Through chapter after chapter, it finds dozens of different ways to restate the obvious: that computers should help people, not hinder them; that if you want a computer system to aid a human project, work out exactly what the human project is; that when you use language, you are doing something.
These crashing platitudes are disguised for what they are by Heideggerian jargon; translate them back into English and they evaporate. Logonet's training seminars in ''communication for action'' are said to ''reveal for people how their language acts participate in a network of human commitments.'' The claim to reveal the ''fundamental ontology of linguistic acts'' turns out to be simply a matter of noticing that language contains questions, commands, promises and so forth. It is depressing to think that American managers need to be told any of this. But the man who has made the most out of the Heidegger business - and who originally lent Mr. Flores the money to start up on his own - is Werner Erhard, the man behind the now defunct est self-improvement cult. Mr. Erhard, a former car and encyclopedia salesman, changed his name from the more prosaic Jack Rosenberg and moved west to escape his first wife and children. In California he became a millionaire, selling people the idea that by freeing themselves from the constraints of conventional concepts they could embrace new possibilities and transform their lives. His own story is certainly one example of that.
Mr. Erhard's est encounter sessions - which, by some estimates, had as many as 500,000 takers between 1971 and 1984 - attracted plenty of criticism for their authoritarian form of indoctrination. But they also produced hundreds of obsessively eager acolytes: enough for him to set up a watered-down and more marketable organization, known as the Forum, which replaced est in 1984. The Forum offers a series of two ''transformational'' weekends for $625. The thinking behind them is often Heideggerian - or at least very similar to Heidegger's - with a few of its own twists and turns. Professor Dreyfus was hired to help give it a more Heideggerian slant (though he is certainly not responsible for its current form).
One main idea behind the Forum is a thesis that is often thought to be Heidegger's, though it in fact owes more to his pupil, Hans-Georg Gadamer. Mr. Gadamer's idea is that people derive their identities from stories they tell about themselves. The Forum's aim is to expose these stories by inducing existentialist anxiety, and then to enable people to construct more ''empowering'' stories, which ''transform'' them. Sounds easy. It certainly empowers Forum adepts to adopt a great deal of jargon and go off in search of more people to transform.
The jargon is a giveaway. Forumspeak does, in part, accurately reflect a Heideggerian metaphysic: for example, by replacing intentional verbs with the copulative verbs (''He is that the world is round,'' instead of ''He believes that the world is round'') it expresses the Heideggerian theory that what are normally regarded as beliefs are better seen as ways of being. Yet to go around parading slogans like this is to reveal that you have not really absorbed the metaphysics, but are merely wearing it as a talisman. This is philosophy by bumper sticker.
Those who take the Forum phenomenon seriously might see it as an attempt to overthrow the democracy of reason: you cannot debate the Forum, you just start talking its language or you don't. It is replete with the ironies of most minor cults: to open up the possibilities in your own life, you have to be intellectually bombarded by somebody else; to free yourself from the categories of everyday language, you have to be imprisoned in a new jargon that few other people speak.
Heidegger's critics will derive some satisfaction from the fact that he has ended up, half-understood, on the lips of followers many of whom are white-collar cranks. Theirs, certainly, are not the most interesting thoughts of the century.

GRAPHIC: Martin Heidegger as rector of the University of Freiburg in 1934, wearing a Nazi Party emblem. (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); LITERATURE (88%); HISTORY (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (69%); JURY TRIALS (66%); BOOKSTORES (54%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, ANTHONY; HEIDEGGER, MARTIN MARTIN HEIDEGGER (94%); HANNAH ARENDT (57%); 



155 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: OUTDOORS;
Hint of Summer at Boat Show

BYLINE: By Nelson Bryant

 BODY:
Although we'll gain less than 45 minutes of daylight between now and the end of the month, daydreams of long, soft summer days afloat on river, lake or ocean might be engendered by a visit to the 80th New York National Boat Show, which this year runs from Saturday through Jan. 21 at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan.
Billed as the oldest affair of its kind in the world, the show will, said its manager, Lori Vento, ''be offering the best product buys in years.'' This is a result, said Vento, of increased competition among manufacturers.
Sailboats, powerboats, fishing craft and speedboats will be on display, as will dinghies, inflatables, jet skis, jet propulsion mini-boats, sailboards and navigational, fish-finding and depth-finding electronic devices. 
Although there are some graybeards - this one among them - who regard high-speed powerboats with displeasure, getting from one place to another as rapidly as possible obviously delights many mariners. Such folk will be intrigued by the Hustler Fiore 40. With its standard engines, this sleek craft can exceed 80 miles an hour and it will do better than 100 miles an hour with an optional power package. It also has a full galley, a CD stereo player, a shower and color television. On a flat, calm day, the Hustler Fiore 40 could, for what it's worth, get you across Long Island Sound almost as quickly as a small single-engine aircraft.
The show will also have a computer-driven sailboard called Force 4 on which experts can test their skills and practice advanced manuevers. Tyros can use it to get a feel of the sport without getting wet. The Force 4 can be programmed for winds up to 30 knots and seas up to 2 feet high. It also figures in the weight of the sailor. The so-called ''water start'' is one of the more difficult challenges in sailboarding.
Peter Bakker, president of Force 4 Enterprises, said most people could learn the water start on the Force 4 in 15 minutes or less. Volvo Penta will also have a simulator at the show. At the helm of that company's device, you will be able to compare the performance of a 26-footer driven by Volvo Penta's Duoprop with one powered by a conventional stern drive.
If you are a bit uncertain about what is involved in owning a boat, there will be a free seminar on the subject starting at 9 A.M. Jan. 15. If you do make a decision to buy, there will be booths staffed by lending institutions. At last year's show, more than half the visitors were from out of state and the total audience purchased boats and marine supplies worth more than $11 million, said Frank Scalpone, an officer of the event's sponsor, the National Marine Manufacturers Association.
Scalpone said that a recent study revealed that the show injected at least $35 million a year into New York City's economy.
Among the big boats at the show will be Silverton Marine's 41-foot family cruiser, the 41 Aft Cabin, which includes a 133-square-foot main salon, a full galley and two double staterooms. Another large craft making its New York debut is Bristol Yacht's sloop-rigged 44-foot sailing cruiser, which has two staterooms, a full galley and two heads. New boats designed for anglers will include the 2600 Sportfish by Wahoo! Boats Unlimited. This 26-footer has an integrated swim ladder, head and shower, a live well, full galley, four fish boxes and two bait boxes.
Advanced navigational equipment will be on display, including Cetrek Navstar's ECPS Mapscan, which has a microprocessor linked with a pressure-sensitive pad that is positioned under a chart. Press a pencil point on any spot on the chart and you'll immediately be given that spot's exact latitude and longitude. Another new item is the DataScope, made by KVH Industries. Combining a compass, an electronic range finder, a digital chronometer and a 5 x 30 monocular, it is described as ''the most sophisticated navigational instrument ever to fit in a shirt pocket.''
Also unusual is a quartz watch -made by Kreiger Watch Corporation - that can provide you with the stage of the tide at any moment in any location.
The center's main floor, which covers an area larger than six football fields, and its Crystal Lobby will be filled, for the most part, with boats and motors. The newly completed Galleria level, which overlooks the main floor, will feature boating accessories, clothing and jewelry.
Admission will be $8 for adults and $3 for children. If you wish to avoid the crowds, you can attend the show on Jan. 12, Red Carpet Day, for $15. On Jan. 12, the hours are 10 A.M.-6 P.M.; Saturdays, 10 A.M.-10 P.M.; Sundays, 11 A.M.-7 P.M.; Monday, 11 A.M.-9 P.M.; Tuesday through Friday, the doors open at noon and close at 9 P.M.
The center is along the Hudson River on the West Side of Manhattan, between 34th and 39th Streets and 11th and 12th Avenues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3519 INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AB VOLVO PENTA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOATS AND BOATING; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) MARINE VESSELS (92%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); WATER SPORTS (77%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, NELSON ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 



156 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1785 words

HEADLINE: Baseball Notebook;
Yanks Champs! In 80's Payroll, That Is

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
If there ever was any doubt that George Steinbrenner is the biggest spender in baseball, doubt it no longer. The Yankees' owner spent so much more money on players in the 1980's than anyone else that the Players Association should erect a monument to him at Yankee Stadium in the form of a giant, 24-carat gold dollar sign.
The Yankees' player payroll in the 1980's totaled $137,883,665, nearly $21.5 million more than the next highest payroll, belonging to the California Angels, and three times the lowest payroll, possession of the Seattle Mariners.
The difference between the payrolls of the Yankees and the Angels is the largest, by more than $5 million, of any difference among the 26 clubs from one level to the next. Furthermore, the average salaries of 13 teams - half of the teams in the major leagues - fall within the same dropoff from the Angels' average salary as exists between the average salaries of the Yankees and the Angels - $78,492. 
For all of their heavy spending, the Yankees won only two division championships and one pennant in the 1980's, none since 1981, making them one of the least cost-efficient teams.
The most cost-efficient were the St. Louis Cardinals and the Los Angeles Dodgers. The Cardinals, with a payroll of $92,550,286, won three division titles, three pennants (most in the decade) and one World Series. The Dodgers had a payroll of $108,032,998 and won the most division titles, four, and the most World Series, two, in the 1980's. Oakland and Kansas City were not far behind those two teams in making their player expenditures worthwhile.
The compilation of the 1980's payrolls, however, also shows that it does pay to pay. The Cleveland Indians, the Texas Rangers and the Mariners were the last three teams in the payroll standing and they were three of the five teams that did not win division titles in the 10-year period. The Pittsburgh Pirates and the Cincinnati Reds were the other two failures and they joined the others in being five of the seven lowest-paying teams.
The moral of the economic story, then, would seem to be you have to pay to win, though you don't necessarily have to overpay like the Yankees.
The Yankees, whose payroll was 18.5 percent higher than the Angels' total, were one of eight teams with payrolls that exceeded the $100 million plateau. The other six were the Mets, the Dodgers, Boston, Houston, Philadelphia and Atlanta. At $46,189,730, the Mariners were the only team under $50 million. The average payroll was $90 million.
The average player salary for the period from 1980-89 was $332,090. Average salaries were also compiled because the teams, during the 10 years, had different total numbers of players, depending on how many players were on the disabled list Aug. 31 each season. That is the date used by the Players Association and the Player Relations Committee in determing average salaries each year.
The Yankees' average salary was $485,506, the Angels' $407,014. No one else reached $400,000.
Except for the first two years of the 1980's, the Yankees had payrolls of more than $12 million, reaching a high of $19.4 million in 1988. The Mets and the Dodgers each exceeded that total last year.
The Indians and the Mariners were the only teams whose payroll never reached $10 million in any of the seasons. Those teams also had the smallest increases from the first year of the period to the last, Seattle's payroll rising $5.6 million, Cleveland's $6 million.
The Mets had the largest increase, $17.7 million, followed by Oakland $15.9 million and Los Angeles $15.6 million.
 
Mattingly, the Booster
Whatever the Yankees think of Don Mattingly, it's not enough. Given the team's inability to win a division title in his first seven seasons and the seemingly bleak outlook for the immediate future, Mattingly could conceivably go through his career without playing on a division champion. Yet he maintains, at least publicly, a positive view of the team and speaks of the future optimistically.
Asked if he has been discouraged by developments, Mattingly said: ''No, not really. Basically our organization is trying to win. It gets out of whack a little or something happens, but in my heart I know we're trying. We'll do some things. I know they went after Langston heavy. You can't get everybody. At least I know George is making the effort to get somebody like that. To me, that's encouraging.''
Looking ahead to next season, he added: ''I think we can contend. There's no doubt about that. We have good defense up the middle with Espinoza, Sax and Kelly, and Geren came on and is a solid catcher defensively. I'm encouraged in a way. I like our young pitchers. Cadaret, Plunk, Cary and Parker show promise. I don't think we're a club that has to make wholesale changes. You talk about good teams with solid defense up the middle and we had that. I didn't see us as a horrible club. We never got together and we didn't have that much confidence in ourselves. We could do some things.''
Spoken like a veteran public relations man. The Yankees need all the good public relations they can get.
 
Trading Out of Necessity
Mark Langston, Bryn Smith and Pascual Perez for Dennis (Oil Can) Boyd, Joaquin Andujar and Dave Schmidt: would any general manager make that trade?
The Montreal Expos would not have, but in practice, they have, out of necessity. The Expos lost the first three pitchers as free agents, then signed the other three as free agents. They can't expect the same production from the new trio, but they had to start somewhere.
Boyd, an erratic personality, has been plagued the last three seasons by shoulder ailments and blood clots. He started only 10 games last season. Andujar, another hyper individual, hasn't pitched in the major leagues since 1988; the Expos signed him out of the Florida seniors' league.
Schmidt, normal, gave the Baltimore Orioles two solid seasons as a reliever and spot starter, pitching effectively when he moved into the rotation late in the season. But the Orioles made him a regular starter last season and discovered he was out of his element. If the Expos revert to his 1987-88 use, he could be the best of their three newcomers.
Dennis Martinez and Kevin Gross are the Expos' only remaining starting pitchers. If Boyd is healthy, he should be in the rotation, too. Mark Gardner and one of two right-handers who pitched in Class AA this year, Mel Rojas or Howard Farmer are also possibilities. Gardner was the American Association pitcher of the year and had an 0-3 record in four starts and three relief appearances near the end of the season for Montreal.
The Expos, however, will spend the first two months of the season focusing on fields far from Montreal. Because they lost the three pitchers, plus Hubie Brooks, as free agents, they have loads of compensation coming to them in the form of draft choices.
Counting their own choices, the Expos will get 10 of the first 52 picks in the June amateur draft: two in the first round, four in the special-compensation round, between rounds one and two, and four in the first half of the second round.
The Expos will receive California's first-round selection (for Langston); picks between the first and second rounds for Langston, Perez and Brooks, who were Type A free agents, plus one because they didn't sign their first-round choice last year, and the second-round choices of the Yankees (Perez), Los Angeles (Brooks) and St. Louis (Smith). The four lost free agents will thus bring the Expos seven extra draft choices.
''Gary Hughes and his scouting staff will have an interesting time,'' Dave Dombrowski, the Expos' general manager, said. ''Our guys have done a very good job of drafting in recent years so we're looking forward to it.''
 
Closing Information Bank
A few years ago, the Player Relations Committee established an information bank to gather and disseminate information on offers made to free agents. When the Players Association discovered the bank's existence, it asked the arbitrator to order the P.R.C. to terminate it. The arbitrator said the bank would be an issue to be decided with the rest of the collusion case, but told the P.R.C. to share the information with the union.
When the free-agent season approached last fall, the P.R.C. decided to abolish the bank. Barry Rona, then the P.R.C. executive director, always contended that the bank actually enhanced offers to free agents, but Donald Fehr, head of the union, now says the abolishment of the bank was greatly responsible for the lucrative developments in the free-agent market.
''I am satisfied that what we saw this year demonstrates that the information bank had an anticompetitive effect, like we said,'' Fehr remarked when asked about the bank's impact. ''What the information bank does is make it far less likely that pre-emptive bids will be made, and if there is going to be any competition, it will be done at the lowest possible level, which is a mutual goal of the clubs.
''Having 26 teams all interested in the same player but having it be at 10 percent of what he's worth is not something we care for. It has not escaped our notice that the differences in the market this year occurred as soon as the information bank was pulled down.''
 

 
A DECADE OF SPENDING
 
These are the team payrolls and average salaries for the 1980's, compiled by The New York Times from average-salary reports released annually by the Major League Baseball Players Association (the championships column is the total of division titles, league pennants and World Series won in the 1980's): 

$	 	 	 	 	Team	Payroll	Players	Avg. Salary	Championships	Yankees	$137,883,665	284	$485,506	3	Angels	116,406,118	286	407,014	2	Mets	108,055,124	273	395,806	4	Dodgers	108,032,998	283	381,742	8	Red Sox	106,778,426	268	398,427	3	Astros	102,805,621	268	383,603	2	Phillies	102,121,781	271	376,833	5	Braves	100,775,697	271	371,866	1	Royals	97,978,808	272	360,216	6	Cubs	96,566,766	268	360,324	2	Tigers	93,822,825	264	355,389	4	Brewers	92,770,658	278	333,707	2	Cardinals	92,550,286	271	341,514	7	Athletics	91,994,714	275	334,526	6	Expos	88,141,810	274	321,685	1	Orioles	87,049,460	261	333,523	3	Giants	83,460,990	273	305,718	3	Blue Jays	82,613,376	260	317,744	2	Padres	79,907,466	259	308,523	2	Pirates	78,060,459	272	286,987	0	Reds	77,831,923	270	288,266	0	White Sox	74,401,022	266	279,703	1	Twins	68,922,655	266	259,108	3	Indians	64,296,589	273	235,519	0	Rangers	62,481,890	266	229,713	0	Mariners	46,189,730	274	168,576	0	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); TEXAS, USA (53%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); GEORGIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (53%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (52%); BOSTON, MA, USA (51%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CINCINNATI REDS (52%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (94%); SEATTLE MARINERS (83%); SEATTLE MARINERS (83%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; CALIFORNIA ANGELS; SEATTLE MARINERS

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES; MAJOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (92%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY GEORGE STEINBRENNER (74%); 



157 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: 14th for Newark;
New Airport Hotel

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. LYONS

 BODY:
Hampton Inns of Memphis is building a 154-room hotel near Newark International Airport, the 14th to serve the terminal's immediate area. The $5 million facility on Route 1-9 in Elizabeth, N.J., facing an entrance to the airport, is expected to be finished in about a year. Airport officials attributed part of a major increase in hotel business around the terminal to the growing practice among business executives of flying in, attending meetings overnight in conference rooms and returning home the next day.
The architect of the five-story structure is John Granville Taylor of Memphis and the builder is Controlled Construction of Wayne, N.J. The 80,000-square-foot building is being constructed of concrete plank on block bearing walls.
Hampton Inn is a rapidly expanding subsidiary of Holiday Corporation, which is also based in Memphis. The subsidiary expects to have 250 hotels and motels in operation by the end of this year. The chain seeks to attract an economy-minded clientele by offering prices 20 to 40 percent below those of its sister company, Holiday Inns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HOLIDAY CORP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMPTON INNS OF MEMPHIS

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AIRPORTS (94%); HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (70%); 



158 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2354 words

HEADLINE: Whose Broker Is It, Anyway? Albany Offers An Answer

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
SUPPOSE a house-hunting couple wants to make a bid on a house. They aren't sure how much under the asking price to offer, so they ask the broker. The broker says, ''Well, the house has been on the market for six months, you saw how old the furnace is, so why don't you try this number?''
The scenario is a familiar one to many home buyers who have come to regard ''their'' real estate salesman as an adviser on the final deal.
But it is also unethical under the rules of of the National Association of Realtors, and it would become illegal, along with a host of other daily customs and practices in the real estate business, under new rules being proposed by New York's Secretary of State, Gail Shaffer, whose office regulates the real estate industry in the state. 
What Ms. Shaffer is proposing, in a 40-page draft now circulating in Albany and among the state's real estate brokerages, is to codify the distinction between a broker's client and his customers and, some industry leaders complain, undo some basic elements of today's housing market.
In the case of a broker advising a buyer, the new law would underscore the long-standing rule that if a broker accepts a listing to sell a house, the seller is the broker's client and is thus owed full loyalty. That includes the obligation to obtain the highest possible price for the property and precludes advising a buyer how to save some money at the seller's expense, a practice known as representing adverse interests.
Among some of the more far-reaching proposals in the draft laws are these:
* To make it illegal for a broker to let agents and brokers not licensed directly to him to market one of his listings, a measure that could, Ms. Shaffer concedes, doom the use of multiple listing services.
* To make brokers get house-buyers to sign a document acknowledging that the broker represents the seller, not the buyers.
* To forbid the common practice of brokers buying properties listed with them.
* To require that all advertisements for a residential property include an accurate description of the property's geographical location.
THESE rules, some of them new, others restatements of scattered agency regulations, legal precedents and state laws, are needed, Ms. Shaffer said in an interview, because the modern real estate market has tended to blur the opposing interests of buyer and seller in favor of the middleman, the broker.
''I regard this as a consumer protection issue of the largest proportions because real estate is probably the biggest transaction the consumer is going to make in his lifetime,'' she said. ''Yet many people probably do more research about buying a toaster than about a transaction costing tens of thousands, or hundreds of thousands of dollars.''
The problem is compounded, Ms. Shaffer went on, when buyers forget who the broker is working for.
''Many people think the friendly guy in the mustard-colored jacket is going to represent them and stick up for their best interests,'' she said. ''They may not realize that, by law, he has to do everything he can to get the highest price and the best terms for the seller.''
A 1983 Federal Trade Commission survey, she noted, found that 71 percent of buyers believed the broker represented them. Two examples of this that Ms. Shaffer provided illustrate the point. In one instance, the Harvey Heino Realty Corporation of Brooklyn was fined $1,000 last February - the maximum penalty allowed short of revocation of a broker's license - for forging a buyer's name to an offer on a home. Despite the fact that the buyer had agreed to the offer, Roger Schneier, the administrative law judge, ruled that the false signature amounted to fraudulent behavior.
The case of Ferris Real Estate of Cortland, N.Y., last March demonstrates what can happen to a broker who does not warn buyers of the broker's first duty to the seller. The firm was brought before Judge Schneier on charges by a seller that the firm had understated the amount of an offer, a charge the judge dismissed as illogical - a lower offer would reduce the broker's commission - and unfounded.
But in the course of the proceeding it became clear that the buyer had not been given sufficient notice that Ferris Real Estate worked for the seller, and the firm was fined $1,000.
The Department of State's two law judges hear about 100 license violation complaints a year, and have handed down 35 revocations and 37 suspensions in the past three years, officials said.
Some brokers have anticipated a greater awareness of buyers' rights in the real estate business by creating buyers-only brokerages, in which brokers and agents represent only buyers. The practice has been a long-standing one in the commercial real estate field, and Susan Bird of S. W. Bird & Company pioneered the approach in Manhattan, with her agents splitting the sales commissions with the seller's broker, just as a co-broker would do in a conventional real estate deal.
The distinction can be hard to make, however, since brokers for buyers get their fees from the seller just as the sales brokers do, and common law ordinarily assumes that an agent is working for the one who pays him. Nor do the financial interests of buyer-brokers and their buying clients always mesh, since the brokers profit from higher sales prices and the buyers, which are against the interests of the buyer.
The Bird Company has to some extent blurred the distinction between brokering purchases and sales by creating a sales brokerage division in the same office. Dale Emily LaPointe, the general manager for sales, said that the two divisions operate independent of each other, however.
Codifying the rules under the regulations of the Department of State's Division of Licensing Services, which administers and enforces the state real estate law, will require approval by the Legislature, Ms. Shaffer said. Public hearings on the proposed rules will probably be scheduled in the spring.
Considering the sweeping nature of some of the rules, the response among real estate professionals so far has been surprisingly mild. Charles M. Staro, executive director of the New York State Association of Realtors, said that his members were studying the proposals and would not comment in detail until the deadline Ms. Shaffer set for their response, on Jan. 26.
''A cursory review says we can live with some of the regulations,'' said Mr. Staro, ''but we also anticipate that we will have some concern about other ones.''
Jack Hill, a staff member of the Real Estate Board of New York, a city trade organization, said the board has been meeting with Ms. Shaffer to discuss her draft for the past several months.
''I would think that Gail Shaffer might be the first to admit that we work in a very sophisticated environment in New York City,'' he said. ''The buyer and the seller or lessee are all very knowledgeable, so things are done in a way that are for the most part honorable.''
But William D. North, executive vice president of the National Association of Realtors and the trade group's spokesman on legal and regulatory matters, was more direct, particularly about proposed rules on ''subagency,'' the assignment of brokerage rights on a property to other brokerages, as is done through a multiple listing service.
''On the face of it, several things strike me as enormously destructive of the consumer interest here,'' he said. ''Historically, we have been through the marketplace that she would create, where each listing is tightly held, where a buyer goes from broker to broker to broker to see what is available, where when you buy a house, you don't really know what the alternatives are, you don't know what the comparable prices are and it is an absolute horror. All you have to do is go to France or Germany, where these subagency rules are in place, and you can see what the implications of these proposals are.''
But subagency agreements violate the fiduciary responsibility of a broker to his client, the seller, Ms. Shaffer said. Hence the key language of the proposed rule, which says that a broker may offer subagency only to licensed associate brokers or sales people who are employed by the real estate broker himself.
Not, in other words, to the dozens of other brokerages who use the blanket offer of subagency implied in a listing in a multiple listing service, or M.L.S.
''A fiduciary responsibility means that you are undertaking to maximize the profitability of that property, and you are also acting to minimize the risks inherent in marketing it,'' Ms. Shaffer said. ''When an agent contracts with a subagent or the M.L.S., the seller has no agreement with that universe of people who are now suddenly authorized by the broker to market his property. The subagents could be incompetent, they could engage in unethical or illegal practices, and the seller could suddenly find himself liable for them.''
EXAMPLES of illegal dealings by subagents that could implicate a seller include acts of racial discrimination, where the subagents deceive a minority home-seeker, or, the failure of a subagent to promptly deliver an offer on a property, hoping for a higher one, or a subagent's failure to disclose a material defect in the property.
''My feeling is that the seller could have recourse through the Department of State against the subagent and the agent if there is wrongdoing,'' said Mr. Staro of the state association.
Mr. North, of the National Association of Realtors, said the state's proposed solution outmatched the problem.
''From a national perspective, we have just not seen that liability,'' he went on. ''Sure, there is a theoretical liability, and you can protect against it with insurance, or arbitration. But as a practical matter we just have not seen it.''
In the section on self-dealing, the new rules' proposed ban on brokers buying their own listings will fly in the face of a common practice, brokers said. But Ms. Shaffer insisted that a broker buying from a client is a bare-faced violation of his responsibility to obtain the highest possible price for the property, and the proposed law would require a broker to resign a listing before making an offer on a property he represents.
''The fiduciary responsibility requires that the agent put the client first, and if the agent's self-interest comes into play, you can no longer do that,'' the Secretary of State declared.
''If you are a potential buyer, you can no longer be in that relationship, so you will have to say, 'Look, I can't represent you any longer because I have an interest in this property, and you can be better served by another broker.' ''
As it is, Ms. Shaffer said, brokers are routinely buying their own listings, often after having set the price in an appraisal as well.
''And they are actually collecting the commission, on top of getting the property,'' she added. ''That is unconscionable and untenable.''
Mr. North made two points in response - that sellers are fully aware of how markets work, and are able to protect themselves from charlatans and that there is ample legal recourse for sellers who believe they had been cheated.
''If that happens, I can only tell you that the remedies that are available, and the damages and other consequences are so horrendous that a real estate broker who engages in that type of practice will get everything he deserves.''
The rules would outlaw another common sales technique, Mr. North added, the guaranteed sale, in which a broker promises to buy a property that does not sell as an agreed-upon price in a certain period of time. The offer is usually contingent on the seller's having made a commitment to buy another home.
A New Jersey broker, who wished not to be quoted, made an additional point:
''If I buy any house in the whole multiple listing service I would be self-dealing under that rule, because I'm a subagent for every listing in the M.L.S.,'' he said.
The proposed new rules also contain strict enforcement powers against blockbusting, the illegal practice of inducing homeowners to sell by spreading fear that a neighborhood is changing, racially or economically. Ms. Shaffer has already scheduled 11 hearings between next Thursday and March 22 in Queens, Brooklyn, the Bronx and Nassau County on her plans to issue nonsolicitation orders in areas where blockbusting is suspected. The orders forbid real estate brokers or their agents to solicit listings in the areas where blockbusting is suspected.
THE state had been issuing such orders for 18 years until they were struck down last February by the Court of Appeals on the ground that the Department of State lacked statutory authority to issue them. The Legislature then passed enabling legislation for that authority, and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo signed it into law, during the last session. The hearings thus mark a return to the practice despite the stiff objections of the real estate industry.
For all the disagreements that are likely to arise when the full public discussion of the proposed new rules gets under way, some measures appeared unobjectionable to real estate industry leaders. One would require the chief broker of each real estate agency to list his or her full name, plus the legend ''Licensed Real Estate Broker'' on each ''For Sale'' sign, calling card and advertisement. Another would require that listing contracts contain language defining the different kinds of listings available to a seller, including the seller's right to reserve the right to sell the house alone without paying a commission.
The real estate officials also agreed with the Secretary of State's proposed ban on ''net listings,'' in which the broker gets to keep any sales money over an agreed-upon figure.
While reserving formal comment until later, several brokers who were interviewed said they did not particularly mind having buyers sign a document spelling out that the broker's first duty is to the seller, or a rule that would require the name of the broker-of-record - every brokerage must have one - on each ''for sale'' sign the firm plants on front lawns.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); ETHICS (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; SHAFFER, GAIL S (SEC) GAIL SHAFFER (90%); 



159 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 3, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES: The 10-Year Housing Plan;
Issues for the 90's: Management and Costs

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
IN housing, New York City has changed horses in midstream. Mayor David N. Dinkins has come into office at about the halfway mark of the expensive, long-term municipal housing program begun by former Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1985.
The new administration faces two key challenges. One is to sustain the production effort at reasonable cost, which is becoming all the more difficult as the buildings still to be planned become more scattered and smaller than those already in the development pipeline.
The second issue is how to effectively sustain the buildings for 20 to 30 years once they are occupied. 
Will tenants' incomes and the rents they pay rise sufficiently to cover rising operating costs? Will reserve funds be sufficient to meet unexpected contingencies and unwanted inflation in costs? Will nonprofit management corporations that own debt-free housing make periodic demands on city government for more operating money? Will neighborhood problems overwhelm housing managers?
The production volume itself has built up impressively. In the last two fiscal years, which ended last June 30, starts were achieved on 13,260 apartments in gut-rehabilitated buildings. These are mainly in vacant, tax-foreclosed, city-owned properties. Recycling is the central element in the production program. In the current fiscal year, the plan is to start construction on 7,300 more.
Moreover, construction of new city-assisted houses, for one or two families, is also moving apace. There were 4,290 starts in the last two fiscal years, and prospectively 4,100 more this year.
City dollars are flowing. The pace reached $1.3 billion in new capital-budget commitments for the three fiscal years that ended last June. In the 10-year plan, former Mayor Koch undertook to spend $5.1 billion for housing. Moderate amounts of Federal and, particularly, state assistance also are provided.
The city's housing officials express confidence that once rehabilitated and occupied, the buildings will sustain themelves. ''We believe the budgets are hefty enough to secure the buildings,'' said Felice Michetti, deputy commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
Yet many new buildings have a preponderance of extremely low-income tenants. In some cases all of them get their rent money from the welfare system - $312 a month for a family of four, unindexed for inflation. To the extent that welfare rents pay substantial portions of buildings' incomes, many buildings will long be at risk unless they have substantial reserves.
In most buildings, care has been taken to provide for reserves.
''YOU go into a project knowing you will need a big reserve fund,'' said Catherine Herman, associate director of the housing office of the Brooklyn Catholic Charities, an experienced nonprofit housing manager. ''In the early years the rents will pay the freight. But if rents are rising only 1 or 2 percent a year, you've got to provide the building almost with an endowment to pay for future repairs if the property is going to be maintained for 20 years or more.''
Brooklyn Catholic Charities is managing three buildings with 55 apartments in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn that have been rehabilitated under the auspices of the Enterprise Foundation, whose investors use the Federal low-income tax-credit program. The requirements of this program, when mortgages are insured by the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, cause almost half the private investors' equity contribution to be used for the reserve fund. This came to $300,000 in a 30-unit Brooklyn Catholic Charities building in Williamsburg.
But in buildings that are entirely city-financed, some managers say there may be a need for further subsidies eventually, even though low-income tenants have gotten apartments without mortgages, so that rents cover only operating expenses.
Carol Lamberg, executive director of the Settlement Housing Fund, a major nonprofit housing manager and developer, said she believed that certain buildings would need the security of assured Federal housing vouchers to supplement tenants' rents over time.
''The shelter allowance is too low,'' she said. ''If a big crisis like the one in 1974 comes, anything can happen.''
''Debt-free low-income buildings will be O.K. for a short time,'' said the Rev. Louis Gigante, president of the nonprofit Sebco Development Company in the South Bronx. ''But after that they are finished unless housing vouchers go to the welfare people.''
VOUCHERS are used to inject Federal funds into existing low-income housing. But critics question whether tenants who are in effect getting free apartments should also benefit from vouchers to offset future repair costs. If incomes are too low, it is necessary, the managers say.
In 1974, the price of oil surged and thousands of privately owned, rent-controlled apartments were dropped to mortgagees, and ultimately to the city. That housing disaster remains the principal cause of the current low-income housing shortage.
The immediate cost issue involves the prices paid for city-financed gut rehabilitations. Those that have been contracted out in large clusters to major construction-management companies are costing far more than anticipated in Harlem and the Bronx.
In Harlem alone it is costing at least $72.7 million to rehabilitate 720 apartments to Public Housing Authority standards. That is at least $30 million more than the Koch administration predicted. And the costs keep rising. Two months ago, bids came in so high in the third round of bidding for gut rehabilitations under this phase of the city's program that all were rejected. The lowest came to $115,000 a unit.
Now the city is seeking out smaller builders for the same work, divided into smaller building clusters. Working with badly rundown walk-ups being redone as elevator buildings, officials are seeking to pay under $70,000 a unit for gut rehabilitations.
The bigger long-term problem is the scattered small buildings. How will those 15,000 units get rehabilitated, and at what cost and for whom?
There are believed to be about 1,700 such buildings, with 5 to 20 apartments each. In the past, the city has attempted to sell them to small private developers for rehabilitation and resale as condominiums. There has not been much success. The Citizens Housing and Planning Council, in a 41-page report last month on the city's housing programs and how to improve them, singled out the small-building rehabilitation and sales program as the one most in need of overhaul.
''MANY of the buildings slated for this program do not make sense as sales housing,'' said the council. It urged the city to turn to very small builders and contractors, simplified paperwork procedure and either looser income-eligibility requirements for occupancy or ''turnkey'' back to public ownership for low-income occupancy.
Of the 253,000 housing units specified in the 10-year program, 169,000 had tenants when the program began, housing officials say. The assistance the buildings get comes mainly as low-interest moderate-rehabilitation loans to private owners.
The heavy costs and risks come in new construction and gut rehabilitations, which can be considered additions to the housing supply. New construction includes private homes on city-owned land, mainly for moderate- to middle-income people. The subsidy per unit is relatively modest - up to $25,000. Prospectively, there may be more multifamily city-assisted new construction. The overall goal is about 37,000 new homes or apartments over 10 years.
In gut rehabilitations, the Koch administration's goal was about 47,000 of the 53,000 vacant apartments in the tax-foreclosed stock, Abraham Biderman, the housing commissioner in the final years of the Koch administration, said in an interview.
The largest vacant-building recycling program has also been done at least cost. A total of 18,000 housing units are to be put into development by small builders, using private construction financing and permanent private mortgages with a city subsidy in the form of a nominal-interest second mortgage of $12,000 to $15,000 an apartment.
The costs are higher whenever the city itself has managed the construction, intending to turn over buildings with very low incomes - between 30 percent and 60 percent of areawide median - to nonprofit managers. To house that population in fully rehabilitated buildings that are successfully maintained as decent housingover time may be the biggest challenge on the low-income housing front in the 90's.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeanne Bonney, left, Catherine Herman of Catholic Charities, outside a building the group manages in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. (The New York Times/John Sotomayor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN CATHOLIC CHARITIES (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); CHARITIES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)



160 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 3, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: TALKING: Mortgages;
V.A. Loans Regaining Acceptance

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
AN unexpected byproduct of the weaker real estate market has been the return of the Veterans Administration mortgage as a popular financing tool, one that developers and sellers appear keener to honor than in the mid-80's, when sales were booming and any loan subject to possible bureaucratic delay was scorned.
Gone are the days, for example, when couples like John and Ikuko Doyle of Weehawken, N.J., would go shopping for a home and, Mr. Doyle says, ''nobody would accept V.A. loans.''
''So we couldn't buy because we weren't in a position to use anything else,'' Mr. Doyle said, referring to the V.A. loan feature that requires no down payment.
Today, any option that will broaden the marketplace and produce a willing and able buyer is being welcomed. ''You don't mind waiting a few more weeks for the approval if you know you have finally found a buyer,'' said Nancy Gordon, assistant vice president at the Hackensack, N.J., headquarters of Globe Mortgage, where V.A. applications are on the rise. 
Lumberman's Mortgage Corporation of N.J., for example, wrote 138 V.A. mortgages in the first 11 months of 1989 compared to 92 in 1988, a 50 percent increase, even though loan originations at Lumberman's rose by only 10 percent.
The Veterans Administration home mortgage program dates to 1944, when it was used to help returning World War II veterans buy a home. It is actually a loan guarantee program. The loan itself is made through a local lender, although the terms are set by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Today it is available to anyone who has served at least 90 days in the military (reserve duty normally does not count). The individual needs only a certificate of eligibility from the local Office of Veterans Affairs.
In Connecticut that office is in Hartford at 450 Main Street, in New Jersey it is in Newark at 20 West Place, and in downstate New York it is in Manhattan at 252 Seventh Avenue.
From time to time, terms and conditions change. Thus another reason V.A. mortgages are enjoying new popularity is that they offer an unusually good interest rate - a fixed rate of 9.5 percent. This is about one-fourth to one-half point lower than most fixed-rate mortgages available through the conventional market, according to the most recent surveys by HSH Associates of Butler, N.J., a mortgage monitoring service.
It is also possible to use a V.A. mortgage again and again. This feature was introduced in 1970 and has been encouraging veterans to use the mortgage on an ongoing basis rather than just for a first home - especially useful if the borrower has been divorced and there is no equity to pass along to a new home.
In addition, V.A. loans tend to be more flexible on how much debt a borrower can carry in relation to income. Total debt, including all consumer borrowing, can reach 41 percent of income, compared with 36 percent for most conventional mortgages.
And - and perhaps most important - a V.A. loan is one of the few remaining ways to borrow 100 percent of the cost of a home. The only restriction, a $144,000 ceiling, is about to be raised, according to officials at the Department of Veterans Affairs in Washington, although the amount is not yet available.
So why does the V.A. loan have a reputation of being difficult to use? One is the amount of paperwork and delay involved in getting an approval. But experts who have worked with V.A. loans for many years say that the reputation is no longer valid, and that there are ways to avoid even a minor delay.
MS. GORDON, for example, has found that V.A. loan approval takes four to five weeks, compared to two to three for conventional loan clearance. Most of this added delay, said Louis R. Ciullo, regional vice president at Lumberman's and branch manager of its Toms River, N.J., office, comes from prudent lending practices - the more stringent verifications needed to provide someone with a loan that carries no down payment.
If those verifications can be obtained easily, approval can come quickly. For instance, Elaine and William Rutledge - she is a financial adviser and he is an electrical contractor - closed this month on a two-bedroom town house condominium in Lakewood, N.J., for $117,900 for which they were able to get V.A. loan approval in 30 days, Mrs. Rutledge said.
But to get it that fast two factors must be in place. The lender should have a V.A.-approved staff underwriter. This eliminates the need for the paperwork to be sent to a V.A. office for clearance - a cause of many of the legendary delays. Second, if the purchase is a new home, or a substantially rehabiliated home like a condominium conversion project, the project itself needs prior V.A. approval, which can take two months or more. So it is usually easier to buy a new home that already has such clearance. This should not be a problem as more and more developers are getting those approvals early, aware that it can stimulate sales.
Such approval also can be requested by the borrower. The Doyles did that, ending up with the $98,000, two-bedroom condominium in Weehawken they had decided was exactly for them, even though they knew they might face several months of delay waiting for the approval.
The second myth is that the appraisal and inspection of the property by a V.A. representative is so stringent that there is a great risk of rejection. Not so, says Nicholas De Serio of Bricktown, N.J., a former V.A. appraisal supervisor who now handles V.A. appraisals for his own account. Three years ago, he said, a new appraisal form was introduced that requires simply a market-value analysis. It is no more onerous, he insisted, than those used by conventional lenders.
The final strike against the V.A. loan was always the requirement that the seller pay most of the points. But brokers have found that this can usually be traded for a lesser reduction in the asking price. Tom Meyer of Seapoint Realty in Point Pleasant, N.J., who has handled such negotiations for 20 years, said that both buyer and seller must be willing to compromise.
He gave as an example a home with an asking price of $100,000. Instead of a reduction to $98,000, the buyer agrees to accept the $100,000 price in exchange for the seller's paying two points, or $2,000, of the three-point loan inititation charge. The buyer is required to pay one point. Thus, requirements are met, and though the buyer pays a bit more, that is offset by the better terms of the V.A. loan.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (51%); VETERANS ADMINISTRATION (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: VETERANS ADMINISTRATION

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES VETERANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); VETERANS LOANS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE IKUKO DOYLE (59%); 



161 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: NORTHEAST NOTEBOOK: Orleans, Mass.;
Cape's Sales Continue Slide

BYLINE: By SETH KING

 BODY:
LAST January, Donald Fulcher and his wife, Susan, year-round residents on Cape Cod, put their modest two-bedroom, one-bath house in South Yarmouth on the market for $119,000. Nothing happened.
Three months later they lowered the price to $115,000 and, after another three months, lowered it to $112,000. 
Finally, late in October, they found a buyer who could qualify for a mortgage and they accepted his offer of $108,000.
Last month, the Fulchers paid $180,000 for a four-bedroom, two-bath house near Barnstable Village, five minutes from Barnstable Harbor's beaches and docks. Although it had been on the market only a month, the Fulchers paid $15,000 less than the asking price of $195,000.
Their experience is typical of Cape Cod's current real estate market. Despite another painfully slow year, a modest number of houses and condominiums are selling.
But most have been on the market unusually long and virtually all sell well below the original asking price.
''There's no question that the big adjustment that started more than a year ago is continuing,'' said Walter F. Brown, an Orleans real estate appraiser who was involved in the Fulcher transactions.
Sellers, Mr. Brown said, are having to lower their acceptance prices periodically to compete in a market that now has a record number of houses and condominiums listed.
They also have to adjust to mortgage interest rates that still hover around 10 percent and to the fact that there are now far fewer prospects who can qualify for home loans, he added.
Mr. Brown is supported by the latest count of residential sales made through the multiple listing service of the Cape Cod and Islands Board of Realtors, which also handles Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard.
During October, there was a 5 percent drop both in the number of residential properties sold through multiple listing - to 180 - and in their total value, which came to $29.9 million.
In the first 10 months of 1989, a total of 1,693 properties, virtually all of them houses and condominiums, were sold through multiple listing, a drop of 8.9 percent. And at the end of November, the Board of Realtors was listing 6,083 properties for sale, 700 more than a year ago.
This trend, according to other Cape real estate brokers and bankers, has reshaped the profile of this year's buyers. Many more now intend to live in the houses they buy, and fewer are buying homes and condominiums as investments.
And those who intend to buy, the brokers say, are doing so very slowly, apparently waiting for prices to drop more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAPE COD (MASS)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS; SALES REAL ESTATE (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (71%); BEACHES (70%); TRENDS (70%); 

PERSON: KING, SETH WALTER F BROWN (82%); DONALD FULCHER (70%); 



162 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 14, Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Defense Cuts Top Delegation's Agenda

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
WEATHERING cuts in defense spending, reducing pollution in Long Island Sound and passing child care legislation for working families top the state's Congressional agenda for 1990.
Some Connecticut lawmakers, including two who are running for governor, will have to find time between campaign stops to conduct their legislative business. The rest will be in the same boat as most members of Congress: trying to pass legislation at a time when the Government has no money.
The 1990 gubernatorial election is expected to dominate the state's political news in the next 10 months and much of the attention will focus on Washington as United States Representatives John G. Rowland, Republican of Waterbury, and Bruce A. Morrison, Democrat of New Haven, begin campaigns for the state's top office. The delegation could get even busier if Representative Barbara B. Kennelly, Democrat of Hartford, contest. 
How will they find time to legislate in Washington and run for governor?
 
'Working Twice as Hard'
''By working twice as hard,'' Mr. Morrison said. ''I will continue to do my job. It will aid me in my race for governor that I will continue to be effective in my specific responsibilities in Washington.''
Mr. Rowland says he faces less of a problem because in his view ''we have a unique advantage of having the nomination pretty much sewed up.''
While Mr. Morrison is hustling to muster convention support and votes for the primary, Mr. Rowland said, he will be concentrating on his job in Washington and preparing for the final election.
Mr. Rowland and Mr. Morrison, along with virtually the entire eight-member Connecticut delegation in Washington, mentioned the impending cuts in the defense budget as a major local priority for Connecticut.
''Connecticut very definitely needs both the Federal and state government to get heavily involved in planning for reduced military expenditures,'' Mr. Morrison said. ''We've got to make sure that Connecticut's peace dividend is not unemployed workers.''
 
Two Strategies
Mr. Rowland, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, said he has two strategies: to make sure Connecticut does not take an unfair share of the cuts and to create policies that will encourage businesses to convert to nonmilitary production and to hire unemployed defense workers.
Representative Sam Gejdenson, Democrat of Bozrah, whose district includes the Electric Boat Division of General Dynamics, where nuclear submarines are built, has been a leader in the push to diversify the state economy and plans to continue working toward that goal.
The state's two Senators, Christopher J. Dodd and Joseph I. Lieberman, both Democrats, will be the only members of the delegation not facing some kind of election in 1990. But their agendas appear full for the coming year.
Senator Dodd has been running up a hefty long-distance telephone bill maintaining contacts in Central America amid the tumultuous developments there. A top priority for Mr. Dodd will be monitoring the Nicaraguan elections next month.
 
Child Care Legislation
Domestically, the top item on Senator Dodd's list - and also a key issue for Representative Kennelly - is child care legislation, which has come close to passing two years in a row. ''I'm hopeful, based on the statements made by the majority leader and others that they consider it a top priority,'' Mr. Dodd said.
Mr. Lieberman, who ends his freshman year in the Senate, said that he would continue to push his environmental agenda. Among the first bills to be taken up this year by the Senate is the Clean Air Act, a revision that includes acid rain legislation important to Connecticut.
Senator Lieberman said he would also focus on the continuing study of pollution in Long Island Sound. And he is seeking to establish Connecticut's first national park, at the Weir farm in Ridgefield. He said he does not plan to back down from his support of a capital gains tax cut, a position that drew some criticism last year in Democratic circles.
Representative Christopher J. Shays, Republican of Stamford, counts himself among those who follow former House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill's slogan that ''all politics are local.'' He listed the Federal budget deficit as his ''first, second and third'' local priorities.
''Nothing is more important than that,'' Mr. Shays said. He also lists commuter rail service to New York and the cleanup of Long Island Sound as two other important measures.
Representative Nancy L. Johnson, Republican of New Britain, sounds somewhat un-Republican when she lists child care, affordable housing, the Clean Air Act and a solution to the problem of trying to provide health care for the uninsured as her priorities for 1990. She heads a Republican panel looking into ways the Federal Government can help the uninsured without breaking the bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; LONG ISLAND SOUND

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; CHILD CARE; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FAMILY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHILD CARE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (63%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: ROWLAND, JOHN G (REPR); MORRISON, BRUCE A (REP) CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); 



163 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 24, Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT OPINION;
Our Suburban Children Could Learn Much From the Immigrants Among Us

BYLINE: By Robert Liftig; Robert Liftig lives in Westport.

 BODY:
THIS new year is the 100th since the last of my ancestors left Eastern Europe to settle in Connecticut. 1990 is therefore a coming of age for my family, and I've been thinking how fitting it is that our anniversary falls during one the largest periods of immigration in recent American history. These days, however, the immigrants often come from other directions: South America, the Caribbean and Asia. And it's anybody's guess whether these contemporary immigrants are more unwelcomed than my Eastern European ancestors were a century ago.
Lately, radio talk show hosts have taken to spouting off about the Third Worldism they claim is ruining the United States. And they don't mean to be taken figuratively. They object to the immigration of these peoples, claiming that the United States has lost its place as No. 1 in everything except the number of immigrants - legal and otherwise. 
The images these critics stir up are designed to be disturbing: from thousands of shiftless illegals selling drugs to formerly wholesome American children, to unscrupulous sweat shop and agricultural laborers working on the cheap, intent on stealing jobs from all the law-abiding real Americans. No wonder our country is going downhill, they try to convince us; look what we're dealing with.
There is a dramatic shift in American demographics under way, and it does speak volumes about what is happening to our native population. But I believe our country will be only the better for this. Pulling into a gas station anywhere on the Post Road, for example, can be inspiring: they all seem to be operated by Arabs, Caribbean Islanders and Indians. And it's much the same on Interstate 95, and on the Merritt Parkway, where almost every pump is manned by South Americans. And so it goes in fast food shops, in emergency rooms and behind the counters of shopping malls throughout the nation.
''At least there's some people left who work for a living,'' a friend of mine said when we discussed the issue. ''You wouldn't find my neighbor's kid being bothered. He's always stoned or drunk. Or even my neighbor, for that matter. He had a big lawsuit against his company and retired on disability when he was 40, and that must have been 20 years ago.''
It's odd that the same observations that depress our immigration worriers so much, make me so optimistic. They may choose to misinterpret sluggish or surly service as further evidence of imminent national catastrophe, but I try to look at the larger picture. For in these days of lifelong unemployment, golden parachutes and six-month rehabilitation programs, I thank our 50 stars that at least the newcomers to our country are out there working.
Our immigration naysayers might reconsider their opinions if they postponed their Winnebago wanderings long enough to see what happens in America's parking lots when the work shift changes. Then they'd see how often employer vans gather up our new arrivals and truck them 50 miles or more to their homes in our urban ghettos, and the next morning bring them back to their jobs to serve natives who are evidently free to travel, eat and spend as much time over coffee as they want while others work - for $4 or so an hour and for the privilege of being accused of stealing great jobs from the suburban children of real Americans.
Yes, the average American citizen is not what he used to be just a few years ago, but it's us who have changed for the worse, not the immigrants who still come here, as my great-grandparents did, for a shot at the top. Today, our drugged-out, sotted-down, welfare-sated, pensioned and disabled native populations seems most definitely down for the count - a secret that is no secret at all to our competition. (Asked their impression of Americans in a recent survey, 67 percent of Japanese respondents who have worked in the United States said we were lazy, a diagnosis that comes as a surprise only to those most seriously afflicted.) The immigration worriers would take us back to what they imagine was a happier, more homogeneous generation, one that in fact was neither if they would read American history. The United States has always been an ethnically diverse experiment; consider the Walloons who settled New Amsterdam or the Huguenots who settled near them or the Africans or the native Americans. American homogeneity, in other words, is a myth. This great country, as my friend likes to say, has always been a ''land of broken toys,'' and it is high time we were getting used to it. We're still the country that has taken in more of the huddled masses than any other, and the fact that we continue to do so is a symbol of our strength, not weakness.
In fact, our crazy population pump has kept our blood lines so much in flux, that in three and a half centuries we have not yet produced a face that can be recognized around the world as distinctively American.
Similarly, it may be true that our social traditions are neither as ancient nor exhalted as the European, African and Asian. There is most certainly another side to this: our history does not reek of religious massacres or Holocausts or Inquisitions, which more established societies have produced for the world in obscene variety and great profusion.
So if our drugged-out, burnt-out and pensioned-off native population is really in danger of being replaced by hordes of immigrants, then I may be in favor of it.
It could be that the next Americans will be more sober and industrious, and even optimistic.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN DEMOGRAPHICS MAGAZINE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST; CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION IMMIGRATION (93%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); SWEATSHOPS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); HISTORY (72%); GARMENT WORKERS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); GAS STATIONS (69%); FARM LABOR (68%); SUBURBS (67%); FAST FOOD (66%); AGRICULTURE (52%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (50%); 

PERSON: LIFTIG, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



164 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 16, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND OPINION;
Flashback: A Video Tour Of the 80's

BYLINE: By Susan Resnick; Susan Resnick lives in Old Bethpage and is editor of a television channel at Cablevision.

 BODY:
INSERT videotape ''Flashback of the 1980's'' into the skull, between the eyes and the brain. Press play.
1980. Tight designer jeans are hot. President Jimmy Carter requests that American athletes don't attend Moscow Summer Olympics. Mount St. Helens erupts in Washington. In the other Washington, Ronald Reagan is elected the 40th President of the United States. Former Beatle John Lennon is fatally shot outside his New York apartment. Pause. 
1981. Play. 52 American hostages freed from Iran, after being held for 444 days. Space shuttle Columbia goes into space. President Reagan gets shot by a would-be assassin. Federal air-traffic controllers go on strike, and are fired by Reagan. Sandra Day O'Connor appointed first woman Justice on the Supreme Court. Henry Fonda gets an Oscar for ''On Golden Pond.''
1982. Stop. Play. The film ''Gandhi'' sweeps the Oscars. The Equal Rights Amendment is defeated. Barney Clark receives the first permanent artificial heart. Unemployment reaches 10.4 percent. Fast forward rest of the year.
1983. Stop. Play. The world buys millions of copies of Michael Jackson's thriller album, thanks greatly to the gaining popularity of Music Television. OPEC drops its oil prices. Sally Ride is the first woman to travel in space. Every kid had to have a Cabbage Patch doll. The Soviet Union shoots down a Korean airliner, killing all 269 people aboard. A total of 214 marines are killed in Lebanon when a suicidal terrorist blows up their headquarters in Beirut. Hit pause to reflect on these two senseless acts of terrorism. Play. The United States invades Grenada.
1984. Bittersweet year for women. Vanessa Williams crowned first black to become Miss America; she's dethroned after sexually explicit photos of her appear in Penthouse magazine. Democratic candidate Walter Mondale chooses Geraldine Ferraro as his Vice Presidential candidate; there's no female Veep that election, though, as Reagan and Bush win another term. Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India assassinated by her own bodyguards. Tina Turner returns to the rock scene and wins the Best Grammy of the Year for her antiromantic ballad ''What's Love Have to Do With It?''
1985. War between Iran and Iraq escalates. Yuppies hit the Pause button to remember your friends at E. F. Hutton, who were fined $2 million for manipulating checking accounts. Play. Live Aid raises $70 million for Africa's poor. Reagan and Russian leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev meet at a summit.
1986. Space shuttle Challenger explodes, killing six astronauts and Christa McAuliffe, a teacher, aboard. Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident kills 23 in the USSR. AIDS cases are expected to increase tenfold in the five years. Hit Pause. How far have we really gone in science in the 80's? Hit Play. United States officially observes Martin Luther King Day. Securities trader Ivan Boesky is fined $100 million.
1987. Condom ads promote the catch phrase ''Safe Sex.'' Glasnost opens freedom to the Soviet People. ''Baby M'' case awards biological father William Stern all parental rights. The televangelist Jim Bakker resigns as head of the PTL after it is disclosed he has been paying hush money to a former Long Island church secretary, Jessica Hahn. Senator Gary Hart drops out of the Presidential race after he receives some extraspecial ''political support'' from a model, Donna Rice. Wall Street crashes on Black Monday. Vincent van Gogh's ''Irises'' is auctioned for $53 million.
1988. George Bush is elected 41st President of the United States. Unemployment reaches an eight-year low. Radon gas is linked to 13,000 deaths. AIDS reported to be a great threat to heterosexuals. The Rev. Jimmy Swaggert is defrocked by the Assemblies of God Church because of a ''moral failure.'' Reagan and Gorbachev hold a summit in Moscow. Two million South African Blacks strike over a proposed labor law. Mickey Mouse turns 60.
1989. Hurricane Hugo hits the Carolinas and Puerto Rico. A 6.9 earthquake rocks San Francisco. It is the 20th anniversary of Woodstock, man's landing on the moon and Sesame Street. The '60's are revisited with Batman fever, the Rolling Stones tour and peace sign/tie-dye clothes. Beijing student uprising in China. the Webster abortion ruling. The much-loved redhead Lucille Ball dies. Pete Rose makes baseball the new bettor's sport of choice. The Exxon Valdez oil spill despoils the Gulf of Alaska. Tabloid television rules the airwaves.
Click. End of tape.
Stop. rewind. Stop.
Eject.
Insert blank tape.
Welcome to the '90's.

GRAPHIC: Photos; people and events that made news in the 1980's

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); LEBANON (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%); UKRAINE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); 

SUBJECT: NINETEEN HUNDRED EIGHTIES US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ASSASSINATION (78%); OLYMPICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); SPACE SHUTTLE (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); MUSIC (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); STRIKES (69%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (64%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (60%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (60%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (57%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (51%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); AIDS & HIV (50%); POWER PLANTS (50%); 

PERSON: RESNICK, SUSAN RONALD REAGAN (93%); JIMMY CARTER (72%); MICHAEL JACKSON (50%); 



165 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 2, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND INTERVIEW: JOEL J. FLAX;
When Push Comes to Shove: Dealing With Runaway Youth

BYLINE: By STEVE VIUKER

 BODY:
SINCE April 1979, Joel J. Flax of Freeport has been executive director of the Runaway Youth Coordinating Council, a tax-exempt, nonprofit organization supported by the Nassau County Youth Board, the State Division for Youth and the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
Before, Mr. Flax was executive director of the Middle Earth Crisis Counseling and Referral Center, a full-service, Nassau County-based volunteer organization.
Mr. Flax, who was born in Brooklyn on Nov. 10, 1948, attended Nassau Community College from 1967 through 1968.
Q. What is the usual reason a youngster will come to you?
A. Maltreatment represents about 80 percent of the reasons. Lack of communication within the family and school problems are other reasons for kids to run away and ultimately seek our help. 
Q. What forms do maltreatment take?
A. Being locked up with no food, denied access to the outside world, physically and/or sexually abused, neglected and, in some cases, verbally abused.
Q. What about reports of teen drug and alcohol use on the rise?
A. I read a report that said it was down, but statistics are almost irrelevant. The problem does exist, and it really doesn't matter to me if it's more or less usage. In fact, most kids who come to us don't have that problem. Many times, it is the parents who have a drug or alcohol problem.
Q. What percentage of calls are from potential suicides?
A. Not very many. Over the years, I would say that only a handful could be identified as suicidal crisis calls. That doesn't mean that the person hasn't contemplated suicide in the past or that the situation, if it were to continue, might lead to suicide. The suicide rate for runaways is extremely high.
Q. There has been an increase in runaway youth of 400 percent over the past decade. Why?
A. The economic situation in the country has put an increasing strain on families, and that has led to a greater number of homeless and runaway people. Not all the homeless are mentally ill or alcoholics. Many are single mothers or children.
Q. How was your organization founded?
A. It was founded by people associated with the Nassau County Youth Board, Middle Earth and Walkabout, a shelter for boys. Our staff totals four, including two social workers, and we operate on a yearly budget of about $250,000. Our funding is supplemented by private donations.
Q. Did the Reagan budget cuts hurt your organization?
A. Our funding has actually increased over the last eight years. But the total budget for runaways in this country is only $25 million, and that figure easily slips through the bureaucracy. In fact, Nassau County cut off funding by $100,000 in 1988 and we recouped $20,000 of that from the Federal Government. We weren't sure of our survival for a while.
Q. Is the runaway problem different in the suburbs?
A. The degree of danger is greater in urban areas, but not the fact of that danger. A runaway is subject to more danger in urban areas. It used to be that runaways could sleep in railroad stations, but the stations are now being locked at night. Airports have become popular because they operate 24 hours a day, and you always have people around.
Q. DO you take the side of the child in a dispute? How are they involved in a dispute?
A. No. All we have to start with is an allegation. To assume that a person is guilty because of an allegation is just unfair. It isn't that the child is lying, but he or she is telling us the problem from one perspective. The parents have their side.
In many instances, one or both parents were themselves victims of an abusive cycle and are now responding in the only way they know how. If we tell the parents they are wrong, they won't want to have anything to do with us and we have not done our job.
We listen to both sides and offer to mediate, arbitrate or just open new lines of communication.
Q. Does abuse by a teacher or counselor surprise you?
A. Not at all. That has been going on for a long time. There is a raised consciousness among the press to publish those cases. But if you wanted to abuse children, you would go where children are.
You wouldn't be ugly and disgusting. You would be personable, friendly and have adults trust you. But most abuse that occurs is from people the child knows.
Q. Do Nassau and Suffolk Counties differ in caring for runaways?
A. Nassau has three components of its runaway system. One is a runaway 'hot line,' another is an emergency shelter called Nassau Haven and then there is our program. We primarily do counseling and family work services for troubled youths 10 to 21 years old.
In Suffolk, each town provides its own runaway program, and that program is funded by the county, state and Federal governments.
Q. What is the demographic makeup of your client base?
A. Kids from every type of family situation, and from all parts of Long Island, come to us. Runaways come out of families, and rich and poor people are families. Nearly 40 percent of our clients are Afro-American, 5 percent are of Hispanic background and a small percentge are Asian.
Q. Are many of these runaways out of school and pumping gas?
A. The vast majority of runaways are underachievers. If they are in school, they are usually having problems, but in most instances they are not pumping gas for a living. In many cases, these kids don't have a job.
For a county like Nassau, where education is supposed to be important, there is a large percentage of kids who have not finished high school or even junior high.
Q. Since the Island has a reputation for a high quality of life, why are there so many problems?
A. First of all, you must define quality of life. One survey put Nassau at fifth in the nation, but another had it 15th and still another had the county in the 30's. Although the income level on Long Island is high and there are numerous educational opportunities available, Nassau and Suffolk also have very high per capita taxes.
It is very hard for a young person to make a start on the Island. A study pointed out that 75 percent of the kids who leave Nassau County to attend college do not return to continue their adult lives. That is a startling and frightening statistic.
The two counties also have a poor public transportation system, and that fact makes a car a necessity. There are service jobs available, but what about a job where a kid can earn a living wage? A wage that would allow a young person to buy a house and have a life.
Schools are beginning to recognize this, and some have instituted experimental programs to train kids for the real world.
Q. Are you seeing more runaways with crack habits and AIDS?
A. Crack may be used as a quick way to make money, but drugs are not a major problem with the kids we see. As for AIDS, we may see an increase in another five years or so.
Q. Have you ever had to deal with a hopeless case?
A. I've never felt that you can't solve a problem. There are times when you must work within limitations and you wish that the outcome could have been better.
But you try to find something in every case that can be a positive. If nothing else, a youth-crisis organization can be a support system that the kid can turn to.
Q. Did you ever run away from home as a child?
A. Yes, but only for a couple of hours at a time. But I wasn't aware of terms like child abuse back then. But I did have family problems that still exist, and I suppose that is one reason why I am involved in this field.
Q. Are you better able to advise because of your upbringing?
A. Not always. I don't always see the runaways' problem as being my problem.
Q. What is your organization's success rate in regard to reuniting a runaway with his or her family?
A. We don't define returning a child to his or her family as necessarily a success. It may be that the child has no other option but to return home. Success is defined as whether we met the needs of the child and the family, whatever they were.
Q. Can you define a throwaway case?
A. A throwaway is someone who has such an intolerable situation at home that he or she must leave. It can also be a case where the parents literally push a kid out the door and say that things are tough.
Q. Can the isolation of suburbia hurt a youngster?
A. There are people who grew up on Long Island and have never been to New York City. There are people who grew up in suburban Philadelphia and never made it to the city. The cities are big, scary places. Many kids run away, but most stay within two miles of their home.
Q. Were you surprised that the recent mass murders in Montreal were committed by an abused male?
A. Not at all. The Public Broadcasting System did a show in which mass murderers were interviewed. All had been abused as children.
Q. Is it tougher growing up now than it was 20 years ago?
A. I don't know. In the 1960's, we had to worry about airplane glue, heroin and whether we would be wiped out by a nuclear holocaust. I've always felt that each era is different and that you can't compare them.
But many kids today do feel that they may not have a future. There is a feeling of hopelessness and helplessness.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUNAWAY YOUTH COORDINATING COUNCIL

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; LOST, MISSING AND RUNAWAY CHILDREN NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SUICIDE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (88%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TEEN SUICIDE (78%); UNDERAGE DRINKING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); CHILD ABUSE (74%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (65%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); 

PERSON: VIUKER, STEVE; FLAX, JOEL J JOEL J FLAX (77%); 



166 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: $500 Million Budget Question Waits in the Wings for Florio

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
ON Jan. 16, James J. Florio will take the oath of office as New Jersey's 49th governor, lead a parade in the state capital and celebrate at an inaugural ball. It could be the last chance for Mr. Florio to smile for several months.
Within weeks of taking office, Mr. Florio will deliver his first budget to the Legislature and could face the task of dealing with a projected deficit of $500 million in the fiscal year that begins on July 1.
The exact size of the fiscal problem has not been outlined. State officials are awaiting the sales-tax collections from the holiday shopping season, hoping for a shot in the arm that could ease a yearlong slump in tax revenues. 
New Jersey is not facing as serious a problem as other states in the Northeast, and the departing Governor, Thomas H. Kean, is sticking to his prediction that the current fiscal year will close on June 30 with a reserve of $250 million on hand.
The looming problem stems from the fact the budget contains built-in escalators for items like state aid to education. If revenue continues to drop below expectations, it will not be possible to meet the constitutional mandate for a balanced budget without raising taxes or cutting services.
In his election campaign, Mr. Florio, a Democrat, said he saw no reason to raise taxes, and he will be pressed to exhaust all possible economies before looking at increased revenues.
Mr. Kean, a Republican, said any increase in the income tax would hurt the state's ability to attract businesses and hold on to ones already here. He said it would be possible to increase the so-called sin taxes on alcoholic beverages and tobacco and on activities like interstate telephone service and still remain competitive with surrounding states that have higher taxes on those businesses.
Richard Roper, executive director of the Council for New Jersey Affairs at Princeton University, said, ''It seems to me Florio will face a real tough first year, given what has been reported thus far about a budget shortage.''
''Expectations that he would come into office with some new policy initiatives are clearly not going to be realized,'' he continued. ''And not only is it unlikely that he will find funds for new programs, he will have to spend most of his time finding the money to shore up efforts that have been put in place over the last eight years.''
The beginning of Mr. Florio's administration is remarkably similar to Mr. Kean's first few months in office in 1982. Mr. Kean found a $600 million deficit awating him, and with the recession that arrived that year, the shortfall approached $1 billion. The state's Economic Policy Council said last month that New Jersey stands a better chance of slipping into a recession this year than the country as a whole.
Mr. Kean and the Democratic-controlled Legislature enacted increases in the income and sales taxes to close the gap in 1982 and meet a State Supreme Court mandate for increased state spending on public schools.
When the economy turned around, these higher tax rates produced a windfall that enabled the state to assume about $1 billion in program costs passed along to the state by Reagan Administration policies and to pay for a growth in spending that saw the state budget double, to $12 billion, in Mr. Kean's eight years in office.
Mr. Florio becomes the state's new chief executive with a promise to solve some of the state's pressing problems, including high automobile-insurance premiums and environmental pollution. He has a panel working on the insurance problem and plans to appoint an environmental prosecutor to crack down on polluters.
The one requirement, members of the transition team said, for any new initiative is that it not entail increased state spending, at least until the current crisis passes.
Mr. Florio said that he still intended to go ahead with his promised outside audit of the state government, but that he did not expect it to be completed before the end of the year. He said, however, he hoped it would point the way to possible economies before it is completed.
There is a freeze on hiring and on such items as leasing or buying state cars and awarding contracts. In addition, Mr. Florio has postponed anticipated pay increases for himself, members of his cabinet and the judiciary until next year and said that if the state's economy is still in trouble, the raises might be delayed again.
The incoming Governor's plan to centralize decision making in a new governor's office of his own design and to coordinate the efforts of various departments in focusing on problem solving has been upstaged by the fiscal problems.
Mr. Florio's staff says he is emphasizing a horizontal rather than a vertical view of state government. Instead of agencies' operating independently of one another, Mr. Florio would like to work on issues with teams of high officials' crossing departmental lines. But when he announced his first six cabinet appointees at three news conferences, the questions by reporters always focused more on the economy and the budget than on the new cabinet members.
Last week Mr. Florio announced a few additional cabinet appointees, accomplishing this by circulating press releases and avoiding any contacts with reporters. Beyond saying that the frequent briefings by the Kean administration on the state's economy had been sobering and that he would not have the necessary information to strike his budget much before next month's deadline, the new Governor has kept his own counsel on what he might propose to meet the fiscal squeeze.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SALES TAX BUDGETS (92%); SALES TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RECESSION (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); EXCISE TAX (75%); INCOME TAX (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV) DAVID DAVIS (74%); 



167 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 4, Column 6; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Kean Reflects On Era

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
GOV. THOMAS H. KEAN became New Jersey's most familiar chief executive during his eight years in office.
His easy manner was made for television, much to the chagrin of his political opponents, and on Tuesday at 10 P.M., the New Jersey Network will broadcast a taped hourlong interview with the departing 48th Governor that enabled him to talk about how the job looked from his vantage point.
Mr. Kean said a chief executive could easily lose touch with reality, what with state troopers driving him everywhere, a helicopter waiting for him, people standing up when he enters a room and someone always on hand to do his bidding. 
The person who could be counted on to bring him back to earth, the Governor said, is his wife, Debby. ''She'll tell me to take out the garbage,'' he said, adding that when he asked her recently to obtain a telephone number, ''she said, 'I'm not your secretary.' ''
It was Mrs. Kean who attended all the school plays, soccer games and recitals for their three children when he could not be there.
When they were younger, the children had trouble understanding that their father could not attend all their school functions, Mr. Kean said, even though he wanted to.
 
'I Had a Funny Job'
''I told them I had a funny job,'' he said. ''And if they wanted me to attend, they had to tell me what was going to happen two or three months in advance.''
Because he wanted to spend as much time as possible with his family, Mr. Kean called his decision to live at home in Livingston and forgo the governor's mansion, Drumthwacket in Princeton Township, ''the best decision I ever made as governor.''
Mr. Kean entered office in the midst of one economic downturn and will leave on Jan. 16 in another. In the program, ''A Conversation With Governor Kean,'' Kent Manahan, the anchor for the nightly news program on the public-television network, touches on the major issues, the gains and the failures of Mr. Kean's two terms.
Much of the interview was used in an earlier program, ''The State House Years,'' in which Mr. Kean's critics and supporters also gave their views of the man and his career.
 
Familiar Criticisms
There are no independent voices in the program, although Ms. Manahan raises all the familiar criticisms of Mr. Kean in her questions: that he was lucky that most of his term was in good economic times, that he was not aggressive enough in fighting for his programs and that he has failed to support tax reform.
Mr. Kean said the sound economy helped, but said he used the added state income to reduce business taxes and provide a healthy business climate that is enabling New Jersey to weather the current slump better than other states in the Northeast. New Jersey is the only state east of the Mississippi with an AAA bond rating, he said.
He said he was as aggressive as he had to be when fighting for issues like a bill to take over failing schools, but said he did not like applying pressure and preferred to rely on persuasion rather than arm-twisting.
He said it took a year and a half before he was able to persuade some legislators that he would not trade jobs, judgeships or prosecutor appointments for their votes on legislation.
He summed up much of the job of governor as ''trying to persuade people to do things which are right, that they ought to know enough to do without your persuading them.''
Tax reform, he said, is too often used as a euphemism for raising the income tax, calling such a move deadly.
''People like to demagogue the issue and say we should tax the rich,'' Mr. Kean said. ''Hey, the rich will move and they will take their companies with them. That's what happened in other states.''
Mr. Kean said he was ''proudest of the fact that I think we have changed the way people think about the state and the way they think about themselves.''
''We used to be in the shadow of some pretty big neighbors,'' he said, ''but we're not in anyone's shadow anymore.''
He said his biggest failures were in not obtaining meaningful legislation to reduce automobile-insurance premiums or to create a coastal commission to control oceanfront growth.
Mr. Kean said his coastal initiative failed ''because the Legislature was overtly sensitive to special interests looking for profits.'' He said that in the election year just ended the Legislature decided it would rather have ''the campaign contributions of the builders than a clean coast.''
The Governor also discussed why he would never run against Senator Bill Bradley. ''It would be impossible for me,'' he said, ''to run against a friend, and to run against a friend that I also respect a great deal.''
Mr. Kean said he doubted that he would run again for office, but said ''maybe'' about considering a public appointment ''down the road.''
For the present, he is looking forward to his new job as president of Drew University. ''It's a chance,'' he said, ''to think, to write, to talk to young people and to be reinvigorated by their idealism.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CHILDREN (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); SOCCER (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TAX REFORM (60%); TAX LAW (60%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; KEAN, THOMAS H (GOV) THOMAS H KEAN (97%); 



168 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 19, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Waterways Council To Publish Newspaper

 BODY:
HOPING to increase its membership, the State Council on Waterways plans to begin publishing a newspaper in February.
The Council, a three-year old nonprofit organization based in Croton-on-Hudson and Saratoga Springs, holds an annual conference on environmental issues that affect the state's 6,000 miles of water. Now, the group hopes to add to its ranks of 150 members by offering Water Ways: New York Waterfront News for $35 and automatic membership, said Sue Morrow Flanagan, the newspaper's publisher and program administrator. 
The newspaper, to be published every two months, will report on the environment, industry, business, science, history and even art and architecture - all as they affect New York's rivers, lakes and reservoirs, the Long Island Sound and the Atlantic Ocean.
 
No Good Guys, Bad Guys
Although its view will be basically ''pro-environment,'' Ms. Flanagan said, the paper will ''report on issues'' and not point fingers at ''bad guys and good guys''
''We will look at issues, and talk to everyone,'' said Ms. Flanagan, who described herself as a former journalist who had worked with many environmental groups. ''I was once told that by talking to a developer, I was talking to the devil. But everyone deserves to be heard.''
The environmental issues she cited as most important are pollution, public access to waterways, and balancing the environment with development.
The pollution situation, she said, is improving in many rivers, but ''we've got to keep fighting.''
 
'Get Down and Dirty'
''One of our articles will entail going to communities and writing about storm drains,'' she said. ''We're going to get down and dirty. We won't just say, isn't the situation awful; we'll describe in detail how to make it better.''
The public's access to waterfront land is also a concern. ''Historically, rich folk lived on the hill and industry and migrant workers lived on the waterfront,'' she said. Now, industry has mostly moved away from the waterfront and it has become an attractive site for condominiums. ''We don't want a bunch of elitist enclaves which prohibit people from using our waterfronts,'' she said.
The newspaper will interview people across the state so that residents learn what other areas are doing. ''Upstate, people are hoping for development. They need it for economic input,'' Ms. Flanagan noted. ''Downstate, they're trying to beat back developers. Hopefully, people can learn from each other.''
 
A Goal of 20,000
Municipal officials, representatives of environmental agencies, educators, marine trade associations, tour boat operators and others have already subscribed, Ms. Flanagan said. The goal is a circulation of 20,000. (For information, write to the Council at P.O. Box 11, Croton-on-Hudson, 10520; or call 271-6041.) In addition to receiving membership in the Council, subscribers will also be entitled to lower rates for the Council's annual conference and for membership in the National Maritime Historical Society, also based in Croton-on-Hudson. Other discounts to be offered will be for a Mississippi River boat cruise line and for luxury barge travel in Ireland and France. A subscription will also provide free membership in Bed & Breakfast U.S.A., a reservation service, and, for boaters, a floating keychain.
''We want to encourage travel along waterways,'' Ms. Flanagan said. ''In addition to recognizing the serious issues, we want people to enjoy the water.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK WATERFRONT (56%); STATE COUNCIL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE COUNCIL ON WATERWAYS

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LAKES (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (71%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 



169 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 22, Column 1; Education Life

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: SPECIAL SECTION: Science Under Scrutiny;
Losing the Race

BYLINE: By Robert Reinhold

 BODY:
THE CHORUS of alarms over the deterioration of science education in American colleges has reached a crescendo. A familiar air of crisis prevailed when the physical sciences faculty gathered for a special convocation at the University of California at Los Angeles last month to hear the Dean of Physical Sciences, Clarence Hall Jr., warn: ''Unless there is a revolution in the way we teach and the way we help students learn, it is obvious that the nation's economic standards will follow those of the test scores and the number of majors in math and physical science.''
It is a common plaint, with the nation increasingly seen as losing its science prowess to Japan, a soon-to-be unified Western Europe and a newly opened Eastern bloc. Not that there haven't been warnings. Four years ago a report for the National Science Board, which oversees the National Science Foundation, concluded: ''The deterioration of collegiate science, mathematics and engineering education is a grave, long-term'' national threat. It cited ''uninspired, tedious and dull'' lab instruction, ''unimaginative, poorly organized'' courses and faculty whose knowledge is obsolete. 
The growing sense of crisis has focused concern on the vast majority of students do not plan professional careers in science or engineering, and are widely thought to be emerging from college ignorant of the powerful scientific and technical forces that shape the world politically and economically. The training of the professionals is generally considered to be in better repair, if too narrow and specialized.
''Colleges and universities let people in without demanding that they have science knowledge and let them out the same way,'' said F. James Rutherford, chief education officer at the American Association for the Advancement of Science, which has mounted the Project on Liberal Education in the Sciences to revamp science education. The project is sponsored by the Carnegie Corporation of New York.
Even with the recent strengthening of college core curriculums, American students generally graduate with only a smattering of science. At Harvard, for example, nonscience majors need take only two one-semester science courses, one in physics or chemistry, the other in biology or behavioral science. Stanford requires one quarter-long course in science, one in mathematics and one in computers, such as word processing.
Some colleges offer courses made palatable by removing the math. More often, the science requirement is filled by a boring introductory ''survey'' course. ''To save money, the universities have often removed the labs from these courses,'' and many are only lectures, said Prof. Lester G. Paldy, director of the Center for Science, Mathematics and Technology Education at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. ''So you have a large room filled with nonmajors as captives. It's amazing they haven't revolted.''
What is needed, educators say, is a new kind of interdisciplinary science course for nonscientists. This would ''seek to emphasize concepts and understanding over and above isolated facts and memorization and leave the students with a systematic program for thinking about the phenomena of the natural world in a disciplined manner,'' said John A. Moore, professor of biology at the University of California at Riverside, who directs ''Science as a Way of Knowing,'' a curricular project of the American Society of Zoologists, also supported by the Carnegie Corporation of New York.
An example is the ''Liberal Arts/Mathematics Based Alternative'' at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. Founded a year and a half ago, it is an alternative to the school's regular undergraduate core. Under this two-year program, students who major in sociology, history, philosophy or other liberal arts take 56 credit hours of core courses including calculus, probability, discrete math (for computers), physics and the cosmos, natural philosophy and computer science. There is also a senior thesis or project in the student's regular major that must use math or computing.
It's meant to make liberal arts ''more responsive to the way the world is,'' said Prof. John C. Angus, a chemical engineer who helped develop the program. ''A science course for nonscientists normally means one without math,'' he said, which doesn't make sense. ''Our earth science course doesn't just describe rocks and weather,'' he explained. ''It models, in mathematical terms, how these geological processes evolved.''
 
Where Science and Public Policy Meet
One widely admired approach to bringing science to nonscientists is the Human Biology program at Stanford University. The program, now in its 20th year, is meant for students entering fields such as medicine, law, business, teacher education and public health - in which public policy and philosophy often intersect with science. Thus it offers courses like ''The Social Impact of the New Biology,'' taught by Barbara Rae-Venter, a patent lawyer who also has a Ph.D. in biochemistry.
This year 320 of Stanford's 10,000 undergraduates are in the program, which is taught by some of the faculty's famous scientists. But partly because it is hard to get top faculty members to break from research and graduate training, it has seldom succeeded elsewhere.
If most schools demand little science of nonscientists, an increasing number are emphasizing an understanding of the scientific method and standards of proof rather than memorization of facts. ''These need to be well understood because so many modern social and political problems have large scientific and technological components,'' said Prof. Edward O. Wilson, chairman of the faculty committee at Harvard's Science Center, where undergraduate science is taught.
Standing in the path of such experiments in science education, however, is the system of academic rewards. ''Young faculty are under great pressure to publish,'' said Professor Moore of Riverside. ''Any large effort toward teaching is career-threatening.'' Professor Paldy of Stony Brook noted, too, that basic teaching is often handled by foreign graduate students who bring a measure of sexism and racism that produce a ''debilitating environment'' for nonscience majors.
New teaching methods ought to recognize that young people come out of a video age, argues Orville L. Chapman, a professor of organic chemistry who is leading efforts to revamp science teaching at U.C.L.A. These efforts include having cognitive scientists redesign the classroom for the new generation. ''We have faculties that are very verbal, but students who cannot learn by reading,'' Professor Chapman said. ''The computer screen seems to appeal to them. But it is hard to persuade faculty to give up the chalkboard and textbook to do something different.''
And it may not be effective. Echoing the view of senior scientists nationwide, Professor Chapman said, ''We've got to change the whole high school curriculum. We cannot cure it in college. It is very difficult to deal with functional illiterates in science.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (77%); WESTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE CORP LTD (64%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (60%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT



170 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 24, Column 1; Education Life

LENGTH: 4335 words

HEADLINE: SPECIAL SECTION: Science Under Scrutiny;
Where the Talent Goes

BYLINE: By Dennis Hevesi

 BODY:
THEIR stories are inspiring - of children who experienced a calling, of teen-agers clasped in the exhilarating grip of curiosity, of adults still driven by the delicious joy of discovery.
In no way do they constitute a scientific sample. They are nine winners of the Westinghouse Science Talent Search - the Nobel Prize of high school science - their names plucked from among the 1,920 cited since 1942, when the program started, and supplied by Science Service, the agency that administers the annual, nationwide talent search.
Most were nurtured in family cultures that supported their scientific urgings. Some had parents who were scientists themselves. Almost all had a mentor, usually a teacher wise enough to see some spark that set apart one bright face from the blur of too many students in too many classes. 
They have gone on to great things - doctorates, medical degrees, professorships, MacArthur Foundation ''genius awards,'' Nobel Prizes. Some have made discoveries that heal the sick or redefine the way the universe works. Others are in the midst of making such discoveries.
At the same time, their success and the elements that fostered it raise troubling questions about the focus and efficacy of science education in the United States.
They themselves raise the questions:
Has the collection of facts -the ''vast vat of knowledge,'' as one of them calls it - expanded so rapidly that students are forced into mere mechanical memorization?
Has the ability to apply quantitative reasoning been programmed into oblivion by computers and calculators and prepackaged software?
More profoundly, does the nation's scientific survival rest with a few novas, bright new stars, with the self-propelling will to fuel their quest?
Can the United States retain its intellectual rigor and economic vitality by depending on the students who hear their own call while, as some contend, the system ceases to issue that call?
 
NINA SCHOR
Assistant professor of neurology
THERE were the medicine-cabinet experiments - ''take Mercurochrome and alcohol and mix'' - at age 5.
A year later, the chemistry set appeared. ''My folks bought it, but I was deemed too young to use it,'' said Nina Schor. ''So my dad showed me the experiment with the baking soda fizzling.''
At 9, she asked for the microscope. ''That definitely caught my imagination,'' said Dr. Schor, now 34 and an assistant professor of neurology at Children's Hospital in Pittsburgh.
The intellectual soil in which a future scientist could set down roots had been cultivated by her family. ''My father is a physicist, and that was my introduction to science,'' Dr. Schor said.
In such surroundings, it wasn't long before a young girl came to realize that it wasn't just fizzle and squiggly things under a lens that offered a deeper satisfaction. ''It was the way of thinking, the scientific approach to problems,'' she said.
And so in 1972 Nina Schor, who was about to graduate from Benjamin Cardozo High School in Bayside, Queens, became the first woman to win the top prize in the Westinghouse Science Talent Search. ''I did an experiment showing that aldehydes, chemicals which are common pollutants in the atmosphere, affect the chlorophyll in a one-celled plant called euglena,'' Dr. Schor said.
''The notion was that many of these common pollutants were poisoning our food and oxygen sources,'' she said. ''In fact, under fairly low concentrations, these organisms did lose their chlorophyll, basically got bleached.''
From there, it was a dual major in molecular biophysics and biochemistry at Yale; a medical degree from Cornell and a Ph.D. from Rockefeller University, all eventually leading to Dr. Schor's current search for chemotherapeutic methods to battle tumors in the nervous systems of children.
Dr. Shor said there was no single person or ''eureka moment'' that turned her on to science. Family support aside, she said she was fortunate that ''we had a research course where you spent the first half doing science literature searches and designing experiments and then, in the second half, did the experiment.''
Such courses are ''very uncommon, unfortunately,'' she said. ''I think that part of the problem with science education is that we tend to teach children collections of fact, rather than how to think. I teach a lot of graduate students and medical students. There's been progressive decline in their ability to reason out things having to do with quantity, to derive relationships without a memorized formula.''
Dr. Schor believes that, ''on the one hand, the body of facts that we consider useful has grown so that students spend too much time memorizing. On the other, I wonder whether the wholesale use of calculators, computers, prepackaged software, makes students no longer able to think.
''Maybe we give those things to people too early.''
 
THERON STANFORD
Graduate student
THE SUN was going down that day when Theron Stanford's mother finally came to school, looking for her son.
''See, there was this new teacher who had just graduated from M.I.T. I was picking his brain, and we forgot about the clock,'' Mr. Stanford said recently with the enthusiasm of the 12-year-old he was then.
When he was 5, Theron was already so good at numbers that he beat teachers at math games. While in junior high he mastered high school algebra, geometry and trigonometry. So when he got to San Marino (Calif.) High School they sent him to the California Institute of Technology to take calculus.
''I would not be detoured,'' said Mr. Stanford, who now, at 25, is a graduate student in math at the University of California at Berkeley. ''I loved math so much that when I was 10 I realized I wasn't getting enough out of the school system,'' he said. ''So I went to the library and checked out books on number theory.''
It was, not surprisingly, a math project that earned Mr. Stanford Westinghouse honors in 1982. ''Suppose I look at all numbers between 1 and 100,'' he said in concluding a complicated explanation of his research, ''What kind of patterns could I see?''
But what's the point? ''There's not necessarily a point,'' he confessed. ''It's searching for some knowledge. My project might not have had an application to business or technology, but it did increase the vast vat of knowledge.''
All through school, there have been teachers willing to help Mr. Stanford fill his vat of knowledge. Some were not particularly grounded in science. ''If the teacher is wise, that can be enough,'' he said. ''For example, there was a junior high teacher who noticed that I took the tests too fast and spent half the period napping,'' he said. That was the teacher who arranged for Mr. Stanford to jump ahead to high school courses.
 
ROBERT AXELROD
Political scientist
IT WAS like the 'Millionaire' show'' - the 1950's television drama in which an unsuspecting citizen is suddenly handed a check for $1 million by an anonymous stranger.
That is the way Robert Axelrod describes the day two years ago when, out of the blue, the call came that he had been chosen for a MacArthur fellowship, in which unsuspecting experts in a variety of fields are granted up to $375,000 over a five-year period to do whatever work they want.
It was not his first award. In 1961, when he was a senior at Evanston Township High School in Illinois, Dr. Axelrod's computer simulation of evolution earned him Westinghouse honors.
Today, Dr. Axelrod is a political scientist - which some might consider a contradiction in terms. ''In college, the University of Chicago, I earned a bachelor's in math,'' he said. ''I was looking around for some science to apply it to. Political science seemed the most interesting.'' Now, Dr. Axelrod is Distinguished Professor of Political Science at the University of Michigan.
In choosing him for the fellowship, the MacArthur Foundation cited work Dr. Axelrod had done on what he calls ''the evolution of cooperation.''
''This was a study,'' he explained, ''of what strategies can get egoists, self-interested people, to cooperate. A strategy of 'tit for tat' works well. If you get them to cooperate on the first move, they tend to always do what the other guy did on subsequent moves. If both are selfish neither does very well.''
Dr. Axelrod sees applications for such a strategy in superpower relations. ''One of my main interests is the arms race, and 'tit for tat' has this sort of flavor,'' he said. ''If both sides are selfish, they buy a lot of weapons but don't gain any advantage.''
Political science, Dr. Axelrod contends, is becoming more scientific. ''One way in which that happens is computer simulation,'' he said.
In his case, Dr. Axelrod said, interest in math preceded interest in science. ''I had some wonderful teachers at Evanston who helped me see the joys of science. Especially helpful was a class set up to encourage individual projects. The first semester, students picked subjects. The second semester they did individual research or experiments. And the teacher was only present the first day of class. He was next door for private, individual advice, but he made it clear that it was our responsibility.''
''A lot depends on the teacher's ability to make it exciting,'' Dr. Axelrod said. ''It is often the case that teachers want to be inspiring but are up against so many handicaps, such as discipline, class size, lack of quality resources. If some of those burdens were lightened the teachers could begin to shine.''
 
ATOM SARKAR
Cancer researcher
BASEBALL camp or lab work - that was the choice facing Atom Sarkar 10 years ago. The Philadelphia Phillies lost a budding second-baseman.
Mr. Sarkar, now 23 and researching breast cancer at the Medical College of Georgia in Augusta, emigrated with his family from India at age 10 months. He considers himself as American as baseball.
''Up until ninth grade, I had great designs to be a second baseman for the Phillies,'' Mr. Sarkar said, noting that his family first settled near Pennsylvania in New Jersey. ''Then in ninth grade, Dad felt I should decide whether to go to baseball camp or do research in a laboratory to see if I would like science.'' Atom chose the molecular virology lab at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, where his father was the chief scientist.
When he was born, said Mr. Sarkar, explaining how he got his unusual first name, his father was writing a dissertation in biophysics, ''and my mother's grandfather - a very learned gentleman who was Speaker of the West Bengali Parliament - felt their child should be named Atom, whether it was a boy or a girl.''
Mr. Sarkar loves the name. ''No one usually forgets it,'' he said. ''There aren't many of me around.''
Soon after starting work in his father's lab, the boy was hooked. ''I opened up my first mouse and it was amazing, overwhelming. I was in awe at how beautiful nature is.''
When the family moved to Manhattan, Atom was accepted into Stuyvesant High School, which specializes in science and math. There, in 1984, under the tutelage of a Rockefeller University professor, Michael Wallach, he began studying malaria parasites. ''I did a genetic analysis of a particular parasite protein that is involved in the attaching, or attacking, process into the red blood cell.''
Mr. Sarkar's research was overtaken by progress. ''That year a group from N.Y.U. came out with a vaccine for malaria, and that blew the wind out of our sails,'' he said. Still, the work earned him a Westinghouse scholarship.
''At Stuyvesant,'' he said, ''the teachers instilled a sense of curiosity. That's what makes the school so great. My calculus teacher was really not the greatest expert, and he would be the first to admit it. But there was just a magic about the way he taught. He made me want to learn.'' And that was true for ''a whole host of teachers,'' Mr. Sarkar said.
''You need somebody who doesn't turn you off. There are so many monotone teachers, the same lecture year after year. You need someone who instills that vibrant spirit that makes you realize that this is such a wonderful endeavor.''
And, Mr. Sarkar contends, ''It could be replicated in regular schools. Great people, people who can motivate you, are everywhere.''
 
PAUL TESCHAN
Medical researcher
IT WAS 1942, the middle of World War II, and the first year of the Westinghouse Science Talent Search. Paul Teschan was one of the contest's two top winners.
No one was more surprised than he, and no one's life could have been more affected by it.
The contestants were asked to write an essay: ''How can science help win the war?'' ''It was an upbeat notion,'' said Dr. Teschan, now 65, ''that brains and analytic capacity and a sense of serving a higher cause would not only be motivating but enabling for scientists to get with the war effort.''
Dr. Teschan, then a teen-ager, had served a stint as chemistry supply room monitor at Shorewood High School in Shorewood, Wis. But in no way was he certain that science was his path. ''It came as a total surprise, really, that I even should have been among the 40 finalists,'' he said. ''At the banquet, when they awarded me the top scholarship, I was floored. It affirmed that I had some of the ingredients necessary for success in science.''
The boy had the ingredients, but - as with many other Westinghouse winners - his family had set the pot on the burner and a teacher had stirred. ''As long ago as I can remember, our family, at the dinner table, was interested in geological, astronomical developments,'' Dr. Teschan said. ''Before I was around, my grandfather used to gather the family and narrate the story of evolution. The fascination, the aliveness with which he told this, imprinted my uncles and aunts and my dad,'' who was a mechanical engineer. ''At the dinner table, they recalled this.''
At the time he won the Westinghouse award, Dr. Teschan said, ''Our family was just coming out of surviving the Great Depression. Dad was in the Army. The award gave me the financial backing to go to college'' - Carleton College in Northfield, Minn.
Later Dr. Teschan earned a medical degree from the University of Minnesota, and spent 21 years as an Army medical officer, during which he specialized in research on acute kidney failure among combat casualties. He retired in 1969 as a colonel, and is now doing kidney research at Vanderbilt University in Nashville.
''The impetus for science came from my chemistry teacher, Harold Wierks,'' Dr. Teschan said. ''He asked me to serve in the chemistry supply room. When I had questions, he and I could get together. He's the one who said, 'Why don't you try for the science talent search?'
''One can have an interior sense of one's role or mission. But it's an enormous boost to have that interior sense confirmed by people who know their way around. And it's important that all of my interests in scholarship were supported, but I wouldn't say pushed, by my parents.''
Dr. Teschan gives much of the credit for his success, however, to ''the whole school system in that town,'' Shorewood, ''of something like 15,000 people. We had a superb faculty. It has something to do with teaching the students rather than just the subject.''
 
ROGER CUFFEY
Paleontologist
WHEN HE was a high school freshman in Indiana, Roger Cuffey circulated a petition calling for the establishment of a one-semester course in earth science. It was 1953, four years before the Soviet Union launched Sputnik, the first manmade satellite.
''The principal said he would like to do it, but he just couldn't,'' said Dr. Cuffey. ''He didn't know where to find teachers; there wasn't room in the curriculum.''
How many would-be scientists, in schools across the nation, never fulfilled their potential because of similar conditions, and how many were never even exposed to the possibility, cannot be counted. But Dr. Cuffey, now 50 and a paleontologist at Pennsylvania State University, wasn't left at the dock; he was already on board. Both his father and mother were astronomers, and the boy knew early on that science was his life's ship.
When he was very young, Dr. Cuffey recalled, ''Dad taught at the Naval Academy, and near there were some famous fossil shell beds, the Calvert Cliffs. We would go on field trips together. I started picking up shark's teeth and fossil shells when I was 3.''
Periodically, his father's duties took him to Washington, and the elder Cuffey would drop off his son at the Smithsonian Institution. ''I would spend the day looking at the dinosaur skeletons and got to know them as personal friends, as only a small kid can,'' Dr. Cuffey said. ''What it may mean is that a scientist has to be born, or at least be born into a family that supports the interest.''
The support was palpable. In 1956, when he was a senior at University High School in Bloomington, Ind., Roger Cuffey and his father built a high-powered reflecting telescope. The following March, Roger won a Westinghouse scholarship, ''for a project in which I looked at Mars through that telescope and mapped the planet's surface. This was before there were any satellites to go around it,'' he said.
At that time, the science program at his high school was unremarkable. ''It always seemed to involve relatively less interesting, simple things like levers and pulleys,'' Dr. Cuffey said. ''My guess is that it was probably what they knew and what they had equipment for. But I know that as time went on, many school systems became more heavily involved in more interesting, complex sides of science. I'm sure this was stimulated by Sputnik.''
Aside from his family's support, Dr. Cuffey had the help of a teacher named Jack Munsee. ''He provided broadening opportunities for me,'' Dr. Cuffey said. ''For instance, he had me present some short papers to the Indiana Junior Academy of Sciences.''
Dr. Cuffey said that, ''without Jack, I still would have gone on, I'm sure.'' But when asked whether a student who lacks either a mentor or family support would be inspired by the nation's system of science education, he said, ''Probably not.''
 
GAY ANN WILSON
Board member, Center for Excellence in Education
GAY ANN WILSON acknowledges that she ''did not go on to be a Nobel Prize-winning scientist.'' She did win a Westinghouse scholarship in 1960 while a senior at North Phoenix High School in Arizona, for proving the feasibility - if not the widespread applicability -of using beans and peas as substances for typing blood.
As Gay Ann Edlund, she graduated Phi Beta Kappa with a degree in biology from Stanford University in 1964. Then she married, moved to San Diego, had children and worked as a volunteer in a mental hospital.
But Mrs. Wilson, the wife of United States Senator Pete Wilson of California, is not a loss for science. She is a board member of the Center for Excellence in Education, an organization formerly called the Rickover Science Institute for its founder, Adm. Hyman Rickover. ''We hand-pick students between their junior and senior years who excel in math and science and bring them to Washington for a six-week summer program where we train them in research techniques,'' Mrs. Wilson said. ''They have two weeks of classroom instruction from top high school and college science teachers, three weeks in a mentored program in a private or government agency, and then come back to put their project together. Many of these students use that research to apply for the Westinghouse.''
As a child, Mrs. Wilson said, she ''had no family support'' for an interest in science. ''My mother considered it unfeminine,'' she said. But her first high school chemistry teacher was a woman. ''She also had a black belt in karate,'' Mrs. Wilson said, ''so she was larger than life for me.'' That teacher, whom Mrs. Wilson recalls only as Miss Stevenson, recruited her protegee into science.
''I think teachers and professors must consider themselves recruiters for science, not merely teachers,'' Mrs. Wilson said. ''It can even be someone who isn't so good in science, but is a good recruiter.''
Mrs. Wilson has become a recruiter herself. ''I realized that California was not doing well in the Westinghouse search and I didn't know why,'' she said. ''There are always 40 national winners. New York will invariably have 17 to 20 of the 40, and California will be lucky to have 3. So I have been working with Governor [George] Deukmejian's education adviser toward establishing science summer school around the state.'' The idea, she said, is ''to get kids for two or three summers before they get into high school.''
Mrs. Wilson would also like to establish two or three regional science-math high schools in California. ''I don't think science teachers have the status they should have,'' she said. ''Many times they were not science majors, but are assigned to teach it. Consequently, they aren't excited about it.''
Elementary school science, she said, ''has got to be taught by someone who is excited about it, so we get to these kids early.''
 
ANH TUAN NGUYEN-HUYNH
Biochemistry undergraduate
ANH TUAN Nguyen-Huynh brings to science a survivor's intensity of intention.
Only four years after arriving in the United States from Vietnam, with little facility in English, Mr. Nguyen-Huynh won a Westinghouse scholarship for a project on the pharmacology of antipsychotic drugs. He was then a senior at University High School in Cleveland. Now he is a biochemistry major at Harvard University.
Mr. Nguyen-Huynh was born in Saigon, South Vietnam, in 1968, soon after the Tet offensive. When Saigon collapsed in 1975, his father, a South Vietnamese Army officer, was arrested and later died in captivity. Mr. Nguyen-Huynh said that in 1981, at age 13, ''my mother decided we must leave because she thinks we are in danger, and our future was bleak.''
With about 40 other people, he, his mother and sister crowded into a fishing boat for a terrifying voyage across the Gulf of Siam to Thailand. Five times pirates boarded the boat. ''They took jewelry, clothing, money,'' he said. Miraculously, no one was harmed. ''The adults were very scared,'' Mr. Nguyen-Huynh said, ''but I was young and didn't know better.''
After four months in a refugee camp near Songkla, Thailand, and eight months in a camp in Indonesia, Mr. Nguyen-Huynh stepped off a plane in Seattle during a winter storm. Stooping down, he picked up a handful of white, wet matter. ''I wanted to touch snow,'' he said. ''I had only heard there was such a thing.''
Asian students in America, Mr. Nguyen-Huynh said, lean toward the sciences ''because the language barrier is less, but what consolidated my interest was when I worked at Cleveland Metropolitan General Hospital with Dr. Anne Andorn, a psychiatrist who was studying antipsychotic drugs.''
Mr. Nguyen-Huynh said, ''It's hard for me to say, for other people, whether high school preparation here is solid.'' What is needed, he said, are ''teachers who care about their subject, a curriculum that stresses understanding of concepts rather than straight memorization, opportunity for some hands-on experience.
''The interest has to be nurtured, encouraged,'' he said.
 
SHELDON GLASHOW
Professor and Nobel laureate in physics
SOME teachers are smart enough to admit their ignorance, and Sheldon Glashow appreciates that. ''I remember in seventh grade, my teacher was talking about astronomy and I asked her: 'Why is the man in the moon always facing the earth?,' '' he said. ''That meant the lunar day corresponded to the Earth's day. It seemed to me a coincidence that was not implied by anything she had taught us.''
Fortunately, that teacher, at Junior High School 52 in Manhattan, was secure enough to respond by saying she did not know. ''That was a good answer,'' Dr. Glashow said, ''because it is rare that you find a teacher so brazenly willing to flaunt her ignorance.''
What the future Westinghouse winner and Nobel laureate learned was that ''there simply were questions the teachers could not answer. That turned me toward books.''
Both his father, a plumber, and his brother, who became a dentist, ''regarded Einstein as a hero to be emulated,'' Dr. Glashow recalled. With their encouragement, he earned admission to the Bronx High School of Science. There he made friends with another student, Steven Weinberg, and around them gathered a group of students who became ''kind of a school within a school,'' Dr. Glashow said. ''You know, long talks about science over the phone, on the subway home.''
In 1950, during his senior year, Dr. Glashow won a Westinghouse scholarship for a project investigating the ''hydroponic growth of tomato plants with selenium, a chemical element, replacing sulfur.'' Hydroponics is the technique of growing plants in fluids.
He and Mr. Weinberg went on to Cornell together, then met again at the University of California at Berkeley, this time as professors. Later they found themselves at Harvard in academic positions, and in 1979, they shared the Nobel Prize in Physics. The Nobel committee cited their contribution in discovering a piece of the puzzle called the unified field theory, which proposes that the universe's four fundamental forces - gravity, electromagnetism, the strong force and the weak force - are connected.
Dr. Glashow, still at Harvard teaching physics, is concerned about the state of science education in America. ''At the junior high and high school level, it stinks on hot ice,'' he said. ''With exceptions, the teachers know little and the books are worse.''
A large part of the problem is systemic, he contends. ''The only way you can take physics is first to take biology and chemistry, which is maniacal because what we do is teach them as three independent disciplines, which they are not.''
Because of such problems, he said, ''The brightest American kids are no longer going into science, they are going into investment banking.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nina Schor (The New York Times/Scott Goldsmith) (pg. 24); Theron Stanford (The New York Times/Terrence McCarthy) (pg. 25); Robert Axelrod (pg. 26); Atom Sarkar (The New York Times/Walter D. Unks) (pg. 27); Paul Teschan (The New York Times/Dan Loftin) (pg. 28); Roger Cuffey (pg. 29); Gay Ann Wilson (The New York Times/Jose R. Lopez) 9pg. 30); Anh Tuan Nguyen-Huynh (The New York Times/Joe Wrinn) (pg. 31); Sheldon Glashow (Tom Graham) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SCIENCE SERVICE INC (79%); SCIENCE SERVICE (57%); SCIENCE SERVICE (57%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; WESTINGHOUSE SCIENCE TALENT SEARCH STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS NINA SCHOR (90%); 



171 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2857 words

HEADLINE: Images of Blacks Refracted in a White Mirror

BYLINE: By GRACE GLUECK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
When white American artists looked at black Americans, what did they see? Stereotypes, like banjo players, watermelon eaters, slaves and idlers? Or dignity and purpose? All of the above, as evidenced by a and idlers? Or dignity and purpose? All of the above, as evidenced by a complex new show, ''Facing History: The Black Image in American Art, 1710-1940,'' to open at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington on Saturday. (After closing in Washington, it will move to the Brooklyn Museum in New York, opening April 25.) The show was organized by Guy C. McElroy, a black art historian, and takes cues from the ''new'' scholarship that examines works of art in their political and socioeconomic context. It documents the ways in which American artists ''reinforced a number of largely restrictive stereotypes of black identity, '' as Mr. McElroy writes in his introduction to the handsome catalogue. Yet so subtly were some of of many of the artists, that they are not always apparent to the viewer. In recent years, many art historians have been digging into such works as John Singleton Copley's ''Watson and the Shark,'' a 1788 painting of a rescue attempt, to find in it a subtext of racial and political conflict. 
In an interview, Mr. McElroy said, 'All art is by nature a political statement. It represents a way of life in society primarily as seen by the majority culture, and in the case of blacks, influenced by the subjects' lack of access to money, education and social power. So the show is clearly a statement about the politics of black life in American society.''
While it was being organized. ''Facing History'' was criticized by the head of one prominent black institution, who refused to lend a painting to the Corcoran on the grounds that such a show should present a more positive image of blacks, done by black artists. In refusing to lend ''The Banjo Lesson,'' by the 19th-century black painter Henry O. Tanner, William R. Harvey, president of Hampton University in Hampton, Va., complained that the show did not include works by black artists depicting ''images that are both real and positive.''
Works by four major black artists of the 19th century, Edmonia Lewis, Joshua Johnston, Edward Bannister and Robert Duncanson, are included in the show, however, along with some by 20th-century black artists. But because no other representative Tanner could be found, the exhibition now lacks a painting by the artist - a student and friend of Eakins's -who is widely regarded as the most talented black painter of the 19th century.
''We are showing black artists to provide a contrast between blacks looking at themselves and the majority culture looking at blacks,'' Mr. McElroy said. ''Yet their images are not ideologically separate from those of the white artists. Their techniques and values were based on mainstream culture. Conscious efforts to cret a 'black' style didn't occur until the 1960's.''
Mr. McElroy believes that the exhibition conveys the ''spiritual strength of people who managed to survive in spite of terrible odds. When you look at this show, you won't feel subjected to a ''negative experience,'' he says. ''The paintings are too beautiful and the points they make are too strong in presenting the complexities of African-American life.''
To help the viewer better ''read'' the hidden messages in paintings that do not seem obviously pejorative, the show is heavily annotated, with wall texts, a brochure and, of course, the catalogue, which has an introduction by Mr. McElroy and also by Henry Louis Gates Jr., W.E.B. DuBois Professor of Literature at Cornell University.
 
Seeking the Subtext
The show is the latest and one of the most ambitious in a series of endeavors to examine the perception of blacks by artists reflecting a majority culture, and the first to be done by a black art historian. Two earlier exhibitions mounted by Sidney Kaplan, now professor emeritus of American literature and American art at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and a founder of the W.E.B. DuBois department of Afro-American studies there, served as important preludes. One was ''The Portrait of the Negro in American Painting'' at Bowdoin College, in 1964, which included about 60 paintings, mostly by white artists, covering the period from 1715 to the 1960's. The other was ''The Black Presence in the Era of Revolution, 1770-1800,'' a 1973 show of documents and pictures at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington. (a revised and expanded book based on the catalogue has recently been issued by the University of Massachusetts Press.) There is also the massive research project begun some 20 years ago by the Menil Foundation of Houston, which has so far produced four volumes of documentation and interpretation of the portrayal of blacks in Western art. The last one, published in 1989, was ''The Image of the Black in Western Art: From the American Revolution to World War I,'' by the English historian Hugh Honour. Another Menil publication, ''Winslow Homer's Images of Blacks: The Civil War and Reconstruction Years,'' 1988, by Karen C.C. Dalton and Peter H. Wood, was accompanied by a touring show that originated at the Menil Collection in Houston last year. Mr. McElroy credits both these books as offering 'startling insights that have dramatically revised our understanding of how white artist and audiences have historically viewed black subjects.''
 
From Caricature To Eloquence
The 120 objects in the Corcoran show include paintings, sculptures and works on paper, by such stellar names as John Singleton Copley, Thomas Eakins, Winslow Homer, Augustus Saint-Gaudens, Frederic Remington Charles Demuth and Jacob Lawrence. But there are also relative unkowns, among them Thomas Ball, Charles Deas, Edward Troye, Christain Mayr and Joseph Decker.
The approaches range from outright caricature, like Edward Potthast's ''Brother Sims's Mistake,'' which pokes fun at a black church congregation, to precise and eloquent obsrvation, as in Saint-Gaudens's head of a Civil War soldier, a study done for a monument commemorating the 54th Massachusetts Regiment, the first black volunteer unit, which fought with distinction during the Civil War (and whose history is told in the current movie ''Glory'').
The subjects run from such serious matters as abolition, exemplified by Eastman Johnson's tense ''Ride for Liberty - The Fugitive Slaves,'' to lighthearted revelry, as in Reginald Marsh's high-energy ''Tuesday Night at the Savoy Ballroom.'' A famous icon is Copley's big, dramatic ''Watson and the Shark,'' 1778, now seen as an allegory of the American Revolution. But there are also simple paintings like Harry Roseland's ''Wake Up, Dad,'' in which an elderly man dozng in a church pew is nudged awake by his wife. All in all, the show gives a penetrating reading of blacks viewed by whites: as inferiors and equals, as individuals and abstractions, as figures of fun and of respect, as workers and passive bystanders, as childlike dependents and strong role models.
 
The Thinking Behind the Show
In hatching ''Facing History,'' Mr. McElroy said, he first thought of assembling negative images in popular art, racist ephemera consisting of broadsides, cartoons, sheet music, posters, dolls and so forth. In fact, he and Jane Livingston - who as chief curator and associate director of the Corcoran recruited him for the project - amassed a huge file pertaining to both fine and popular art. ''If we'd used the racist ephemera, we would have had something like 450 items in the show, and it would have been a much more frightening exhibition,'' Mr. McElroy said. ''So we decided to confine it to fine art.'' Besides, Ms. Livingston says, ''in the fine arts there is a more complex and layered reality. Poltical cartoons and other popular imagery by definition are somplistic and very often jingoistic, whereas a cultured, conscious artist is a synthesizer, an assimilator and an interpreter of his own time. He brings to his work a rich communal background. In our age we've had so much fine art drawing on popular art that we tend to forget the mission that the artist has assumed in other societies and at other times.''
But, while the show is full of beautiful paintings, it still has the potential for controversy, says Ms. Livingston, no stranger to controversy herself. It was she who booked the show of photographs by Robert Mapplethorpe that was canceled by Christina Orr-Cahall, the Corcoran's former director, last summer. In protest over the cancellation, Ms. Livingston resigned her post in September - to take effect this month. It will be remembered that the Mapplethorpe show, which contained photographs of homosexual and sadomasochistic practices, was partly financed by the National Endowment for the Arts and was wiped from the Corcoran's schedule to avoid heightening a Congressional battle shaping up over the Endowment's grant-making policies. ''Facing History'' has also been given a grant by the Endowment - to the tune of $75,000 - but will presumably not result in the firestorm generated by the Mapplethorpe show.
Mr. McElroy - confined to a wheelchair since the summer of 1987, when an automobile accident left him a paraplegic - served for eight years as a curator and then assistant director at the Bethune Museum-Archive in Washington, which is devoted to the history of black women in America. Now working toward a Ph.D at the University of Maryland, he conceived the idea for ''Facing History'' five or six years ago after studying the 19th-century artist William Sidney Mount in a class on genre painting.
''He was one of the first to portray African Americans,'' Mr. McElroy said, ''and I'd heard that his work was positive or neutral. But it seemd to me that though he created paintings depicting African Americans in a sympathetic and natural manner, they didn't break from the idea of blacks as minstrels, servants, entertainters, members of the slave class. I thought after that it would interesting to look at other American artists.''
 
Decoding the Shark
Fueled by the efforts of scholars before him, Mr. McElroy gives complex readings of well-known works. No one who sees the show, for instance, is ever again likely to view John Singleton Copley's famous ''Watson and the Shark,'' as merely a dramatic painting of a rescue attempt. Commisioned by Brook Watson, a rich Englishman with strong slave-trade connections, it depicts an incident from Watson's youth in which, while swimming in Havana Harbor, he lost a leg to a shark.
In the painting, we see young Watsn floating helplessly on his back in the water, the shark's jaws agape nearby, as a group of men in a dory try to rescue him. The key figure in the boat is a black man, his face contorted in concern, as he holds one end of a lifeline flung out to the victim.
There has been some argument over the interpretation of the balck man's role. Albert Boime, a professor of art history at the University of Claifornia at Los Angeles, notes that the black figure holds the rope in an ''unsailorlike'' fashion, between the wrong fingers. The ''disjunction between the prominent compositional location and passive narrative role of this figure,'' he has written, ''is a telling feature of the racism of both patron and painter. The black crew member prefigures the classic token black, a metaphorical allusion to some abstract principle of humanity, but this black is unable to function in the real world dominated by whites.''
 
An 'Offensive' Interpretation
On the other hand, Sidney Kaplan, a self-styled neo-Marxist, dismisses Mr. Boieme's reading as ''offensive.'' He adds: ''I look at the rope in the black man's hand as an umbilical cord between him and Watson. Copley paints an exquisite painting of a black man, who lowers the lifeline. Whatever his reasons, he gives him an honorific position, the dominant one in the painting.''
Mr. McElroy - taking cues from Hugh Honour and Albert Boime - decodes the work this way: its complex subtext, he suggests, includes a strong element of remorse on Watson's part for his role in the slave trade - hence the nobly portrayed black man, who is seen as his ''Doppelganger.'' At the same time, he writes in the catalogue, the painting is a ''conservative polemic'' in that the presence of Wastons's body ''also plays on images of dismemberment that were routinely employed by artists to warn of the loss of power that would result from impending revolt of colonial territories from the British Empire.''
''Still,'' he says, ''as important as it is to see the allegory, it's also one of the earliest images in which an African American is viewed as pivotal to, and an equal participant in, a dramatic event.''
A case of an artist's softening his experience of black male authority is William Sidney Mount's 1845 work, ''Eel-Spearing at Setauket,'' depicting a young white boy and a black woman eel-fishing in a Long Island pond. It was based on a childhood memory of the artist's, Mr. McElroy says. But the person who taught Mount eel-fishing, he points out, was in reality a black man named Hector. Satifying his own ''proscriptions against images of assertive African American men,'' the curator writes, Mount ''deemed an image of a black man teaching a white youth too great a risk in a commissioned painting.''
 
High Marks For Homer
Like other scholars in the field, Mr. McElroy gives good grades to Winstow Homer and Thomas Eakins for their portrayals of blacks, saying that their mature works ''represent a high-water mark in 19th-century artistic expression of African-American identity, offering a alternative to the penchant of typing that, with a precious few exceptions, marked the development of American art.'' Even though Homer's ''Watermelon Boys'' of 1876, depicting three youths - two black, one white - eating watermelons in a field, would seem to perpetuate a common stereotype first popularized in minstrel shows of the 1850's, Mr. McElroy finds that Homer's use of the image ''predates the explicitly derogatory linking of the watermelon with blacks that developed in the 1880's after the collapse of Reconstruction.''
Eakins's outlook was broader than the ''simplistic nostalgia of the implicit racism that dominated most post-Reconstruction images of blacks,'' Mr. McElroy notes. But in his painting ''Will Schuster and Blackman Going Shooting,'' 1876, in which a black guide poles a canoe while a white hunter takes aim, ''the whtie man in named while the black man is identified only in terms of race'' Hence Eakins's ''unspoken subtext,'' according to Mr McElroy, is to stress the difference between whties and blacks ''in terms of an interdependent but clearly hierarchical economic relationship.
 
Esthetics Versus Politics
But - perhaps mindful of some critics who accuse the ''new'' art historians of scanting esthetics for sociology - Mr. McElroy emphasized that the show was an esthetic experience. ''One of the high points in putting it together was looking at the objects, because I enjoy their beauty and spiritual quality,'' he said. Although last week Professor Kaplan had not yet seen the catalogue for the show, he endorsed the idea of it. ''Such shows as these, if they gather good material, can be a revelation of what has hitherto been more or less invisible,'' he asid. ''In the past, if one tried to visualize what black people were like up to the Civil War, there was a blur. Now all of a sudden we are finding that white artists have given us some splendid pictures, artists like Copley and Eakins and Homer and Eastman Johnson, and so many of them seem to be valid pictures without prejudice.
''The leading artists of the time do splendid and valid work, as if genius were able to get beyond stereotypicality and preserve for us the flesh and marrow and intellect of black people. It raises a very interesting question for art history, that some of our best artists were doing the greatest works on the victims of brutal slavery and oppression, even as they were portrayed in the popular press in a stereotypical way.''
The initial impetus for the show, Ms. Livingson said, began with the District of Columbia Commission on the Arts and Humanities, whose chairman at the time, Peggy Cooper-Cafritz, was interested in developing projects that involved the ''minority presence'' in the arts. ''With this in mind, I tried to find a young black art historian to do a good show,'' Ms. Livingston said. In 1985, she heard about Mr. McElroy. He proposed what turned out to be the present show - a show, Ms. Livingston says, that would not have been possible without the nurturing of the District of Columbia Commssion on the Arts and Humanities and Rockefeller Foundation.
Assessing the impact of the show, Ms. Livingston said: ''I think the black community is ready and willing to face the depredations to its own self-image in American history, depredations that seem more painful in visual material than in much of the literature. Virtually every one of the stereotypes seen here has some vestige of vivid reality in 1990.''

GRAPHIC: Augustus Saint-Gaudens's head of a Civil War soldier, part of the forthcoming exhibition ''Facing History'' at the Corcoran Gallery in Washington; William Sidney Mount's ''Bone Player''; Reginald Marsh's ''Tuesday Night at the Savoy Ballroom'' (pg. 1); Guy C. McElroy, the art historian who organized ''Facing History'' at the Corcoran (Ira Wexler); John Singleton Copley's 1778 ''Watson and the Shark''; Jane Livingston, departing curator of the Corcoran (NYT/Michael Geissinger) (pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ARTISTS FILM CORP (91%); AMERICAN ARTISTS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORCORAN GALLERY OF ART (WASHINGTON, DC)

SUBJECT: ART; ART SHOWS; BLACKS (IN US) CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ART HISTORY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); PAINTING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (74%); POLITICS (74%); INTERVIEWS (70%); 

PERSON: GLUECK, GRACE; MCELROY, GUY C JOHN SINGLETON (55%); 



172 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 10, Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Health Costs Worry Hospitals and Business

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

DATELINE: TARRYTOWN

 BODY:
DESPITE the rising cost of employee health insurance that businesses in the county have had to pay in recent years, hospitals are reporting increasing financial losses and warning that quality health care is being jeopardized.
Arthur E. Weintraub, president of the Northern Metropolitan Hospital Association, is concerned that these seemingly contradictory situations are leading to public confusion. His group represents the voluntary and public hospitals in the seven Hudson Valley counties.
''We're in trouble,'' Mr. Weintraub said. ''Hospitals in New York State are suffering from 10 years of underfunding. In 1988, which was the worst year in history, hospitals in our seven-county region posted operating losses of $560.5 million. The losses for 1989 haven't been completely tabulated yet, but a loss is expected to be close to 1988 figures.'' 
He said that Standard and Poor's recently rated the finances of the state's hospitals as the worst in the nation. ''Yet the increase in hospital costs in New York State are lower than those of the nation as a whole, since New York hospitals have had stringent cost-containment systems in place for years and years,'' Mr. Weintraub said. ''And our occupancy rates are the highest in the nation.''
Businesses consider health care costs a pressing problem, and it was the subject a recent conference in Tarrytown organized by the Northern Metropolitan Hospital Association. Two hundred and fifty business leaders, hospital officials and trustees attended.
One speaker, Daniel B. Walsh, president of the Business Council of New York State, said employers now pay 64.3 percent of health care costs, which he said ''are rising at twice the rate of inflation.''
''They are ranked by the National Association of Manufacturers as the No. 1 problem of business today,'' he said.
The key issue at the conference was whether health care costs could be controlled without universal health care coverage.
D. Wayne Calloway, chief executive of Pepsico in Purchase, told the conference that cost-containment measures developed jointly by hospitals and business work better than those devised by government. He suggested that community hospitals might hold down costs by specializing in a particular medical service rather than duplicate services already offered by other nearby hospitals.
 
Universal Insurance Urged
But Dr. Daniel Beauchamp, Deputy Commissioner of the New York State Department of Health, disagreed with the notion that government should not step in to control medical costs.
''Anyone who believes that an alliance of the business community with the hospital community is a good idea and a way to come up with a plan to control health care costs, doesn't know about health care and doesn't grasp the problem,'' he told the conference.
''The biggest friend business has to control health care costs is government,'' he said. ''The evidence is clear that controlling costs in the health care field can only be done by intelligent use of government.''
At the present time, health costs are 13 percent of the payroll and rising, he said.
''Where will they be five years from now?'' he said. ''It's a problem of control. You must first see that everyone has coverage. We can't control costs unless everyone is in the system, just as they are in every other country. Universal care is good business.''
Dr. Beauchamp said health care coverage in New York State is reaching crisis proportions: More than 2.5 million New Yorkers are without any health care coverage. One solution, he said, would be the universal health insurance proposed by his department that would guarantee a minimum level of care to all New Yorkers.
''Everyone would have a single card,'' he said. ''Claims would be processed electronically.''
Under the proposal, hospitals and other health care providers would be paid solely through the universal health care system.
''The mechanism would shorten paperwork and payment headaches,'' Dr. Beauchamp said. ''It would also allow the government to speak with one voice. Right now we have 20 or 30 different kinds of requirements for information coming from hospitals and insurance companies.''
According to the Department of Health Statistics, New Yorkers spend more than $35 billion in health care every year.
''Employers, who pay for much of the health care coverage, pay for health care twice,'' Dr. Beauchamp said. ''Once for their own employees and again as costs of treating uninsured persons are factored into reimbursement rates.''
''The state also spends hundreds of millions of dollars for the uninsured,'' he said. Under his department's proposal, he said, that money would be put toward financing the system. The savings from reductions in paperwork would also help pay for it, he added.
''It would make both employers and employees more secure,'' he told the conference audience. ''Your costs will be controlled, and you won't have to go employees for more money for health care policies every year.''
 
Strike Frightens Business
Another speaker, S. J. Schulman, president of the Westchester County Association, said the long strike by telephone workers against the Nynex Corporation this year, in which one of the major issues was health care benefits, scared many businesses. He said the strike illustrated the wide impact a company's health care policies can have on its business.
Health costs, Mr. Schulman said, ''have escalated to a point where they are killing companies.'' He said he endorsed a proposal that a coalition of business leaders and health care officials be formed to examine ways to control medical costs.
Daniel Sisto, president of the Hospital Association of New York State, who was also at the conference, said business leaders are paying more attention to health care costs than they did five years ago.
''As health care costs continue to consume increasingly large portions of the GNP,'' he said, ''business wants to work with us. What role do hospitals play? Are we a business or a social agency? Hospitals and business are not adversaries. We have a common concern; AIDS for example. AIDS will cost $1 billion more a year until 1993. It's driving the system into bankruptcy. You have to stabilize the system, and that requires business leadersand union leaders working with us.''
Mr. Weintraub, of the Northern Metropolitan Hospital Association, said sustained losses by a local hospital can affect the community it serves.
 
When Local Hospitals Suffer
''Initially the hard-pressed hospitals will terminate any plans for capital projects and defer new programs and services,'' he said. ''Then personnel are laid off and service is reduced. Finally, the facility begins to deteriorate because of maintenance cuts, and eventually major services are closed and occupancy drops, and the hospital is either taken over by regulators and an expensive bailout or closed entirely.''
He said he hopes that in the next session of the State Legislature a new reimbursement schedule - one that in his view would be more equitable - will be approved for the hospitals in the state.
''We hope the Legislature will deal squarely with the issue,'' he said. ''A strong case has been made for a new system. If the state doesn't make an added investment in its hospitals now, eventually all of us will have to pay for them.''

GRAPHIC: Photos; Sue Segnit, a nurse in the cardiac-care unit of the White Plains Hospital Medical Center and John Schandler, the hospital president, with Arthur E. Weintraub of the Northern Metropolitan Hospital Association (NYT/Jim Estrin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHERN METROPOLITAN HOSPITAL ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; FINANCES HOSPITALS (93%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); RANKINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); INFLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY; WEINTRAUB, ARTHUR E MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



173 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 2, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: THE VIEW FROM: CLINTON;
A Bid to Put a Drug House To Good Use

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
A LARGE wooded and secluded piece of property in the shoreline town of Clinton where its former owner sold drugs could end up as a new elementary school or even a police station.
The town has made an offer and is negotiating to buy the 47-acre parcel from the Federal Government, which seized the property, on Route 81 north of Main Street. In November, the owner, John Mann, pleaded guilty to charges of cocaine and marijuana possession and possession of cocaine with the intention of selling it.
Clinton's first offer for the property was turned down, but the town has submitted a second one and is negotiating with the United States Marshal's office, which is responsible for the disposition of the property, the First Selectman, Virginia Zawoy, said.
If the town buys the property, it most likely will use it to build a new elementary school or a new police station, she said. 
 
Looking for Land
Ms. Zawoy said that there are few large parcels of land left in town, so when Mr. Mann's property was seized, the town moved quickly to negotiate to buy it. ''They've run out of room,'' Ms. Zawoy said.
''Even before this land became available, they were asking either for an addition or a new building and had hired an architect to look at their options. The town doesn't have much land, just an acre here and two acres there.''
Although the town has several expensive projects under way, including a $6.5 million renovation project at its high school and a planned $23 million sewer project, the Board of Selectmen authorized $5,400 of survey work at the Mann property and authorized Ms. Zawoy to enter into a contract for its purchase.
There seems to be no reluctance in this town of 13,500 people just east of New Haven to put a drug dealer's property to more productive use.
 
A Unique Situation
''The only things I've heard about the proposal have been positive,'' Ms. Zawoy said. ''We can use the land, and the history of the property doesn't seem to bother people, but it is a pretty unique situation.''
In Connecticut, over the last two years, more than $12 million in property has been seized under Federal forfeiture laws, United States Attorney Stanley A. Twardy said. In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, Connecticut ranked 14th out of 94 districts in terms of property seizures, just below Los Angeles, Detroit and Manhattan.
Michael A. Sexton, vice president of H. Pearce Company, the real estate agency handling the sale for the Federal Government, said the town's interest has somewhat dampened the market for the property.
Usually property along Route 81 would be a desirable spot for commercial development, with two-acre housing in the back, he said. Developers have expressed interest in the property, he said, but they have decided to see what the town does. ''Any potential developer that has to work with the town once they get it is sidestepping the property for now,'' Mr. Sexton said.
He said his recommendation to the Government wouldprobably be to negotiate a price with the town and see if it could raise the money before trying to sell it privately.
Ms. Zawoy said representatives of Mr. Twardy's office said that a few municipalities in California had purchased land seized in a drug case, but that it is rare.
 
Appraisal Disputed
While a foreclosure appraisal valued the property at $750,000, Ms. Zawoy said that a more recent appraisal, which she believes reflects the market conditions, put the value of the property at $495,000, but that the difference between the estimates is the reason it has been difficult to settle on a price.
In addition, she said, the extremely cold weather in late December caused the pipes in the vacant house to burst, further reducing the value of the property.
Sgt. Richard R. Buskey of the Clinton police said the state police received information that Mr. Mann, 43 years old, was selling drugs at the house and obtained a search warrant. ''The house had a pretty sophisticated security system in place,'' Sergeant Buskey said. Besides an electronically controlled gate with a telephone at the entrance to the property, there were ultraviolet beams to detect movement around the house, video cameras and guard dogs, he said.
The police arrested Mr. Mann and took 19 weapons from the house, including an Uzi submachine gun, as well as eight ounces of cocaine, Mr. Buskey said. A short time later, the police received information that Mr. Mann was selling drugs again. The police found the marijuana during a search of the house and arrested Mr. Mann. And the United States Attorney's office began forfeiture proceedings.
Mr. Twardy said though the amount of drugs seized was not large in comparison with other cocaine and marijuana raids, it was sufficient to press for the forfeiture proceedings. ''The courts have routinely said for a million-dollar house, you don't have to have a million dollars of drugs to make it forfeitable,'' he said. ''All you have to show is that it was bought with the proceeds from drug sales or it was used for drug transactions.''
Congress also recently passed a law allowing civil penalties of up to $250,000 for possession of ''user amounts'' of drugs, Mr. Twardy said. ''It's relying on an old theory of economics that tells us how to reduce demand,'' Mr. Twardy said. ''We keep increasing the risks, in terms of possible fines, and reducing the benefits, in terms of seizing assets.''
Mr. Buskey said: ''Drugs are not a serious problem in Clinton, but they are a problem. It's here just like in any other community.''
Earlier this month the police raided what they called a crack cocaine factory in a motel in Clinton, he said.
Mr. Mann's property includes a post-war house, a heart-shaped swimming pool and a garage. The property is situated on a curve in the road, so the entrance is not easily noticed. The house is around a corner at the end of a long driveway flanked by evergreens, so it cannot be seen from the road. The estate is in an area of small cape-style houses on quarter-acre lots.
The rest of the property is mainly gently rolling hills, covered with oaks and laurel, with occasional outcroppings of ledge. At the driveway, rusted hinges on four-foot fieldstone pillars are all that remain of the security gate. Signs warn against trespassing.
Though the property has 1,100 feet of road frontage and 47 acres, it is unlikely it could be used for both a new school and a larger police station, Ms. Zawoy said, because there is considerable ledge, and it abuts the Indian River. Also, part of the land is over an aquifer and must be protected.
Ms. Zawoy said she is not sure when the police station, a two-story brick building on Main Street, was built but she believes it was soon after the Town Hall was completed in 1938.
The town's recent population growth has also meant more students in its high school and three elementary schools. Projected enrollments show the need for a new elementary school that could serve 300 to 500 students, she said, and the Route 81 site would be a suitable location for a new school.
If the land is acquired, she said, unused portions could be used for nature trails and other recreational purposes. The house and garage would probably be demolished, she said, adding: ''I don't know what will happen with the heart-shaped pool. Although if it's used as a school, I'm sure the kids would like to see it stay.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of First Selectman Virginia Zawoy of Clinton; view of the 7-acre parcel of land seized after its owner was arrested (NYT/Gale Zucker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: H PEARCE CO (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CLINTON (CONN)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; POLICE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ASSET FORFEITURE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); COCAINE (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); CAMPUS SECURITY (73%); CANNABIS (73%); MARSHALS (72%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (68%); BUILDING RENOVATION (65%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (63%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A; MANN, JOHN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (86%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (86%); 



174 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Indians and Neighbors Are at Odds Over Waste Dump on Reservation

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOULEVARD, Calif., Jan. 4

 BODY:
This desolate patch of windswept high desert seems an odd place for two seemingly disparate national issues to intersect: Indian rights and the disposing of mountains of urban garbage.
But here on a scrub-covered ridge less than a mile from the Mexican border and a 68-mile drive from downtown San Diego, a small tribe of Indians has invited San Diego County to dump trash from its fast-growing cities on their postage-stamp-size reservation for the next 20 years.
For the 250 inhabitants of the reservation, the Campo Band of Mission Indians, the landfill means big money, an end to generations of poverty and dependence. To their ranch and farm neighbors, though, it is a potential source of contamination of the scarce ground water that sustains them, and they have mounted an emotional campaign against the Indians.paign against the Indians.
This is no garden variety not-in-my-backyard dispute over an unwanted dump. Under Federal law and court rulings, reservations are sovereign entities, subject to no local or state environmental rules. They are free to build dumps if the Bureau of Indian Affairs approves. The Campo Indians say that only they have the right to regulate the dump and insist that they intend to impose strict safety controls by their own specially created Campo Environmental Protection Agency. 
 
Profits in Others' Discards
The dispute finds an echo in much of the remote West, where increasingly Indian tribes see profit in accepting on their desolate lands what no one else wants. The Navajo, Hopi and many other tribes have been approached by leading waste-disposal companies seeking new sites to dispose of both conventional garbage and toxic wastes. The companies find both willing hosts and a way around the red tape and emotional local protests that usually The situation has produced an odd reversal of the range wars between Indians and white settlers of yesteryear. It is now the white neighbors who see themselves as trying to prevent the Indians from despoiling the land. ''We are going to keep the land from being destroyed by the Indians,'' said Arol Wulf, an ex-New Yorker who is a leader of Zendick Farm here, a commune near the Campo land.
The Indians see it differently. Ralph Goff, the elected Campo tribal chairman, said that more than half the tribe's adults are unemployed and that many others must commute as far as San Diego for work. ''We feel we'd like something better than that,'' he said.
He was cagy about how much money the landfill would bring. It would be ''substantial,'' he said, ''millions'' every year, which would be used for schools, housing and services.
''It is a sound project,'' Mr. Goff said. ''From preliminary indications, environmentally it can be done safely. That is our first concern. We are developing a solid-waste code equal to or better than California's. We also realize there is a waste problem all over the United States. We feel that if we can help alleviate some of that problem we are doing something for our country.''
 
Recycling Plant Planned
The dump, 250 feet deep, would occupy 660 acres on the southeast corner of the 15,480-acre reservation on a ridge now covered with manzanita and brush. There would also be an adjacent recycling plant. The tribe has been negotiating with Ogden Martin Services Inc. of Fairfield, N.J., to construct the dump. The company has engaged the Bureau of Indian Affairs to perform the environmental impact statement, though that process was suspended recently because of difficulties in negotiations between the tribe and the company.
The site is one of several under consideration by San Diego County, which expects its four main garbage dumps to be filled within 10 years. The Campo reservation has an advantage of a rail line to San Diego to bring from 1,500 to 3,000 tons of garbage a day.
The plan has stirred outrage in Boulevard, population 2,300, and nearby towns, where a hardy collection of ranchers and farmers eke out a modest living away from urban pressure, noise and dirt, 40 miles from the nearest supermarket. A group, Backcountry Against the Dump, has been formed.
Though the Campo dump would not accept toxic waste, opponents fear that it would indeed get some, from household solvents and drain cleaners and refuse from small industry. Ms. Wulf said that a ''soup of household toxics'' would accumulate at the bottom and that if the plastic liner ever ruptured, the porous granite ground would conduct it into the region's only water source.
 
'Going to Ruin Everything'
The dump site is next to Edward and Donna Tisdale's Morning Star Ranch. The couple has spent 26 years clearing the 120-acre ranch by hand, drilling wells and building neat white fences, fighting years of drought. ''It's going to ruin everything we've worked for,'' Mrs. Tisdale said. ''Anybody who has lived out here has seen the forces of nature at work.''
Lawyers agree there is little that can stop the Indians. Kevin Gover of the Albuquerque, N.M., law firm of Gover, Stetson, Williams & West, which is representing the Campo Indians, said the United States Supreme Court has held that states have no jurisdiction on tribal lands.
Moreover, he said, the Federal Environmental Protection Agency does not govern ordinary garbage dumps, so it would be up to the Indians to set their own rules. Mr. Gover said the Campo tribe was using California standards as its model.
''Even though we do not have to, we are talking to the state and county to help monitor it,'' he said. ''But we will not compromise on the question of sovereignty.''
Kathleen A. Lehtola, principal solid-waste program manager for the county, said that as a practical matter the Indians would have to comply with state rules. The B.I.A. has taken the same stance before it grants its approval. ''We told them as part of the contract they must meet all requirements we would have to meet,'' she said.
 
Other Options Are Cited
None of this has mollified the opposition, which argues that the Indians are taking the easy way out at the expense of their neighbors. Opponents also maintain that the tribe could develop its land in less damaging ways, by building, for example, a truck stop on reservation land off Interstate 8, a retirement home or a feed lot.
Mr. Goff, the tribal chairman, said the Indians have examined and rejected such alternatives. The land, he said, is almost useless. ''Look at it,'' he said, pointing out his office window at the rocks and dry scrub. ''What are you going to put in that dirt?''
He suggested that the opposition was rooted in bigotry. ''The issue is simple. They do not want a landfill regardless if it is safe or not. The only reason is they are saying Indians are not able to do it.''
The suggestion that the land is worthless angers neighbors who have worked it for years. ''We raise cattle; we farm, raise vegetables,'' Mr. Tisdale, the rancher, said. ''The Indians could do the same. What can you do with 15,000 acres of the best land in the county? That upsets a lot of people.''
The Indians say that if all goes well they will start construction after about a year. Opponents say they will do whatever they must to stop it.
''It's just not going to happen,'' Mr. Tisdale said. ''We cannot let it happen.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph Goff, the elected tribal chairman, said the landfill would bring in millions of dollars a year (NYT/Robert Burroughs); map of California showing location of Campo Indian Reservation (NYT) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (55%); BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; BOULEVARD (CALIF); CAMPO BAND OF MISSION INDIANS; SAN DIEGO COUNTY (CALIF)

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; INDIANS, AMERICAN; LANDFILL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; WATER POLLUTION LANDFILLS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (88%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (77%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (66%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (60%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT



175 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: REDUCED TAX RATE ON CAPITAL GAINS WIDELY EXPECTED

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7

 BODY:
A lower capital gains tax rate, one of President Bush's top legislative priorities, will almost certainly be enacted this year, Administration officials and Congressional leaders say.
The Democratic leaders who fought the capital gains proposals in the fall more or less concede that they do not have the votes to block them again.
Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the Democratic leader who successfully led the fight against the legislation, said his goal now is to see that whatever capital gains measure is passed encourages investment in small business ventures and does not worsen the budget deficit.
 
Decisions on Details
What is still up in the air, the politicians say, is what the rate will be and how it will be applied. 
Will the new rate be a constant one or vary according to how long an asset is held?
Will the lower rate be allowed on profits from the sale of all kinds of investments or will some be excluded?
Will it be applied only to newly purchased assets or will investments already owned be eligible for a lower tax rate?
Those questions will be at the top of the slate when Congress reconvenes late this month to receive President Bush's budget, which will include his capital gains proposal, and to hear his State of the Union address.
 
Early Hearings Planned
The House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee, the Congressional panels that handle tax measures, are planning hearings early in the new session.
The legislation could move quickly, the leaders say, or it could take all year, depending on how some important political questions are resolved.
Among those questions are what Congressional Democrats will seek in return for their votes for a capital gains cut and whether the bill will serve as a vehicle for those pleading for other tax breaks.
Capital gains are the profits earned from the sale of investments like stocks, bonds and real estate.
Until 1987, gains on assets held more than six months were taxed at a lower rate than other income, like wages, interest and dividends. In 1986, the top capital gains rate was 20 percent; the top rate on other income was 50 percent. The theory was that the lower rate encouraged investments, helped the economy and reduced the effect of inflation on long-term investments.
In the name of equity, the Tax Reform Act of 1986, the most sweeping overhaul of the tax code since World War II, applied the same tax rate to capital gains as to other income.
The law also cut the income tax rate of the wealthiest taxpayers almost in half, to 28 percent. The prevailing argument was that the overall rate reduction more than made up for the elimination of a capital gains differential.
By far most capital gains are earned by the well-to-do. The Joint Congressional Committee on Taxation has estimated that 60 percent of the benefits from a lower rate will go to the two-tenths of 1 percent of taxpayers with incomes over $200,000 and that 80 percent will go to the 1 percent with incomes over $100,000.
 
Republican Dogma
A lower capital gains rate has long been a part of Republican dogma, and President Bush made it a central element of his 1988 election campaign. On taking office last year, he proposed a top capital gains rate of 15 percent. The proposal was limited to profits from the sale of stocks and bonds, excluding those from real estate, timber and other investments, and limited the full benefit to those who held assets for at least three years. The proposal would exclude collectibles, like antiques, and depreciable assets from the favorable treatment.
In the House of Representatives, many Democrats broke ranks and provided a large majority for a measure that would have cut the rate to 19.6 percent, 70 percent of the 28 percent rate, through 1991, and would have applied the break to almost all investments.
Much of the political pressure behind the legislation came from timber and real estate interests.
When the bill reached the Senate late in the session, Democratic leaders filibustered and made the issue a matter of party loyalty. Although supporters of a capital gains cut had 51 votes, a bare majority, 60 votes are needed to overcome a filibuster and the measure died.
 
Lacking the Votes
It would be difficult to sustain such a filibuster for an entire year. Furthermore, the leaders say the new measure is not likely to make the cut merely temporary.
''It's a popular thing,'' Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, the Ways and Means Committee chairman, said of a capital gains cut. ''I'm not going to be out there alone again.''
Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas, chairman of the Finance Committee, said he had ''no problem with capital gains in theory'' but was determined to produce a measure that did not lose revenue in the long run.
''I'm deeply interested in putting together a package on savings incentives, and part of that is obviously capital gains,'' Mr. Bentsen continued. Part of the package, he said, should be an expansion of partly tax-deductible individual retirement accounts. Finding the money for the two will be a problem, he acknowledged.
Mr. Rostenkowski suggested, as he has for years, that money be raised by increasing the Federal gasoline tax.
But Mr. Bentsen said he would oppose that. ''A gas tax is fine if you're from an urban Congressional district, but not if you're from a state with substantial rural areas such as Texas,'' he said.
Instead, Mr. Bentsen said, he hoped lawmakers could strike a deal with President Bush ''where we walk the plank together and take the political hits together.''
The President, however, has shown no inclination for raising taxes. The prospect of larger reductions in military spending than were anticipated a few months ago makes it even less likely that Mr. Bush will accept a tax increase to meet deficit targets, Administration officials said.
Expressing confidence that they would win this year, the officials said the capital gains proposal in the President's budget would be modified from the one last year. To widen political support, they said, Mr. Bush would propose extending the capital gains break to timber and real estate and would set the maximum rate somewhat above 15 percent but below 20 percent.
 
Narrower Proposals
Congressional tax experts are working on proposals narrower than the Administration's. They are considering, for example, excluding from the lower rate the profits from investments bought before the beginning of this year. They are also considering a sliding scale, so rates would fall the longer investments were held, and imposing a transaction tax to discourage rapid turnovers of investments. Those ideas would reduce the long-term cost of a lower capital gains tax.
Experts agree that a lower capital gains tax would raise revenues a bit in the first year as taxpayers rushed to take advantage of the new rate.
The Administration maintains that the cost will not be high in the following years, but most Congressional analysts and many outside economists project an eventual cost of many billions of dollars a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (78%); SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (66%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CAPITAL GAINS TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); TAX REFORM (75%); BONDS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (73%); 



176 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2251 words

HEADLINE: Cambodia Emerges - After the Vietnamese Occupation.;
Phnom Penh, Eye on West, Tries To Shed Image as Hanoi Puppet

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHNOM PENH, Cambodia

 BODY:
Since the announced withdrawal of Vietnamese occupation troops in September, the Government of Prime Minister Hun Sen has taken a number of steps to establish Cambodia as a nation reviving politically and economically, ready to change to get rid of its image as a puppet regime. The goal is to gain increased international recognition, especially in the West.
In perhaps the most important change, the Government, under attack by United States-backed rebels, has tried to broaden its base by including many people who served in the non-Communist Governments of Prince Norodom Sihanouk and Lon Nol in the 1960's and 1970's.
In addition, Phnom Penh is discarding socialist dogma in favor of free-market economic principles, now on display at hundreds of privately owned shops throughout the capital.
 
U.S. Supports Guerrillas
Washington has no diplomatic relations with the Government here, which it describes as a ''puppet regime'' installed by Vietnamese Army invaders in January 1979. The United States supports a guerrilla coalition - composed of the Khmer Rouge, which ruled the country from 1975 to 1978, and two non-Communist factions - that is trying to unseat Mr. Hun Sen. 
Kung Sam Ol, an alumnus of the University of Georgia who now serves as a Deputy Prime Minister of Cambodia, said the characterization of the Government as a puppet regime was ''out of date.''
Cambodian officials say Vietnam has withdrawn all its troops.
While expressing gratitude to Hanoi for having rescued them from the Khmer Rouge, Cambodians say the historic animosity between the two peoples would make it impossible for the Vietnamese to establish a permanent presence here.
Cambodian officials repeatedly affirmed their intention to hold national elections in 1990 or early 1991, and they said they would welcome observers from the United States and other countries.
Chhang Song, a naturalized American citizen who recently concluded a visit here, has emerged as a pivotal figure in Cambodian politics and as a crucial link to the West for a nation ostracized by most Western governments.
He urged the Phnom Penh Government to hold elections monitored by Western observers who could assess their fairness. In discussions with Cambodian officials, he also encouraged the formation of an opposition party.
Mr. Chhang Song, who served as Cambodia's Information Minister from 1973 to 1975, in the American-backed government of Lon Nol, said the current Government was receptive to his suggestions.
Dozens of interviews with Cambodian officials, people on the street, shopkeepers, students, prisoners of war and foreign diplomats here produced these findings:
* The Government is accepted as legitimate in most of Cambodia. There is no sign that it will collapse without the support of Vietnamese troops, as some American officials had predicted. Foreign investors and foreign governments in many Western countries express a growing desire to do business with Cambodia. Singapore and Thailand are already actively trading with Cambodia, and Australians have shown interest in developing economic ties.
* Except in three provinces along the Thai border, where there has been fierce fighting, security is not a major problem. Cambodians and foreign visitors can move about freely and talk with anyone they want. The guerrillas say they have made substantial gains in hit-and-run operations over the last three months. Cambodian military officials express little concern about the two non-Communist guerrilla armies supported by the United States - the Khmer People's National Liberation Front led by former Prime Minister Son Sann and a group loyal to Prince Sihanouk - but warn that those armies provide cover for the Communist Khmer Rouge to send infiltrators deep into Cambodia.
* Growing numbers of people who served in the non-Communist Governments of Prince Sihanouk and Mr. Lon Nol, as well as people who went to school in those years, now hold positions of power and influence in Cambodia. These men and women, many of whom were trained in Europe or the United States, suffer no apparent discrimination because of their background. Mr. Hun Sen estimates that people who served under Prince Sihanouk and Mr. Lon Nol now account for more than half of his Cabinet.
* The Government is rapidly reducing state control of the economy and is permitting private ownership of land and other property. It initially tolerated the development of private enterprise and open markets and now encourages them on the ground that they are more efficient than state-owned industries, which still produce textiles and steel, for example. Cambodian officials and Europeans who work for humanitarian organizations here estimate that 30 percent of the economy is controlled by the Government, while 70 percent is privately held.
* Local editors and journalists say Cambodian newspapers now openly criticize the Government, publishing evidence of official corruption, nepotism, police brutality and other abuses. In the last year, members of the National Assembly have also become more independent and assertive in criticizing the Government.
 
U.S. Policy
Calls for Change Across Spectrum
In the United States Congress, liberal Democrats like Senator Alan Cranston of California and Representative Chester G. Atkins of Massachusetts have denounced the Bush Administration for supporting Prince Sihanouk and his demand that the Khmer Rouge have a role in an interim coalition government. Now some American conservatives are also calling for a change in policy.
Michael J. Horowitz, a conservative Republican who served in the Reagan Administration and visited Cambodia with Mr. Chhang Song, said: ''The reality I see here is profoundly different from the conventional wisdom described to me in Washington by American officials. I see strong support for private property, open markets and internationally supervised elections.''
Mr. Horowitz said American policy toward Cambodia, already subject to criticism by liberals, needed to be scrutinized by American conservatives, particularly in the light of ''its deference to the demands of China,'' the chief supporter of the Khmer Rouge.
If the Phnom Penh Government continues to move toward internationally supervised elections, he said, ''I cannot see any basis for U.S. isolation of Cambodia and for U.S. support of China and Prince Sihanouk, who has always followed China's line.''
For more than a decade, some American officials have viewed Cambodia as a battleground for a proxy war between Moscow and Beijing in which China deserved American support.
The charge d'affaires at the Indian Embassy here, Rinzing Wangdi, said: ''There is a widespread perception that, as a result of the Vietnam syndrome, you in the United States have allowed China to be the steering wheel of American policy in this region.''
In early 1989, the State Department said there were ''widespread abuses of human rights in Cambodia'' stemming from its occupation by Vietnamese troops and from an indigenous Communist ''civil-military control apparatus.''
There is disagreement among Western human rights groups about Phnom Penh's record, and the Government says it is trying to make arrangements for human-rights observers to inspect prisons and assess the situation.
Chea Sim, an influential official who serves as chairman of the National Assembly and chairman of the United Front for the Construction and Defense of Cambodia, said he was concerned about reports of human-rights abuses in Cambodia and acknowledged that some had occurred. In an interview, he said such violations did not represent ''the policy of the regime.''
''We are taking stringent measures to correct the abuses,'' he declared, saying the Government was training soldiers in the proper treatment of prisoners and clarifying the penalties for violations.
 
Pol Pot's Legacy
'We Cannot Forget' The Crimes
Eleven years after Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge were removed from power, their legacy pervades all aspects of politics and family life in Cambodia.
Nearly everyone has a personal story of suffering and loss, of parents, children or siblings killed by the Khmer Rouge, who presided over a brutal restructuring of society in which more than a million people died from April 1975 to January 1979.
The Khmer Rouge is the strongest of the three guerrilla factions. Western diplomats often discuss its participation in a coalition government as a theoretical possibility. But most Cambodians do not even entertain the idea.
The national resolve is summarized in an inscription at Choeung Ek, a village on the outskirts of Phnom Penh, where the Khmer Rouge ran an extermination camp.
''The people of Cambodia always inscribe themselves with this suffering and wrath against the genocidal and criminal clique of Pol Pot and Ieng Sary,'' says a sign at a pagoda filled with hundreds of skulls. ''We cannot forget it. We are absolutely determined not to let this genocidal regime reoccur in Kampuchea.''
Phnom Penh is still an isolated third world capital with few telephones and inadequate electric power. It is under a 9 P.M. curfew, designed to prevent infiltration by guerrillas.
But the city, which was reduced to a ghost town by the Khmer Rouge, shows new signs of vitality.
In the last year, several movie theaters have opened. Seventy-five private companies now produce and sell videos. The Government has just abolished the official exchange rate, allowing the private market to decide the proper number of riels to the dollar.
In addition, the Government has lifted rules that required foreigners to live in a few designated apartment buildings, and it has eliminated restrictions on contacts between Cambodians and citizens of other countries.
In the National Assembly, legislators have accused Government officials of nepotism, graft and corruption.
Kung Sam Ol said the Government was worried about such charges and was trying to weed out corrupt officials.
 
Signs of Change
A Looser Hand On the Economy
Dozens of posters have sprouted up in Phnom Penh offering instruction in the English language, which is more popular than French among students in this former French colony.
''In the near future, we will have English courses on television,'' Mr. Hun Sen said.
Cambodian officials boast that they had ''tropical perestroika'' before the Soviet Union began to restructure its economy. ''If we had wanted to prevent a free-market economy, it would have been very easy for us to do so,'' Mr. Hun Sen said in an interview. ''It is now the policy of the Government to encourage further opening of the market.''
Asked whether such an approach was consistent with Marxism, Nguon Nhel, the Communist Party chief for the city of Phnom Penh, said, ''If people enjoy prosperity, I don't think we are deviating from Marxism.''
Cambodian officials said there was much less official control of the economy now than in the Sihanouk era, when the Government controlled such industries as rubber, sugar, jute and glass, as well as foreign trade.
Cambodians say they are mystified by American policy toward their country.
''Nobody understands why there has been this vindictivess and punishment toward Cambodia since Pol Pot was deposed,'' said Long Visalo, a Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs.
On one hand, Washington says the Khmer Rouge must never return to power. On the other hand, Cambodian officials note, the United States supports the two non-Communist factions loosely aligned with the Khmer Rouge against Phnom Penh.
The nominal leader of the guerrilla coalition, Prince Sihanouk, has argued that the Khmer Rouge should have a role in any transition government, and the United States has acquiesced in his demand, saying it ''went along with his judgment.''
''Why does the United States support the Khmer Rouge in this way?'' asks Kung Sam Ol, the Deputy Prime Minister. ''It is because of your friendship with China.''
 
Charting the Future
Plan for Elections And an Old Culture
Representatives of the Cambodian Government and the three rebel factions plan to meet soon in Jakarta, Indonesia, to see if they can agree on a formula for elections and a political settlement.
Cambodian officials say they are determined to hold elections even if there is no agreement on such a formula.
Prince Sihanouk, often described as the father of Cambodia's independence and a symbol of national unity, has not indicated if he would return to his homeland to take part in elections.
The Prince, who was overthrown in 1970, is remembered with nostalgia by some older Cambodians. But they account for a dwindling proportion of the population.
People of all ages said they were dismayed by his continuing association with the Khmer Rouge.
Prince Sihanouk's cousin, Lyda Sisowath, who supports the current Government, said, ''The old generation is dying off, and to many young people, Sihanouk is only history.''
While trying to rebuild their country, Cambodian officials have made assiduous efforts to rediscover and revive their ancient culture, devastated by the Khmer Rouge.
No man has done more to salvage the arts than Chheng Phon, the Minister of Information and Culture. ''Ninety percent of the artists, dancers, and musicians were destroyed by Pol Pot,'' he said in an interview. ''Everything was uprooted. Now we must replant.''
He has tried to preserve the stylized classical dance even though it was closely associated with the royal court.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chhang Song, a naturalized Amercian citizen who just concluded a visit to Cambodia, has emerged as a pivotal figure in Cambodian politics and as a crucial link to the West for a nation ostracized by most Western governments. He is shown with Prime Minister Hun Sen. (NYT/Robert Pear); map of Cambodia showing location of Phnom Penh (NYT) (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: A special report.

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); VIETNAM (93%); VIET NAM (92%); THAILAND (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMBODIA; VIETNAM

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CAMBODIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ELECTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); GENOCIDE (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ARMIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); RETAILERS (69%); 

PERSON: HUN SEN (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); NORODOM SIHANOUK (PRINCE); PEAR, ROBERT HUN SEN (94%); NORODOM SIHANOUK (71%); LON NOL (57%); 



177 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9

 
A military link to the killing of Jesuits in El Salvador has been found, President Alfredo Cristiani announced. It was the first Government confirmation that the army was involved in the Nov. 16 slayings of the six priests, with their housekeeper and her daughter. Page A1

 
Jennifer Jean Casolo, the American arrested in El Salvador and released after 18 days in prison, acknowledged burying some personal belongings in her yard, but she denied knowing about any weapons. A3

 
A nationalist backlash in Bulgaria has arisen from the decision by the nation's new leadership to restore rights to ethnic Turks. The Government fears that protests may run out of control. A8 
 
 
The pastor who ignited the uprising in Rumania, Laszlo Tokes, remains under military guard in a remote village after what appears to have been an assassination attempt. A8

 
The last Rumanian political prisoner to be released as the dictatorship of Nicolae Ceausescu collapsed, Mircea Raceanu, said he felt vindicated but not vindictive about his time in prison. A8
 
Rallies in Bucharest criticize Rumania's new leaders
 A8

 
East Berlin opposition splinters A9

 
The Government in Cambodia has begun reducing state control of politics and the economy in order to win international recognitition and respect three months after the withdrawal of Vietnamese troops. A1

 
Khmer Rouge is reportedly attacking Battambang A7

 
Former President Chun Doo Hwan of South Korea gave ''distorted'' testimony, the U.S. Embassy said, rejecting his reference to an American role in the 1979 assassination of President Park Chung Hee. A2

 
A Tamil guerrilla army in Sri Lanka is now closer than ever to its goal of dominating the Tamil homeland in the northeastern region of the country after a decade of civil war. A3

 
The Israeli Army shot a Jordanian soldier who crossed into Israel south of the Sea of Galilee. The soldier's motive was unknown, but a series of clashes along the border have heightened tensions within Israel. A2

 
National A10-15, B6-8

 
A lower capital gains tax rate will almost certainly be enacted this year, say Administration officials and Congressional leaders, but what the new rate will be and how it will be applied is anything but certain. A1

 
H.U.D. has become overly cautious in approving low-income housing projects dependent on Federal tax credits in the wake of allegations about political favoritism in housing programs, some critics say. A10

 
Senator Dennis DeConcini is battling to explain his role in the Lincoln Savings and Loan case and his intervention on behalf of the institution's owner, Charles H. Keating Jr. A10

 
A landfill on an Indian reservation in California could mean the end of generations of poverty to the tribe of 250 people. But their neighbors oppose plans to allow a dump on the reservation. A1

 
Doctors who perform abortions are being heavily stigmatized. Berated by protesters and largely isolated from medical colleagues, fewer doctors want to enter the field. A1

 
Rumors about the slaying in Boston of Carol Stuart and the apparent suicide of her husband, Charles, who was the prime suspect in her killing, have tumbled out in profusion from the police and the media. The case has inflamed racial animosities. A12

 
A neighborhood and a wrongly identified suspect suffer
 A12

 
Cult leader seized in family's killing in Ohio
 A15

 
The soldiers who died in Panama came from different backgrounds but shared the same fate. They were drawn to the military by the excitement it offered and a rigid sense of patriotism. They have left behind grieving families and friends. B6

 
No plea bargain for Gen. Noriega is likely, said his lawyers. They were confident, they said, that their defense is strong because the Government prosecution's witnesses lack credibility. B7

 
Using military force to combat drugs or to police elections in other countries has not become the White House's new policy, said top aides to President Bush, seeking to smooth relations with Latin America after the Panama invasion. B8

 
Report of female captain's combat role is now questioned
 B8

 
Two pension funds have lobbied G.M. directors, urging them to consider a broad range of candidates to succeed chief executive Roger B. Smith. The unprecedented step reflects the pension funds' concern for the future of the auto maker. D1

 
Digital audio tape recorders will reach the market by summer
 D1

 
Shuttle ready to go, but weather may not be A11

 
Veterans ignoring free burial, agency says
 A15

 
Regional B1-5

 
Rulings by New York's highest court on civil liberties are being based increasingly on the State Constitution as the U.S. Supreme Court's decisions become more restrictive. A1

 
The successor to Robert Garcia, who resigned his House seat from the Bronx last week, is likely to be Jose Serrano, who some consider the most eloquent of New York's Hispanic politicians. B1

 
Exxon was criticized for its clean-up efforts on Pralls Island, a marshy bird sanctuary that was awash with heating oil last week after a rupture of a company pipeline in the Arthur Kill. B1

 
Preserving the Adirondack Park has engrossed George Davis, director of a New York State commission that was created last year by Gov. Mario Cuomo to recommend land purchases. B2
 
Several violent episodes at a club in Manhattan, including a recent shooting that left two people dead, have not deterred patrons. But some Union Square neighbors of the Underground want the club closed. B1

 
The lesson of Yusuf Hawkins's death is seldom a topic but always an influence in a new experimental course on racism at New Utrecht High School in Bensonhurst, not far from where he was shot dead last year. B1

 
A right not to learn about AIDS? The Plymouth Brethren, a small religious order on Long Island, is fighting to keep its children from attending AIDS prevention classes required by the state. B3

 
Neediest Cases B5

 
Business Digest D1
 
SportsMonday

 
Pressures on black college athletes at predominantly white schools are often magnified greater than the same pressures on white athletes. Black athletes are often revered as heroes on campuses where they do not fit in. A1

 
Baseball: Reds' Davis gets $9.3 million pact
 C3

 
Basketball: Homeless schoolboy builds on dreams
 C2

 
Knicks edge Clippers C3

 
College: N.C.A.A. convention opens
 C4

 
Football: Giants beaten by Rams C1

 
Costly penalty for Giants C1

 
Broncos edge Steelers C1

 
Hockey: Brett Hull lives up to his name C9

 
Arts/Entertainment

 
Japan's new art collectors C13

 
Theater: ''De Donde?'' C13

 
Music: Business of conducting C13

 
The Residents C14

 
A Shimmy-Disc showcase C14

 
Dance: ''Cortege Hongrois'' C14

 
Brenda Daniels choreography C14

 
Word and Image: Alfred Kazin's ''New York'' C18

 
Obituaries D11

 
Joe Robbie, owner of the Miami Dolphins football team
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A16

 
Defense: Against what?
 
The man who saved the subway
 
This year's cold
 
Counting on Congress
 
Letters A16

 
Tom Wicker: Bush's double vision A17

 
William Safire: The lethal fist A17

 
Gregory Flynn: Europe in 1990: Shadows of 1947 A17

 
T. J. Rodgers: Managing our way to decline
 A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ROMANIA (94%); EL SALVADOR (94%); ISRAEL (93%); INDIA (92%); GERMANY (79%); BULGARIA (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: PRESIDENT CHUN DOO HWAN (62%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); TAX LAW (85%); ASSASSINATION (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (64%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (64%); PUBLIC HOUSING (64%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (61%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (60%); LANDFILLS (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: ALFREDO CRISTIANI (74%); NICOLAE CEAUSESCU (56%); 



178 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who Saved the Subways

 BODY:
When David Gunn took over as president of the New York City Transit Authority six years ago, the subway system was a municipal embarrassment, a shabby symbol of a city in decline. As he leaves there is broad agreement that it has staged a remarkable recovery. That's a proud legacy. 
Mr. Gunn arrived in New York City two years after approval of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's five-year, $6 billion capital spending plan. Shortly after his arrival, a new bus, one of a fleet financed by the Federal mass-transit agency and made by a subsidiary of New York's Grumman Corporation, caught fire.
The public sensed steel in Mr. Gunn's decision, over vigorous Washington opposition, to stop using any such Grumman buses. He would run the shambling, economically underfed New York systems his way: safety first.
Besides leadership, he brought a contagious enthusiasm, fascination with transit intricacies, and the shrewd ability to focus simultaneously on a whole problem and its details. Even while rationalizing the awkward command structure of the T.A., Mr. Gunn needed to put new equipment to work and revamp maintenance systems. He knew that it would take a long time to create visible progress while new equipment came to one line at a time. So to demonstrate his determination in the meantime, he took on what many had written off as a lost cause: subway graffiti. Mr. Gunn pioneered the use of solvents to clean cars, protected cars in storage yards, and ordered daily removal of graffiti in order to deny the destructive ''artists'' their exposure. Before long he won a clear-cut victory and strong public support.
He leaves, for personal reasons, two years after the approval of a second $6 billion capital plan. He is quick to agree that the transit system remains imperfect. It remains plagued by fare collection delays, turnstile jumping and encamped armies of the homeless. And the equipment improvements that have rescued major lines lag on those less traveled. The public continues to resist necessary route changes and fare increases.
Yet there is no denying the basic achievement: David Gunn gave New Yorkers a better transit system - and hope that skill, money and public support can solve daunting problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (83%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (83%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (NYCTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; EDITORIALS; SUBWAYS; BUSES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); VANDALISM (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); APPROVALS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); 

PERSON: GUNN, DAVID L CHRISTIE HEFNER (90%); 



179 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Mustn't Stop Insisting on Trade Fairness;
Bad Press for Japan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your report that Japanese real estate deals in New York City are breeding jokes and anger (news article, Dec. 18) makes me once again amazed and dismayed at the paranoia Americans have about the Japanese presence in this country and how the press continues to single them out and feed upon this paranoia.
Why is it that when a Canadian company such as the Campeau Corporation buys a well-known ''trophy,'' such as Bloomingdale's, along with the chain that owns Abraham & Straus and Jordan Marsh, and then proceeds to run them so far into the ground that they may have to go bankrupt and put thousands of Americans out of work, no one says a word.
Nor did anyone say a word when an Australian company, L. J. Hooker, bought the chain that owns Bonwit Teller and B. Altman, and also ran them into the ground. 
However, when the press got wind that perhaps some Japanese companies might be interested in purchasing Bloomingdale's, thus saving those thousands of American jobs, the headlines once again were that the Japanese were buying up America and our national treasures. Buried deep within that report, it was mentioned that the chairman of Bloomingdale's, Marvin Traub, actually went to Japan in search of investors.
How many of our average citizens know that before Mitsubishi bought its interest in Rockefeller Group that the Rockefellers offered several American companies the opportunity to buy, but all turned it down. It was then that the Rockefellers pursued Mitsubishi, not the other way around.
Many foreign companies in New York own far more real estate than Japanese companies do. Olympia & York, a Canadian company, is considered one of the largest owners of New York property, including the World Financial Center. London & Leeds and HRO, both English companies, own numerous buildings in New York. I could cite German, French, Spanish and Taiwanese ownership not only of American real estate, but of American businesses as well.
I think it is time for everyone to hear the other side of the Japanese real estate story, a side that hardly gets any attention. Yet the sheer number of the transactions involved dwarfs the dollar value of all the highly publicized acquisitions.
That other side is the Japanese as tenants. Almost 2,000 Japanese companies occupy office and warehouse space in the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area alone, with more than 8,000 Japanese companies nationwide.
The vast majority of these companies do not own the space they are in, but rent it, mostly from American owners. There are numerous Japanese trading companies, banks and insurance companies that occupy multiple floors in some of our most prestigious office towers. These are dollars that flow into this country from Japan and end up in American pockets. These companies also hire mostly American staffs.
All of this bodes well for the New York metropolitan area, especially in light of recent contractions in the financial community, the downturn in our economy and the general softness of the real estate market.
Rather than focus on perceived negatives, we should concentrate on the positive contributions the Japanese make to our country, its people and economy.
 
JEFFREY A. LANDERS
White Plains, Dec. 20, 1989
 The writer heads a commercial real estate company.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (97%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (72%); NEW YORK (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US REAL ESTATE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CITIES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); CURRENCIES (65%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (62%); INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: LANDERS, JEFFREY A MARVIN STUART TRAUB (55%); 



180 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: In Chile, Economic and Political Success Go Hand in Hand;
Tell the Whole Truth

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As historians and journalists should know, a partial truth can be an untruth; half the story is not the whole story. Thus, your ''history'' of the military coup against Salvador Allende (front page, Dec. 15) is both bad history and bad journalism. You describe the military coup that brought Augusto Pinochet to power in Chile this way: ''with the country in economic chaos as the result of strikes, inflation, property confiscations and shortages, the armed forces took power with broad public support.''
You omit the role of the United States, managed by the Central Intelligence Agency and the National Security Council, in creating that economic chaos (for example, by denying Chile access to international credit and embargoing copper, Chile's main export). The United States also secretly paid for work stoppages and strikes and supported opposition to Allende by covert financing of political parties, news-papers, television and radio stations, to the tune of $8 million.
While the United States labored away at destabilizing the government Chileans had freely elected in 1970, it was strengthening those who would illegally overthrow that government with $15 million in military aid in 1971 and '72.
This information and more is easily available. For starters, see the reports of the United States Senate Intelligence Committee, ''Covert Action in Chile, 1963-73'' and ''Alleged Assassination Plots Involving Foreign Leaders.''
 
JUDITH PAPACHRISTOU
Bronxville, N.Y., Dec. 15, 1989
 The writer is a professor of history at Sarah Lawrence College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHILE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHILE

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); COUPS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); HISTORY (89%); WRITERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); POLITICS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); ASSASSINATION (50%); 

PERSON: PAPACHRISTOU, JUDITH (PROF); ALLENDE GOSSENS, SALVADOR SALVADOR ALLENDE (69%); 



181 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Violence at Discotheque Mobilizes Neighborhood

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FREITAG

 BODY:
Like many of the people waiting to enter the Underground on Friday night, Yvette Garner knew that three young men, including two bystanders, had been shot in front of the nightclub a week before.
And Ms. Garner, a 21-year-old resident of the Coney Island section of Brooklyn, knew that the shootings, which left two of the men dead and the third seriously injured, were just the latest in a series of violent episodes at the club in recent months. But she was not afraid. ''I don't think it's going to happen two weeks in a row,'' Ms. Garner said as she waited for a friend by the Underground's entrance at 860 Broadway, opposite Union Square in Manhattan. ''And there's never trouble inside. Just out here.'' 
There has been a good deal of trouble outside the two-story, block-long discotheque. In 1989, five people were killed, another eight were injured in stabbings or shootings, and dozens of others - including a group of farmers setting up a stand across the street - were assaulted in or near the Underground, the police said. Patrons of the Underground and spokesmen for the club contend that angry neighbors are using it as a scapegoat for crimes that afflict any urban area. But to a coalition of Union Square residents, shopkeepers, community leaders and politicians, the Underground is a magnet for violence and an impediment to their efforts to rebuild the neighborhood. They want the club closed. ''My wife and I can't go out after 11 at night without a fear of being shot,'' said Mik Cribben, a 42-year-old film maker who lives in a loft on East 17th Street near the club. ''There's an undeniable pattern of violence there that dates back at least three years.''
 
'Focal Point' for the Police
Officer Dennis Ostermann of the 13th Precinct described the Underground as a ''focal point'' for police activity. ''There are definitely more criminal complaints there than at the other clubs in the precinct,'' he said.
On Dec. 30, at 3:30 A.M., a young man who had apparently been ejected from the Underground returned with a gun and fired at a man he had been arguing with inside. The target of the attack was killed, as was a bystander, Stephen H. Pleasants, a 30-year-old paralegal in the Queens District Attorney's office. Another bystander, Richard Lyn-Cook, a 19-year-old sophomore at Yale University, was shot in the head and is partly paralyzed on the left side.
On Oct. 1, Wesley Morales was shot and killed in a fight several blocks from the club. The police believe Mr. Morales and his assailant had just left the club. In February, Keith Headley, 17, was killed by a shotgun blast as he left the club at 3:30 A.M. On Jan. 29, a 23-year-old bouncer, Timothy Lorenzo, was shot in the face and killed in front of the club after an argument with a patron.
And about 6:30 A.M. on Aug. 12, three farmers setting up their stands at the Greenmarket in Union Square Park were beaten by a group of youths who had just left the Underground.
''I can't help but be a little leery about that place,'' said Kenneth R. Hanley, a poultry farmer from Columbus, N.Y., who received 13 stitches in his left ear as a result of the attack. ''The gangs come out of there and flood through the park when we are setting up.'' Mr. Hanley said he still comes to the city at least twice a week.
 
'Absolutely Out of Control'
Although Mr. Cribben and other neighbors had complained about the Underground for nearly a year, it was the attack on the farmers that seemed to get the attention of community leaders and politicians.
''In the last four months, that place has been absolutely out of control,'' said Robert W. Walsh, the executive director of the 14th Street-Union Square Local Development Corporation and an informal leader of the coalition opposing the Underground.
Mr. Walsh said he was concerned that the violence would scare away people interested in moving into the neighborhood, which has seen an explosion of economic growth in recent years that coincided with the refurbishing of the park.
Since early December, the coalition, which includes representatives of New York University, the New School for Social Research, the Greenmarket and Rothman's clothing store, has been pressing the State Liquor Authority to revoke the club's liquor license.
 
Charges Are Pending
Last February, the authority charged the club with serving alcohol to minors and with being a focal point of police activity, but the case has had repeated delays. The next hearings are scheduled for Jan. 17 and 18. If the club is convicted, its license could be revoked or suspended and the owner could be fined.
Richard E. Chernela, a spokesman for the Liquor Authority, said: ''I can certainly understand the frustrations of people who live around the premises who are concerned about the violence. But they must also understand that anybody who is charged in this matter is entitled to due process and that we must look at these things objectively and dispassionately.''
Warren B. Pesetsky, the club's lawyer, said the charges by the Liquor Authority and the community are unfair.
Almost all of the incidents have taken place outside the club and many of the people involved had been ejected, Mr. Pesetsky said. Bouncers are always stationed at the door and inside, he said, and all patrons are searched.
''I'm not minimizing what happened or the loss of life, but I don't think the club could have done anything differently,'' Mr. Pesetsky said.
On Friday, Mr. Pesetsky met with Mr. Walsh, Mr. Cribben and other members of the community coalition. He told the group that the club had decided to hire uniformed guards to patrol outside the club. The guards probably will be armed, he added.
Mr. Pesetsky also said the club may change the way it is marketed, to draw an older, more affluent crowd. On Friday nights, he said, the club features reggae music and attracts a younger crowd. On Saturday nights, it features pop music and attracts an older group.
Mr. Walsh said most of the people who attended the meeting with Mr. Pesetsky were not satisfied with his responses and have vowed to continue their efforts to close the Underground. But the group is not sure who owns the 10-year-old club, Mr. Walsh said.
Mr. Chernela of the Liquor Authority said the Underground's owner of record is the 860 Broadway Restaurant Corporation, a holding company whose sole shareholder is Ronna Juliano. Mr. Pesetsky said Friday that Mrs. Juliano was not available to comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNDERGROUND (NYC DISCO)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION SQUARE (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); POLICE FORCES (71%); HEAD INJURIES (71%); PARALEGALS (60%); 

PERSON: FREITAG, MICHAEL YVETTE GARNER (58%); 



182 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Digital Tape Machines Expected by July

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Jan. 7

 BODY:
Digital audio tape recorders, which could become the next major advance in home stereo equipment, should begin reaching the American market by the middle of this year, two leading manufacturers said this weekend.
The statements by the Sony Corporation and the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company, known for its Panasonic and Technics brands, are the first concrete indication of when the machines will reach the market since equipment manufacturers and record companies reached an agreement on copyright protection in July.
''We believe it's reasonable to assume we'll have D.A.T. products in the first half of the year,'' said Neil Vander Dussen, president of the Sony Corporation of America. Matsushita's Technics division went even further, announcing a price of $1,200 to $1,300 for a recorder that will go on sale in the summer. 
The announcements were made at the Consumer Electronics Show, the semiannual industry extravaganza that this year features television screens as large as walls and digital sound systems that can make a living room or automobile interior sound like a cathedral or concert hall at the push of a button.
Yet the show has a somewhat somber tone this time. Industry executives said they expected little growth in the coming year because of weakness in the economy. The Electronic Industries Association, the trade group that sponsors the show, said factory sales of consumer electronics in the United States grew 6 percent in 1989, to $32.2 billion, and are expected to grow only 4 percent this year.
Digital audio tape machines offer the same high-quality sound as digital compact disks but allow users to record their own music. Compact disk players can only play pre-recorded material.
The recorders have been kept off the American market for three years because of opposition from record companies, which fear the machines will lead to widespread taping of compact disks, hurting sales.
In July, however, record companies agreed to drop their opposition if the tape machine manufacturers would include special copyright protection circuitry in their machines. The circuitry, known as the Serial Copy Management System, will allow consumers to make direct digital copies of compact disks in unlimited quantities, but will prevent them from making tapes of those tapes.
 
Act of Congress Is Needed
Legislation is still needed to enforce the agreement. Manufacturers hope that a bill will be introduced after Congress reconvenes this month.
There is some thought that even if the legislation is not passed by the summer, some manufacturers will introduce their machines anyway. But the companies are reluctant to say this, and it is possible that they will change their plans if the legislation bogs down in Congress.
Many other manufacturers are cautious as well. They showed digital tape machines on the exhibit floor but declined to say when they would bring them to market.
There is also caution about how quickly the new machines will catch on. Sales are expected to go slowly at first because of the high price of the recorders and because there are still few pre-recorded tapes available to play on the machines.
 
TV Sales Continue to Grow
Despite the somber outlook for the industry, sales of color television sets continue to grow, with 22 million sets sold to dealers in the United States in 1989, up from 20.2 million in 1988. Camcorder sales grew to 2.3 million, from 2 million, though growth was slower than some industry executives had anticipated.
But sales of videocassette recorders, once the industry's star product, declined again to 12 million units, from 12.8 million in 1988.
Compact disk player sales grew strongly to 6.5 million units in 1989, from 5 million in 1988, though growth is expected to moderate somewhat in 1990. Other fast-growing categories included video games, telephones, cellular telephones and home office equipment like facsimile machines.
With the exception of digital tape machines, the products that electronics companies are pushing are generally more expensive and sophisticated versions of existing equipment.
 
'Home Theater' Gets Attention
One concept receiving a lot of attention this year will be ''home theater,'' in which large-screen televisions are combined with powerful audio systems to give viewers the feeling of being at the movies.
This idea has been around for several years, and executives say the equipment is improving enough to make it practical, though only for consumers willing to spend at least several thousand dollars.
Conventional picture tube television sets with 30- to 35-inch screens are becoming more popular. Projection television sets with even larger screens are improving in quality.
Taking the trend to its extreme, Mitsubishi introduced here a rear-projection television with a 120-inch screen. The set, which measures 8 feet wide by 6 feet high and 6.5 feet deep, comes in five pieces and must be assembled inside the home. The price will be $18,000 to $20,000.
Mitsubishi said 37 percent of the wealthy video enthusiasts that it surveyed indicated they would be willing to remodel their homes to accommodate such a behemoth.
 
'Surround-Sound Audio'
Home theaters use ''surround-sound audio,'' in which several speakers are used to make the sound engulf the viewer. One new category of product in this class is the digital signal processor, which uses special computer controls and software to simulate the echoes and sound patterns of different listening environments.
The Yamaha Corporation and Sony have begun marketing home systems, which sell for $1,000, and many more companies are expected to enter the market.
Eclipse, a unit of Fujitsu Ltd., as well as Technics and others, are introducing such systems for cars. Listeners can give themselves the illusion that they are sitting in an intimate jazz club or huge concert hall.
''You're in St. Patrick's right now,'' said Rick Del Guidice, car audio products manager for Technics, as organ music reverberated through a compact car as if it were resonating through a huge cathedral.
 
Some Offbeat Products
As in previous years, this year's show has its share of novel and somewhat offbeat products.
Technics is introducing a car radio that enables listeners to find stations they like in strange cities. By punching in the name of the city and the desired format, the radio will scan only the rock stations in that city, or only the classical music stations, and so on. The key is a data base on more than 9,000 stations compiled by the PRS Corporation of New York.
Sega Enterprises Ltd., a maker of video game machines, is introducing Michael Jackson's Moonwalker, a video game in which the rock star struts, spins and dances villains to death to save the world's children.
A Chatsworth, Calif., company called With Design in Mind is showing a $50 low-power broadcasting machine that will enable people to play disk jockey, transmitting voice and sound effects to an FM radio within their home.
The company is also displaying something called the Sunsquirt, intended to keep sunbathers from overheating. ''Put this down and every three minutes or every five minutes, whatever you set it for, it will spray a fine mist over your body,'' said Barry R. Benjamin, a vice president.

GRAPHIC: photo: A new video system on display at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. (NYT/Marty Katz) (pg. D10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6752 (TSE) (85%); SON (LSE) (72%); SNE (NYSE) (72%); 6758 (TSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (92%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (85%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (72%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: SONY DADC (92%); PANASONIC CORP (85%); SONY CORP (72%); SONY CORP OF AMERICA (56%); ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN (55%); ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (55%); ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SONY CORP; MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: RECORDING EQUIPMENT; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); DIGITAL AUDIO TAPE PLAYERS AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); COPYRIGHT LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (79%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); COPYRIGHT (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (71%); TRADE SHOWS (68%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW



183 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Farm Credit Agency to Price Its Bonds

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of issues this week includes today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills, Wednesday's auction of seven-year notes and Thursday's auction of one-year bills.
By late Friday the outstanding three-month bill was bid at 7.54 percent, while the six-month bill was bid at 7.46 percent. One-year bills were bid at 7.28 percent, and in when-issued trading the seven-year note was being offered at a price to yield 7.99 percent.
Among Government agency financings expected this week is a $635 million financing by the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, which plans to price bonds with maturities of three years and five years on Wednesday.
Today the Student Loan Marketing Association plans to announce the interest rate for a $500 million issue of short-term floating-rate notes due on July 12, 1990. The notes, to be offered through various securities dealers, will be priced at a spread to the bond equivalent yield of the 91-day Treasury bill, with the interest rate adjusted the day after each Treasury bill auction.
The following new fixed-income issues are scheduled this week:
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
 
State of Washington, $120 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
University of Missouri, $52.8 million in notes. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
 
Phoenix, $100 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Stamford, Conn., $55 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TENTATIVE OFFERINGS THIS WEEK
 
Boston, $75 million in general obligation bonds. Lazard Freres & Co.
Michigan State Building Authority, $140.6 million in lease revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley & Co.
New Jersey Health Care Facilities Finance Agency, $95 million in revenue bonds for the Elizabeth General Medical Center. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
New York Dormitory Authority, $252.6 million in City University System consolidated revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley & Co.
Sacramento, Calif., $125 million in revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (84%); SLM (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (70%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (70%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); FEDERAL FARM CREDIT BANKS FUNDING CORP (70%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (67%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (66%); SLM CORP (56%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CORPORATE BONDS BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); HEALTH CARE (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%); 

PERSON: CLARE SHORT (53%); 



184 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 13, Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: What Price Art? Ask Japanese Collectors.

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 7

 BODY:
Japanese art buyers may have become a dominant force in Western auction houses, but in Japan this flood of money is increasingly a source of gloom for many members of the art establishment.
Japanese buyers spent a remarkable total of $230 million in a series of auctions at Sotheby's and Christie's in New York in November, mostly for Impressionist works. Afterward, many museum curators, critics and some dealers here said that not only was the price spiral freezing public institutions out of the market, but that the Japanese public, which is still becoming acquainted with Western paintings, was being encouraged by the publicity to relate to these artworks largely on the basis of their price tags.
''What is happening to the market has been disastrous for all Japanese museums,'' said Nobuo Abe, chief curator of the Bridgestone Museum of Art in Tokyo, which specializes in Western art, especially Impressionism and modern works. Mr. Abe said he can no longer compete for top works. 
 
Competing With 'Speculators'
That is a remarkable setback for a museum that, just a few years ago, was jarring the art world with its audacious purchases. Although its acquisitions budget is a relatively modest $1 million a year, it could spend up to $10 million by spending money unused in previous years or by borrowing from future budgets. The Bridgestone, a prominent corporate collection open to the public, paid $3.3 million for a Picasso in 1980 and $10 million for a Renoir in 1986. Mr. Abe said those figures made him something of a Little Leaguer compared with today's buyers, a group to which he referred as ''those typical real estate speculators.''
Tomonori Tsurumaki, a slight, impatient real estate magnate who recently paid $51.3 million at the Drouot auction house in Paris for the moody ''Pierrette's Wedding'' by Picasso, is precisely the kind of collector Mr. Abe had in mind.
Mr. Tsurumaki, an otherwise terse man, beamed when given a chance to describe his trophy and the conspicuous manner in which he acquired it. He grew animated in reliving the four minutes it took him to outbid his rivals for the Picasso by telephone. He won the bidding in the middle of a party he was giving at a Tokyo hotel for 500 guests, including a former Prime Minister, Noboru Takeshita. The event was duly recorded in Japanese gossip magazines, along with comments about Mr. Tsurumaki's reputed links to Japanese yakuza, or organized crime figures, and his arrest on gang-related extortion charges in 1986. (There was no indictment, and the charges were dropped.) .
 
'Pierrette' and Corvettes
But Mr. Tsurumaki was proudest when describing the museum where he said he will house the painting - at a huge resort he is building in the middle of a national park in mountainous southern Japan, centered on an auto race track. The Nippon Autopolis, as it is called, is being marketed with a video that alternates computer graphics and photographs of vintage Corvettes and Thunderbirds with Picassos and Magrittes from his art collection.
Mr. Tsurumaki also displayed a copy of a letter from the Los Angeles County Museum of Art appealing for the loan of one of his Braques for a future show.
''History shows that good artworks will drift into countries with strong economies, so it's natural for pieces to come to Japan one after another,'' said Fumio Hayakawa, chief curator of the Yamanashi Prefectural Museum west of Tokyo, which was the first of Japan's regional museums to begin spending huge sums for medama - eye-catching pictures to attract crowds - by acquiring a Millet in 1979 for nearly $1 million.
''But as a museum curator I can only sigh and say that I feel helpless with what is happening to prices,'' he added.
The medama trend received its biggest boost in 1987 with the acquisition at Christie's in London of van Gogh's ''Sunflowers'' for $39.9 million by the Yasuda Fire and Marine Insurance Company in Tokyo. The purchase was made to celebrate and publicize the company's centenary. Today, some critics describe the painting as a ''hostage,'' as one put it, outclassing and out of place with the rest of the company's collection on public display in Tokyo.
 
A Market That 'Never Grew Up'
Some curators, dealers and critics admit that they share blame for the inflation of art prices. They say their narrow and highly public pursuit of a short list of Impressionist, Post-Impressionist and modern masters has turned names like Picasso, Renoir and Monet into popular emblems of respectability for those eager to clean up or establish reputations.
Many of the new collectors, they add, are merely emulating a pattern that the museums legitimized earlier. They appear unwilling to venture more widely in the kinds and periods of art they purchase because the museums, the arbiters of taste, have not.
''It's an immature market,'' said Ryuichiro Mizushima, a Tokyo art dealer. ''It never grew up.'' Plenty of experts share that view. Toshio Hara, head of the respected Hara Museum of Contemporary Art in Tokyo, lamented the fact that young Japanese artists find little support because collectors and museums generally prefer a minor work by a well-known name to that of a budding contemporary artist. In fact, some curators admitted that they had filled their museums with second- and third-rate paintings at great cost because of their parochial interest in names rather than quality.
Kazuo Fujii, a Tokyo gallery owner and head of the Five Cities Art Dealers Association, the leading trade group in Japan, said that several years ago he bought works by well-known American artists like Jasper Johns, Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein. Mr. Fujii, speaking in his small office in the Ginza shopping district and surrounded by a Picasso, a Renoir and a Cezanne, said he eventually resold the contemporary works to Americans after failing to attract Japanese buyers.
Yoshiaki Tono, a critic and art professor, said of the new collectors, ''Contemporary art is too cheap to satisfy their ambitions.''
And Haruo Arikawa, curator of the National Museum of Western Art in Tokyo, said his museum has been struggling for years, with very limited success, to generate interest among the Japanese public in Old Masters and classical Western paintings, which it has been collecting in part because they are less expensive than the Impressionists.
 
The Exceptions
To be sure, there are collectors with broader tastes. Prominent among them is Shigeki Kameyama, a dealer who has been paying big prices throughout the 1980's for works by postwar American artists and others. He recently paid a record price for a painting by a living artist when he bought Willem de Kooning's ''Interchange'' for $20.7 million. Mr. Kameyama also paid $26.4 million for Picasso's ''Mirror.'' Both purchases were made at Sotheby's in New York.
Japan has a long and sophisticated esthetic tradition of its own; calligraphers' brushes were dancing across geometric-patterned scrolls centuries ago, creating provocative, fluid images that would have done the Abstract Expressionists proud. There is also an equally long history of patronage and collecting. In fact, prices for Japanese art - sold discreetly at dealers' offices rather than at auctions - have also been rising.
 
Economic Factors
To a great extent, there is a simple economic explanation for the trend in art buying. Japan's soaring economy and booming real estate market have put tens of billions of dollars of profits in the hands of entrepreneurs.Then there is the rising value of the yen, which has more than doubled its buying power in dollar terms since 1985.
But what has struck the experts as unusual is how these collectors have for the most part narrowly followed the old orthodoxy in taste. As Mr. Arikawa and others pointed out, today's collectors are pursuing precisely the same kinds of paintings that wealthier Japanese were buying up in large quantities before World War II. In fact, they said, Japanese tastes in Western painting today seem eerily frozen in that time.
One leading new collector is Yasumichi Morishita, whose principal business has been making personal loans at very high interest. Mr. Morishita has a record of two criminal convictions for fraud and extortion. He owns Aska International, which operates a gallery in Tokyo. Along with a list of works by modern artists he has been buying furiously, he recently acquired a 6.5 percent share in Christie's, the auction house.
Mr. Morishita has said he paid $100 million for 100 Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings at sales in New York in November. He is said to own 20 Renoirs as well as paintings by van Gogh, Degas, Monet, Vuillard and Gauguin. Other dealers complain that his flamboyant mass purchases of paintings that are not worth the money have contributed to the wild prices in the art market.
 
The New Leader
But the unacknowledged leader of the new collectors may be Mr. Tsurumaki, who is 46 years old. After asking a visitor to view the marketing video for his Autopolis theme park in a room dominated by a huge video screen, a Picasso painting and a collection of crystal model cars, he led the way into his blond wood-paneled office.
He said he made his original fortune in a steel products wholesaling business before branching out into real estate. He added that he had been collecting art for several years and had been the underbidder on several major auction sales in recent months.
Mr. Tsurumaki said his Autopolis, which is expected to cost hundreds of millions of dollars, will provide a much-needed outlet for the pent-up yearnings of Japan's youth.
''People are frustrated with their lack of ability to drive fast in Japan,'' he said. ''I want to provide a healthy way to allow them to do so.'' The museum will provide a place of repose for these racers when they want a break, he said.
While some in the art world turn up their noses at Mr. Tsurumaki, they admit that in an odd way he and the other new buyers may be forcing a much-needed broadening in Japanese tastes for Western art.
''It is impossible for us now to purchase important Impressionist paintings,'' said Mr. Abe of the Bridgestone Museum. ''So we have to make our acquisitions in a new field, the pre-Impressionists and perhaps modern art from the 1950's and 1960's. We are expanding our interests; we have to.''
Mr. Hara of the Hara Museum said that younger people especially are growing restless for new images and new ideas. ''It's not easy to see, but there have been changes,'' he said. ''Younger people really do want to establish their own values.''
Mr. Arikawa of the National Museum of Western Art was much more guardedly optimistic. ''We are hoping to lead tastes toward a broader appreciation for Western art, but it will take 20 or 30 years, about two generations,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: photos: Van Gogh's ''Sunflowers,'' top, arriving at a Tokyo insurance company. Tomonori Tsurumaki, above, bought Picasso's ''Pierrette's Wedding.'' At right, Haruo Arikawa of the National Museum of Western Art, with a Rubens. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO HOTEL (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ART; AUCTIONS AUCTIONS (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (83%); ART COLLECTING (78%); PAINTING (78%); CRIME RATES (64%); EXTORTION (60%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); ARRESTS (60%); INDICTMENTS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES TOMONORI TSURUMAKI (79%); NOBUO ABE (69%); 



185 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 13, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Review/Theater;
Politics, Flight and Sanctuary in 'De Donde?'

BYLINE: By MEL GUSSOW, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, Jan. 5

 BODY:
Illegal immigration from Mexico to Texas has traditionally been a search for economic opportunity - migrants looking for farm work - but increasingly it has become a case of political necessity, as people run for their lives from repressive Central American regimes. This is the basic premise of Mary Gallagher's compelling new play, ''De Donde?,'' which opened Thursday night at the Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park, as part of the company's 30th anniversary season.
Though the play is drawn from documented sources, gathered during the playwright's research in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas, it has been transformed into visceral theater. While addressing issues, ''De Donde?'' does not succumb to polemical techniques and keeps its focus on the humanity and the individuality of its characters. Because of the subject and the economy of execution - 13 actors double in more than 40 roles - the play should have a special appeal to other institutional theaters equally interested in provoking audiences into political awareness. 
Crossing the border, the characters in the play are met by a divided reception. There are those who regard the refugees as aliens to be prosecuted, while others consider their escape heroic. Those with the best of motives sometimes blunder, and United States citizens of Hispanic origin can be overcome by snobbery toward the more recent arrivals. Recent world events give Ms. Gallagher's work an additional immediacy. At least indirectly, the play is concerned with United States policy in Central America. In assessing the immigration situation, the author traces the problems to the legal inequities of the naturalization system and its administrators.
The approach is exploratory rather than hortatory - the opposite, in other words, of a Costa-Gavras film. Ms. Gallagher does not lose sight of the abuses of liberty, some of them absurd. One of her strongest suits as a playwright is her sense of irony, which asserts itself even in tense situations.
A young woman (Socorro Santiago) who has fled her country after a threat of rape and acts of violence against her family, is denied asylum. But when a lawyer is told that the woman's brother was tortured to death, he says, unblinkingly, ''Him we could get asylum for.'' ''De Donde?'' is filled with such ''Catch-22'' quandaries, leaving immigrants, many of them unable to speak English, confused about which option to take. Often the easiest course is to return to one's home country, even though retribution awaits.
The title of the play is crucial -''De Donde?,'' or, freely translated, ''Where do you come from?'' The unasked question is ''A donde?,'' or, ''Where do you go?'' The response would be, ''Anywhere but home.''
Repeatedly the refugees try to explain to officials the pressing reasons for their flight, and they are met with indifference.
Those who want to provide assistance are trapped by a legalistic bureaucracy. A concerned paralegal (Bill Cwikowski) with a high sense of purpose must accede to the pragmatic wishes of the lawyers who employ him. An elderly nun must weigh questions of conscience against the possibility of reprisals against her sanctuary. As they realize, the most that can be hoped for is not a change of policy but ''buying people time.''
Under the direction of Sam Blackwell, the actors double on all sides of the battle lines. Scenes are counterpointed and overlap. In the background there are several songs by Ruben Blades (more would give the play added flavor). Demarcations are drawn less by the sparse scenery than by the lighting, as the play moves swiftly from border patrol to internment camp. One could envision a more detailed production, but Mr. Blackwell's staging has an efficiency that does not intrude on the cinematic crosscuts.
Most of the actors in the largely Hispanic cast skillfully delineate their various characters, including Marie Barrientos, Enrique Munoz and Betty Miller. Mr. Cwikowski and Ms. Santiago, the only actors who do not double, are particularly moving as the paralegal and the refugee he protects.
Ms. Santiago is so frightened that she remains silent in the face of interrogation, and in so doing unwittingly furnishes herself with a legal defense. If authorities do not know where detainees come from, they may not be able to initiate deportation proceedings. Ms. Santiago's eventual recounting of her ordeal in Central America pierces the play with a cry of helplessness.
Necessarily certain relationships are simplified, as in a romance between a border guard and a young Hispanic woman - and a vaudeville interlude in a holding station does not achieve the desired black comic effect. But Ms. Gallagher's accomplishment is considerable. ''De Donde?'' is an outspoken act of social consciousness in a career that, up to now, has been profitably concerned with matters of marriage, home and family (most recently Off Broadway with ''How to Say Goodbye'').
In her work, the playwright has expressed a fierce loyalty to moral principles, even as people are carried away to excessive behavior, as in her satire, ''Dog Eat Dog,'' in which suburbanites combat the recession by becoming supermarket thieves.
''De Donde?'' is a most effective kind of political theater. It encourages the audience to use deductive reasoning to arrive at an inescapable conclusion: in the present handling of illegal immigration to the United States, injustice is being served.
 
NO WAY OUT - DE DONDE?, by Mary Gallagher; directed by Sam Blackwell; set by Jay Depenbrock; costumes, by Laura Crow; lighting, by Kirk Bookman; stage manager, Bruce E. Coyle. Co-produced by Clark, Schaefer, Hackett & Company. Presented by the Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park, Worth Gardner, artistic director; Kathleen Norris, managing director. At Cincinnati.
 
With: Marie Barrientos, Bill Cwikowski, Betty Miller, Ted Minos, Steve Mones, Rene Moreno, Enrique Munoz, John Ortiz, Robert Reilly, Socorro Santiago, Phil Soltanof, Katie C. Sparer and Marta Vidal.

GRAPHIC: photo: Socorro Santiago in ''De Donde?'' (Sandy Underwood)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DE DONDE? (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (88%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); NATURALIZATION (79%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); FARM LABOR (78%); REFUGEES (78%); WOMEN (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); LAWYERS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); TORTURE (67%); CITIZENSHIP (52%); 

PERSON: GUSSOW, MEL MARY GALLAGHER (79%); SOCORRO SANTIAGO (73%); 



186 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: WITH DEATHS TIED TO SALVADOR ARMY, AID FIGHT IS LIKELY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
Responding to a Salvadoran statement that military men were involved in the killing of six Jesuit priests in November, Administration officials acknowledged today that future aid to El Salvador would hinge on satisfying Congress about the progress of the investigation.
But the Administration said it did not think that aid to El Salvador should be directly tied to the inquiry, setting the stage for a battle with Congressional Democrats, many of whom insist that the case serve as a test of whether the United States should support the rightist Government in San Salvador.
 
U.S. Pressure Called Factor
In a televised announcement Sunday night, President Alfredo Cristiani of El Salvador said ''some elements of the armed forces'' were behind the killings, which took place on Nov. 16. A Congressional critic of United States policy in El Salvador and officials of the Bush Administration said today that American pressure was partly responsible for that announcement. 
Administration officials said they kept pressure on El Salvador to investigate the killings in part to forestall efforts by Democrats in Congress, who want to halt American aid to the Salvadoran military, which has long been tied to human rights abuses.
 
Obstacles to Prosecution
The White House officials also said they genuinely wanted those responsible brought to justice, but diplomats and lawyers in San Salvador said today that there would be many obstacles to a successful prosecution. [Page A10.] A housekeeper and her daughter were also killed in the attack, which came six days before Congress adjourned. Legislators expressed deep outrage at the time, and there were unsuccessful attempts in the Senate and the House to restrict aid.
Many legislators expressed concern that the killings were ''most likely carried out with American-supplied weapons,'' in the words of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York.
Representative Joe Moakley, Democrat of Massachusetts, who leads a committee investigating the killings, said in an interview today that he was ''very happy about the announcement'' by Mr. Cristiani because it suggested that the Salvadoran Government was making a diligent investigation. The Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley, Democrat of Washington, appointed the committee.
Mr. Cristiani ''knows that Congress is serious about reviewing American aid if these killings are not solved, with the right people indicted and sentenced,'' Mr. Moakley said. ''Many people will make up their minds on further aid to El Salvador based on the way this case is handled.''
Mr. Moakley, who is chairman of the House Rules Committee, has been a critic of American policy in El Salvador for a decade. He said that Mr. Cristiani was ''cooperating fully'' with Congressional efforts to monitor the investigation.
''The Speaker's involvement put additional pressure on El Salvador,'' Mr. Moakley said. Closer Review Called Necessary With most members of Congress out of town, it is difficult to determine whether Mr. Cristiani's announcement will stave off new Congressional restrictions on American aid. While pleased with the investigation so far, members of Congress said they needed to review the inquiry more closely before deciding whether to restrict aid.
The Bush Administration said today that Mr. Cristiani showed ''great courage'' in declaring that military men were responsible for killing the priests. Mr. Cristiani is the leader of a rightist alliance that has been accused of backing paramilitary death squads.
Administration officials said the vigor of the official Salvadoran investigation showed that there was no reason for the United States to reduce or restrict aid to El Salvador, as some Democratic members of Congress have demanded.
Margaret D. Tutwiler, the State Department spokeswoman, said the Administration hoped that the future of American aid ''would not be linked'' to the investigation.
''While identifying these alleged individuals is a decisive and necessary first step, the Salvadoran Government must now take actions to prosecute'' those responsible for the crime, Miss Tutwiler said. ''I have no reason to believe'' that El Salvador will not fully investigate the ''horrendous murder'' of the priests, she said.
 
'Salutary,' Rights Group Says
Americas Watch, a human rights group, said, ''The Cristiani Government's admission of military involvement is an important and salutary development.'' But noting that there have been no indictments or arrests, the group said the Bush Administration must ''maintain sufficient pressure to see that all those responsible are tried and punished.''
Miss Tutwiler said she did not know the rank of the Salvadoran soldiers suspected in the killings.
Mr. Moakley said his independent inquiry strongly suggested that ''the responsibility goes extremely high'' in the Salvadoran armed forces.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is providing laboratory services to the Salvadoran Government to help with the inquiry. F.B.I. officials declined today to give details of the bureau's help. Mr. Cristiani asked for such help in a letter sent to President Bush on Nov. 19.
El Salvador received $298 million in economic aid and $80 million in military assistance from the United States last year. In the last eight years, Washington has provided more than $3.2 billion of aid to El Salvador, about $1 billion in military equipment. The Government has been fighting a civil war against leftist rebels for more than a decade, and the priests' killings came during a rebel offensive in the capital. A strict curfew was in place at the time, during which only the military was allowed to move freely. #47 Are Confined to Base Just after the killings, the Bush Administration adamantly opposed Congressional efforts to curtail aid to El Salvador, even though it now appears that such efforts were partly responsible for the Salvadoran Government's professed commitment to investigate.
Members of the elite Atlacatl battalion are among those suspected of being involved in the killings. Col. Rene Emilio Ponce, the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in El Salvador, said on Sunday that 47 members of the battalion were being confined to their base even though they had not been arrested or formally charged.
Many members of the battalion have been trained by the United States. But an American official said, ''Just about every battalion in El Salvador has received U.S. training of one type or another.''
Anne Manuel, the research director of Americas Watch, said the Atlacatl battalion was implicated in the 1981 massacre of more than 700 peasants in the Salvadoran province of Morazan. It has also been accused in the killings of at least 68 people in Cabanas province in 1984 and the massacre of at least 50 in Chalatenango province in 1984.
Its record cast doubt on ''the theory promoted by successive U.S. administrations that U.S. training brings about improved human rights behavior,'' she said.
Without naming those responsible for killing the priests in November, Miss Tutwiler said, ''We are pleased that the Salvadorans have made this important breakthrough in identifying alleged perpetrators of the despicable slayings of the Jesuit fathers.''
Marlin Fitzwater, the White House press secretary, said the White House had no independent information about who carried out the slayings.
''Cristiani has shown great courage,'' he said. ''We asked that the investigation be thorough and the prosecution move ahead, and it looks like that's the course he is on. He deserves a lot of credit.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EL SALVADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EL SALVADOR

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; JESUITS; PRIESTS; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EL SALVADOR-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US RELIGION (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); ASSASSINATION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); INDICTMENTS (72%); SENTENCING (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CRISTIANI, ALFREDO (PRES) ALFREDO CRISTIANI (71%); 



187 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2304 words

HEADLINE: Uranium Miners Inherit Dispute's Sad Legacy

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
From 1947 until the early 1960's, two Federal agencies struggled in secret over the fate of thousands of men who were being exposed to hazardous levels of radiation while mining uranium for the nuclear weapons industry.
The Atomic Energy Commission prevailed in the battle over mine safety with the Public Health Service. The result has been a widening trail of deaths and disabilities from lung cancer across Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico and Utah, according to Federal and state researchers.
Across the four-state region, once-robust mining towns like Naturita and Uravan in Colorado and Marysvale in Utah are becoming ghost towns inhabited by widows and aging men who live with one lung and the daily worry of developing cancer in the other.
Federal and state officials believe that about 15,000 men worked in the mines at one time or another from the late 1940's until the mid-1960's, when uranium mining stopped because the Government had stockpiled all it needed. Almost 4,200 miners who worked full time hauling uranium ore from the mountains and deserts were secretly studied over the years. More than 400 have died of lung cancer - five times the number expected in a similar-size group of American men, according to the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health and the New Mexico Tumor Registry. 
 
Sad History Slowly Emerges
Hundreds of other men have been disabled by the disease. In the next two decades, the total of confirmed lung cancer deaths among the West's uranium miners could double, Federal and state researchers say.
The history of lung cancer deaths and disabilities among uranium miners, which has been unfolding in public documents and Congressional hearings since 1959, is still largely unknown outside the sage-cloaked plains and rugged canyons of the four-state mining region known as the Colorado Plateau. It is the most thoroughly documented evidence yet made public of how a secret Government policy to put production ahead of safety in the nuclear weapons industry jeopardized the health of thousands of workers in jobs which, like all mine work, was dangerous under the best of circumstances.
The plight of the miners and the secret bureaucratic struggle of years ago is attracting renewed attention in the West and in Washington. Two Utah Congressmen, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a Republican, and Representative Wayne Owens, a Democrat, have proposed legislation to compensate miners and survivors.
In the last month, The New York Times has interviewed former Public Health Service officials and studied documents from the Department of Energy, from Public Heath Service researchers, and from Stewart L. Udall, the former Interior Secretary who in the 1980's brought two lawsuits on behalf of miners and survivors against the Government and mine operators. Perils Were Perceived But Not Addressed The documents show that the Public Health Service, now an array of world-renowned institutes but at the time a small research and inspection agency, predicted as early as 1949 that radioactive gas and dust in the mines at levels far in excess of Federal safety standards would cause an epidemic of lung cancer unless conditions were improved. The agency continually recommended, with the explicit approval of the Surgeon General's office, that mine conditions be made better.
The documents and interviews revealed several important details about the struggle over mine safety:
* The attempts to improve conditions failed because of the willingness of the Public Health Service to abide by the Atomic Energy Commission's demands for secrecy.
* The Atomic Energy Commission, one of the most influential agencies in the Government, amassed its experts in radiation-related illnesses to discount evidence collected by its less-powerful rival. The Atomic Energy Commission feared that installing equipment would not only alarm miners but would halt production in many mines when the agency was rapidly expanding uranium mining.
* The Atomic Energy Commission, the predecessor of the Department of Energy, rejected as too expensive the Public Health Service's plea to require mine operators to install ventilation equipment until the early 1960's.
Several Public Health Service researchers and at least one Atomic Energy Commission official who sought to make public the plight of the miners were censured or lost their jobs in the late 1940's and early 1950's.
Caught between the Atomic Energy Commission and their belief that radiation in mines would produce an epidemic of lung cancer, the Public Health Service launched the country's first prospective epidemiology study to medically evaluate thousands of miners and follow them through their lives. By the early 1960's, more than 4,000 miners had been examined and were being tracked by epidemiologists.
But in a pact that they now acknowledge was fraught with moral and ethical implications, the health specialists agreed not to tell the miners why they were undergoing periodic physical exams, chest X-rays, and blood, urine, and sputum analyses.
The epidemiology study, still overseen by researchers at the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health in Cincinnati, is considered by radiation-research specialists to be among the most important studies showing a direct relationship between exposure to radiation and disease. 'We Were Essentially Watching Them Die' ''Looking at it with the standards of today, you could take the attitude that the miners were being used as guinea pigs, and we were essentially watching them die,'' said Dr. Victor E. Archer, the principal investigator for the study from 1956 until he retired from the Public Health Service in 1979.
Dr. Archer, now a clinical professor of occupational medicine at the University of Utah School of Medicine, added in a December interview: ''At the time, the situation was that we couldn't do anything to alarm the miners or we wouldn't get our studies done. We needed the studies to convince regulatory authorities that it was necessary to control radon in the mines.''
The result of the bureaucratic struggle is a legacy of disease and death on the Colorado Plateau that will last well into the 21st century. One of the most graphic examples is in a narrow, stony valley 190 miles south of Salt Lake City where lung cancer has turned Marysvale, once a thriving mining town, into a dying settlement of some 350 residents, most of them widows and injured miners.
The list of miners dead from lung cancer in Marysvale and in several surrounding towns numbers at least 31, according to relatives and surviving miners. The few surviving miners in Marysvale count four others who died of respiratory diseases, and seven more who have lost a lung or are developing signs of lung cancer.
''They started dying off here in the early 1960's,'' said Arden M. Higgens, a 56-year-old miner from Marysvale who lost most of his right lung to cancer in 1983 even though he had never smoked. ''Byron Anderson. K. Snow. Daddy Palmer. Seems like it's gotten almost everybody who worked up there in the 1950's. It makes me feel awful depressed.''
Marysvale, settled in the 1840's as a gold and silver mining center and accustomed to the booms and busts of a mineral-based economy, flourished for the last time in the uranium boom, which ended when the mines closed in 1966.
In 1948, at the start of a Government program to promote the development of a domestic source of uranium, the radioactive metal was discovered beneath the barren flanks of the Antelope Range seven miles north of Marysvale. The claims were leased to the Vanadium Corporation of America. By 1952, the Prospector, Freedom, and Bullion-Monarch mines in Marysvale were among Utah's largest producers of uranium.
What the Government, the Vanadium Corporation of America, and Utah officials kept secret from miners was the lethal levels of radon, a colorless and odorless radioactive gas, that contaminated the Marysvale mines.
Radon is formed from the decay of radium contained in uranium ores. In 1951, the Atomic Energy Commission confirmed scientifically that radon itself decays into radioactive particles that become attached to dust inhaled by miners. These particles emit alpha radiation, and once the particles became lodged in a miner's lungs, the radiation had the potential to alter the chromosomes of neighboring cells and initiate cancers. Pioneering Studies Were Done in Europe The first formal scientific studies of the problem, published in Europe in the 1920's, reported that 50 to 75 percent of the deaths among Czech and German miners working with ores containing uranium were from lung cancer. The European studies, considered by American health authorities to be an extraordinarily well-documented case of an occupational hazard, raised alarms in the Public Health Service and among health officers of the Atomic Energy Commission in the late 1940's.
The Government also was concerned about radiation surveys conducted since 1947 that showed the radon levels in many Colorado Plateau uranium mines, including those at Marysvale, exceeded the radon levels in the Czech and German mines. Dr. Archer calculated that during a single day a Marysvale worker could absorb 25 rems of radiation to his lungs - five times the dose now considered safe for an atomic worker for a year.
''We never knew a thing about it,'' said Rell Frederick, a 57-year-old former miner from Marysvale who worked on and off in the uranium mines from 1950 to 1966.
Mr. Frederick, who smoked a pack of cigarettes daily, developed cancer and lost his left lung in 1980. In December, while showing a reporter the rusted steel frameworks and wind-torn timbers of the abandoned mines, Mr. Frederick remarked, ''If they'd said, 'If you work here under these conditions, you'll die an early death,' I don't know what a lot of us would have done. We lived dangerously as miners. But they owed us the truth about what they were up to. They owed us the chance to make our own decisions.''
Duncan A. Holaday, 82, a former Public Health Service sanitary engineer who was one of the first Federal investigators to warn of the danger, said, ''By the late 1940's, there was no question in anybody's mind that radiation in the mines was a real problem.''
''It was quite well understood,'' he said. ''But nobody in the Atomic Energy Commission wanted to pay attention.'' Just Pennies a Pound For Safety Equipment In 1954, Mr. Holaday and several colleagues calculated that if the Atomic Energy Commission paid an extra 5 cents to 6 cents for every pound of processed uranium it bought, mine operators could afford to install ventilation equipment. That year, the Atomic Energy Commission bought more than three million pounds of processed uranium for an average price of $12 a pound, according to production records. But the Atomic Energy Commission and mine operators rejected the pleas and determined that ventilating the mines was unnecessary and too expensive.
The Atomic Energy Commission, the sole buyer of ore and processed uranium, also concluded that even if there was to be a health problem, the agency was not responsible. Lawyers for the Atomic Energy Commission maintained that under the Atomic Energy Act the Federal Government's jurisdiction of uranium began only after it arrived in processing mills.
The documents show that the Public Health Service was also stymied by the Atomic Energy Commission's division of biology and medicine, considered one of the world's leading authorities on the health effects of radiation. The agency's medical authorities said the experience in the European mines was an exception and could not be repeated in the United States. The medical officers also discounted the threat from radon and repeatedly said there was no evidence that a single miner had been harmed by excess radiation.
Dr. Archer, the principal investigator for the study for 23 years, said in an interview that influential researchers, including Dr. Wilhelm C. Hueper, a top scientist at the National Cancer Institute, was barred from traveling to the West after speaking in public about the problem. ''That was enough to scare me,'' Dr. Archer said. ''I wanted to stay out here and make studies. I had to officially take the position that we suspected that uranium miners may have health problems, and we were doing the study to find out what they were and how severe they would be. But we knew what they would be.''
In 1958, just as Dr. Archer, Mr. Holaday and their colleagues had predicted, four lung cancer deaths appeared among a group of 50 uranium miners under study. In 1959, Public Health Service epidemiologists identified five more lung cancer deaths, and in 1960 nine more miners died of lung cancer.
The rising toll, first discussed in public during a hearing of the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy in 1959, persuaded the Eisenhower Administration to bring the Governors of Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico and Utah to Denver in December 1960 in a little-publicized meeting. At Last, the Levels Of Radon Drop Off The states agreed to sharply increase their enforcement, and the Atomic Energy Commission agreed to pay for it. The documents show that radon levels in the mines began to steadily fall in the 1960's as a result.
In Congress, Representative Owens and Senator Hatch have proposed legislation to pay injured miners or survivors up to $100,000 in compensation. An estimated 500 families would be eligible. The Bush Administration opposes the measure.
Some Marysvale miners or survivors have already been compensated. In 1985, 32 miners and survivors settled for $1.1 million a lawsuit against the Foote Mineral Company, a Pennsylvania mining company that bought Vanadium Corporation of America. Awards ranged from $3,000 to $135,000.

GRAPHIC: photos: Rell Frederick (pg. A1); ''Looking at it with the standards of today, you could take the attitude that the miners were being used as guinea pigs, and we were essentially watching them die,'' said Dr. Victor E. Archer, principal investigator for study of uranium miners from 1956 until he retired from Public Health Service in 1979.; ''They started dying off here in the early 1960's,'' said Arden M. Higgens, a 56-year-old miner from Marysvale, Utah, who lost most of his right lung to cancer. (NYT/Keith Schneider) (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (55%); PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATOMIC ENERGY COMMISSION; PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;UTAH; ARIZONA; COLORADO; NEW MEXICO

SUBJECT: URANIUM; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; MINES AND MINING; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; RADIATION; LUNGS; CANCER; FANS; RESEARCH; ATOMIC WEAPONS URANIUM MINING (93%); CANCER (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LUNG CANCER (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MEN (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MINE WORKERS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); MINES & MINING (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); DESERTS (66%); LITIGATION (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH; ARCHER, VICTOR E (DR) ORRIN HATCH (55%); 



188 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: Reviving Affirmative-Action Issue, Court Will Decide on F.C.C. Rules

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
Setting the stage for a renewed debate over Government-sponsored affirmative action, the Supreme Court today agreed to decide the constitutionality of two Federal programs aimed at increasing the number of radio and television stations owned by minorities.
The possible effects of the two cases are greater than it might appear from the highly specialized world of broadcast regulation in which they arose.
For the first time since a conservative majority gained control of the Court's civil rights agenda, the Justices will consider what limits the Constitution places on the Federal Government in devising programs that give minorities a preference in competing for Government benefits.
 
Precedent in Rulings of 1970's
At issue are precedents dating from the late 1970's in which the Court held that increasing racial diversity is an important goal of public policy and that the Federal Government has greater discretion under the Constitution than do state or local governments to devise affirmative action programs. The cases give the Justices their first opportunity to apply at the Federal level their 6-to-3 ruling last year that declared unconstitutional a minority set-aside program in Richmond. 
The Bush Administration sought to avoid reopening the affirmative action debate, urging the Court in briefs filed last month not to hear either of the two broadcast cases. But on its first day back from a four-week recess, the Court announced it would rule on both. Furthermore, the Court ordered the lawyers to meet an accelerated timetable, with opening briefs due in a month rather than the usual six weeks, so that the cases will be ready for argument in March.
The cases concern two policies that the Federal Communications Commission adopted in 1978 in an effort to increase minority ownership of broadcast outlets, then about 1 percent.
One, known as the ''distress sale'' policy, was offered as an option to station owners whose broadcast licenses were in danger of not being renewed, for failure to adhere to regulations or other deficiencies. Ordinarily, loss of a license under these circumstances is a total economic loss for the license holder. But station owners were given the chance to sell their license to minority-owned businesses at 75 percent of market value, a considerable incentive.
The policy was challenged by a businessman in Hartford, Alan Shurberg, after the Federal Communications Commission rejected his application to operate a television station there in 1984. Instead, the commission permitted the company operating the station, Channel 18, to make a distress sale to the Astroline Communications Company, whose principal general partner is Hispanic.
Mr. Shurberg, who is white, argued that the policy violated his constitutional right to equal protection of the laws. Last spring, by a vote of 2 to 1, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit agreed, declaring the distress sale policy unconstitutional. The Supreme Court today agreed to hear Astroline's appeal, Astroline Communications v. Shurberg, No. 89-700. A month after the appellate panel struck down the distress sale policy, a separate panel of the same appeals court, also by a 2-to-1 vote, applied a different constitutional analysis and upheld the commission's other affirmative action policy.
Under this second policy, the commission awards what it calls a ''plus-factor'' to minority-owned companies when deciding among competing applications for new broadcast licenses. The plus-factor does not guarantee the minority applicant's success, because it is one of many factors that the commission weighs. In the case the Court accepted today, Metro Broadcasting Inc. v. F.C.C., No. 89-453, the commission chose a Hispanic-owned partnership, the Rainbow Broadcasting Company, to operate a new UHF television station in Orlando, Fla.
Rainbow beat out two other minority applicants. The losing applicants appealed. In upholding the program, the appeals court stressed that the program was flexible and did not impose a quota.
The commission's affirmative action policy has been the focus of a prolonged dispute between Congress and the executive branch. The policy was adopted in President Jimmy Carter's Administration. Under the Reagan Administration, which opposed many affirmative action programs, the commission disavowed the policy and let it be known that they planned to dismantle the programs.
But in 1987, as part of an appropriations bill, Congress forbade the commission to spend money to re-examine or repeal the policy. That prohibition has been renewed several times and is still in effect.
In upholding the affirmative action policy in the Metro Broadcasting case, the appeals court panel found it significant that Congress had given its ''express approval'' to the policy.
In an important 1980 decision, Fullilove v. Klutznick, the Supreme Court upheld a Federal public works program that set aside 10 percent of the available funds for minority contractors. The Court held that Congress had special authority under the Constitution to enact such programs.
Last year, the Court declared unconstitutional a similar contracting program that had been put in place by the City Council of Richmond. At issue since then has been whether that ruling, Richmond v. Croson, was an end to Federal affirmative action programs as well. The new cases give the Court its first opportunity to re-examine the 1980 precedent.
The commission's affirmative action program has increased minority ownership of broadcast outlets only slightly. Of more than 9,000 broadcast license sales since 1978, only a few dozen were distress sales to minority-owned companies. The low figure is due in part to the anti-regulatory attitude that prevailed in the Reagan Administration. Since very few license holders were ever threatened with losing their licenses, few needed to sell at distress prices.
The Court acted today in another case concerning a commission policy. Without comment, the Court refused to review the commission's repeal of the fairness doctrine, which required broadcasters to air a variety of views on controversial topics. The repeal was upheld last year by the Federal appeals court here. (Syracuse Peace Council v. F.C.C., No. 89-312.) The fairness doctrine is popular in Congress, which will consider legislation this year to force the commission to reinstate it. Such a bill passed both Houses in 1987 but was vetoed by President Ronald Reagan.
Other opinions today included the following: National Guard The Court agreed to decide whether the Federal Government has the constitutional authority to force Governors to permit the mobilization of state National Guard units to active duty overseas.
At issue, in an appeal by Gov. Rudy Perpich of Minnesota, is a 1986 Federal law known as the Montgomery Amendment that prohibits governors from witholding their consent for such mobilization.
The amendment was passed when several Governors were objecting to their units being sent on Central American maneuvers in aid of the Nicaraguan rebels. Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts unsuccessfully challenged the amendment two years ago.
The legal argument of Governor Perpich and the other Governors is that the Constitution's ''militia clause,'' in Section 8 of Article I, which reserves to the states ''the authority of training the militia,'' makes the Federal legislation unconstitutional. (The term ''militia'' is generally understood to mean a state's National Guard units.) A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, which includes Minnesota, first agreed with the Governor and invalidated the amendment.
But the full 10-judge court then re-examined the issue and upheld the legislation under the constitutional authority of Congress to ''raise and support armies.'' In part, the constitutional dispute reflects the fact the National Guard is a Federal-state hybrid in which members have a dual enlistment in both the state and Federal service. (Perpich v. Dept. of Defense, No. 89-542.) Union's Duty The Court agreed to decide whether workers injured on the job may sue their labor unions for negligence in failing to carry out the safety provisions of a collective bargaining agreement.
The case, United Steelworkers v. Rawson, No. 89-322, is an outgrowth of a 1972 fire in the Sunshine silver mine in Kellogg, Idaho, in which 91 miners died. Under the miners' labor contract, three union representatives sat on a six-member safety committee at the mine.
After the fire, the families of four miners sued the union on the ground that it had undertaken to protect its members but negligently failed to do so. The lawsuit has yet to go to trial, but the Idaho Supreme Court finally permitted it to do so in a ruling last year.
The legal question is whether state courts may permit a lawsuit of this type, which would not be permitted in Federal court under principles of Federal labor law. Under Federal law, a union that is alleged to have breached its ''duty of fair representation'' of its members may be sued for dealing with its members in bad faith, but not for negligence.
 
Libel Judgment
Without comment, the Court refused to hear an appeal by an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation whose $25 million libel suit against Peter Mattheissen, the author of a book about violence on the Pine Ridge Indian reservation in South Dakota in the 1970's, was dismissed by a Federal appeals court.
The agent, David Price, was also unsuccessful in his suit against Viking Penguin Inc., publisher of Mr. Mattheissen's book, ''In the Spirit of Crazy Horse.'' The book focused on a 1975 shoot-out in which two F.B.I. agents and an Indian were killed. Mr. Mattheissen gave a sympathetic portrayal of the Indian cause and an unsympathetic portrait of Mr. Price.
In dismissing the suit, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit said the statements challenged by Mr. Price were constitutionally protected either as opinion or as ''neutral reportage,'' in which the author transmitted the views of others. In his appeal, Price v. Viking Penguin, No. 89-741, Mr. Price argued that the appeals court had created an ''insurmountable hurdle'' for plaintiffs in libel cases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FCC CO LTD (58%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC); ASTROLINE COMMUNICATIONS CO; NATIONAL GUARD (US); STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA, UNITED (US; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HARTFORD (CONN); CENTRAL AMERICA; NORTH DAKOTA

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; RADIO; CONSTITUTIONS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; LABOR; STATIONS AND NETWORKS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LICENSES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STATES (US); GOVERNORS (US); INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; LABOR UNIONS; CONTRACTS; LIBEL AND SLANDER; INDIANS, AMERICAN; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (95%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (78%); LAWYERS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); LIBEL & SLANDER (59%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SHURBERG, ALAN; PRICE, DAVID; MATTHEISSEN, PETER DAVID E PRICE (52%); 



189 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: LARGE BANKS CUT KEY LENDING RATE TO 10% FROM 10 1/2%

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The nation's largest banks yesterday reduced the prime rate to 10 percent, from 10 1/2 percent, the first cut in the closely watched lending rate since July.
The First National Bank of Chicago led the way, and was quickly followed by Citibank, the nation's largest, and other major banks around the country. The cut in the prime, which analysts had expected for nearly two months, comes amid widespread signs of a weakening economy. Analysts expect the Federal Reserve to continue reducing short-term rates in an effort to prevent the economy from slipping into a recession. 
 
'Process of Improvement'
''By itself, the change in the prime rate is not going to change loan demand or do much for the economy, but it is part of the process of improvement,'' said James E. Annable, senior vice president at First National. ''What the economy needs is more spending, and to get that we expect that the Federal Reserve will be reducing interest rates, perhaps not right away, but not too far in the future.''
The prime rate is a benchmark used by banks to set interest rates on a wide range of borrowing by individuals and small and medium-sized businesses. About half of the $100 billion of home equity loans outstanding have interest rates pegged to the prime. And interest rates on many automobile loans and credit-card borrowings are also adjusted according to changes in the prime.
The cut in the rate will affect these loans over the next few months, easing somewhat the debt burden of millions of Americans and freeing funds that might be spent to keep the economy growing.
 
Lower Rates Expected
The lowering of the prime rate caused the dollar to fall sharply against the West German mark and other European currencies. Traders said the drop in the prime was a reminder that American interest rates are expected to head lower, which will make the dollar less attractive relative to other currencies.[Page D16.] Although for weeks analysts have been predicting a cut in the prime rate, large banks did not move quickly because of erratic moves in short-term rates in recent months. After falling rapidly about the time of the last cut in the prime, in late July, when the rate was reduced from 11% to 10 1/2 percent, some rates increased during the autumn and only recently fell back to the levels of late July and early August.
Several bankers who asked not to be identified added that the prime rate was slow to fall because of their desire to help the banks' earnings at a time when costs are rising in other parts of their business. Some costs, like growing losses on loans for construction and real estate development, have emerged in the last year. But others, like the rising portion of bank deposits held in interest-bearing accounts rather than interest-free checking accounts, have been under way for several years.
How much lower the prime rate falls in coming months depends on declines in other short-term interest rates that are controlled by the Federal Reserve Board. Since May, the Federal Reserve has gradually eased monetary policy to reduce short-term rates by about one and a half percentage points.
''The Fed will be willing to ease some, to guard against the risk of a more severe downturn in the economy,'' said Donald Fine, chief market strategist at Chase Manhattan Bank. He estimated that the Fed might push down the overnight rate for bank loans in the Federal funds market to 8 percent by the end of the month and perhaps to 7 3/4 percent afterward, from around 8 1/4 percent now. But larger, more rapid moves to reduce interest rates are not likely, he said, unless new evidence emerges that the downturn in the automobile industry is spreading to other sectors of the economy.
Without increases in unemployment, many economists said they do not expect consumer and business spending to fall enough to produce a full-blown recession. They said the most recent employment report, for December, which showed a gain of only 142,000 workers on payrolls, less than expected, coupled with a further decline in manufacturing jobs was a sign of weakness but not recession. The unemployment rate was stable at 5.3 percent.
The December numbers were weak enough to cause some economists to predict that the gross national product in the fourth quarter will show no growth. When the G.N.P. data are announced on Jan. 26, some analysts expect that pressure on the Fed to ease monetary policy and reduce short-term interest rates will be even greater.
 
'In a Mild Recession'
Other analysts foresee spreading signs of economic weakness, with greater declines in short-term interest rates.
Gary Ciminero, chief economist at Fleet/Norstar Inc., a banking company based in Providence, R.I., said, ''The economy is in a mild recession, with flat to lower growth in both the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year.'' He said the January employment statistics, which will be published in early February, ''will be disastrous,'' with declines in the payrolls of auto makers of 120,000 workers, plus payroll cuts at companies that supply car makers.
The Fed will respond to the weaker employment statistics by reducing short-term interest rates a percentage point or more, Mr. Ciminero said, bringing the prime rate down to 9 percent by late spring or early summer.

GRAPHIC: graph of prime lending rate from '86 to '90 (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: CREDIT; RATES; PRIME RATE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRIME RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL



190 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Falls Short On Its Debt Plan For Third World

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
In the 10 months since it was announced, the Bush Administration's strategy for easing third world debt has fallen well short of its stated objective.
The strategy called for cutting the commercial bank debt of 39 countries, chiefly in Latin America and Africa, by 20 percent. Had it reached that goal, roughly $100 billion of debt would have been eliminated.
To date, a final debt reduction package has not been concluded with any country. An agreement that would reduce Mexico's debt by $7.5 billion is expected next month and progress has been made toward financing packages in Costa Rica, the Philippines, Chile, Venezuela and Morocco. 
The stakes are especially high for the 414 million people of Latin America, whose governments and banks hold about two-thirds of the total $1.3 trillion debt.
 
Per-Capita Output Down 7%
Saddled with debt they could not pay, Latin countries saw per-capita output fall by 7 percent in the decade, according to the Inter-American Development Bank, after an increase of 40 percent in the previous decade.
Today countries like Argentina and Brazil are struggling to fend off economic collapse. In Buenos Aires, for example, prices fell 53 percent yesterday when the stock market reopened for the first time since Dec. 28. [Page D1.] The plan introduced in March by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady offered to forgive debt to countries willing to undertake tough reforms intended to foster a market-oriented economy.
''I think there was a hope that there would be a much more rapid and definitive conclusion of debt agreements with a large number of countries, and that hasn't happened,'' said Karin Lissakers, professor of international banking at the Columbia University Graduate School of International Affairs.
She said this ''means that uncertainty continues to hang over the debtor countries and their economic prospects.''
Yet for the country the Administration has most wanted to help, Mexico, the plan has been a boon, spurring a sharp decline in interest rates, repatriation of private capital and a welcome increase in foreign investment.
The improved economic situation in Mexico and the progress in other nations have led some American and international officials to agree that while the strategy has been slow to take hold, it has begun to work.
''In view of the magnitude of the changes that have to be made, I think that progress of the Brady plan has been pretty reasonable,'' said Stanley Fischer, chief economist of the World Bank.
 
Mexican Pact Expected Soon
Charles H. Dallara, Assistant Treasury Secretary for monetary affairs, and William R. Rhodes of Citibank, who heads an advisory group representing 450 bank creditors to Mexico, predicted in separate interviews that a Mexican package would come together within the next month.
Such a package would cut $7.5 billion from Mexico's $48.5 billion of commercial bank debt, and with reductions in interest rates on some debt as well, would knock nearly $2 billion from the $9 billion a year that Mexico pays in interest.
''We expect to have the documentation out within a week and a signing before month's end,'' said Mr. Rhodes, the chairman of the restructuring committee at Citibank. ''Virtually all of Mexico's 450 current bank creditors are participating. There are basically no free riders.''
Treasury and banking officials said there was a $300 million financing gap that still had to be filled before the Mexico deal could be concluded.
 
No Subsidies to Be Sought
But officials involved in the negotiations said that the banks and Mexico would split the difference and that in no way would American taxpayers be called on to subsidize the agreement. The Wall Street Journal reported today that a Treasury plan to sell bonds to assist Mexico would cost American taxpayers at least $500 million.
''At this stage we're maintaining a close monitoring of the situation,'' said a senior Treasury official who asked not to be identified, ''but the Mexicans and bank leadership are doing their job to try to bring the final deal together.''
The introduction of the Brady plan reflected an acknowledgement that the earlier strategy, developed in 1985 by James A. Baker 3d, then the Treasury Secretary, had failed. Mr. Baker's plan called for additional bank lending to countries engaging in a full-scale economic overhaul.
Although the Baker plan bought time for economic reforms to work in some countries and for banks to shore up their reserves and capital against bad loans, it led to ever-mounting debt that seemed to be preventing a return to economic growth.
 
Requirement for Growth
The new Treasury approach marked Washington's first official recognition that the $1.3 trillion third world debt, nearly twice the total in 1982, when the debt crisis began, had to be cut back for growth to resume.
Recovering from hip surgery, Mr. Brady has been out of Washington for the last month and could not be interviewed. But in comments in September before the annual meeting of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, he noted that the plan had generated ''improving expectations,'' which reversed what had earlier been a ''growing sense of hopelessness'' about the debt situation. Now he said these expectations had to be ''tempered by realism.''
Assisted by two deputies, David C. Mulford and Mr. Dallara, Mr. Brady worked out a program to accelerate the pace of voluntary, market-based debt reduction packages that banks and governments were already engaged in.
Most banks felt that debtor countries had resources to repay their loans and should not be let off the hook. Those willing to engage in limited debt reduction transactions chafed at the steepness of the discounts.
 
Partial Guarantees Offered
To induce banks to sell more of their loans, the plan offers partial financial guarantees on the debt that remains, theoretically reducing the risk of future trouble.
Over all, about $30 billion of financial support from the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and Japan backs guarantees aimed at cutting $70 billion off the $350 billion that commercial banks are owed by the 39 developing countries.
The Bush Administration, strengthening economic ties with Mexico, hoped that Mexico could stimulate its economic growth if its debt burden could be eased.
While the July accord has already had some of the desired economic results, the deal is still not complete. The reason for the extended delay goes to the heart of the plan's weakness, bankers said.
Banks were given an option of accepting a 35 percent reduction in principal owed, a similar cut in interest payments, or making new loans to Mexico. Most banks chose the first two options.
 
Supplement Funds
The bank money was to supplement $7 billion from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund as collateral to back debt reduction. But because not enough banks were willing to make new loans, the collateral turned out to be insufficient to complete the deal.
Horst Schulmann, managing director of the Institute of International Finance, which represents 200 United States and foreign financial institutions, warned that if the Brady plan led to a situation in which private creditors would no longer provide new money, the debtor countries ''inevitably will become wards of the taxpayers of the rich countries.''
Another point at issue is the arm-twisting by the Treasury to get the banks to increase their loans to Mexico. Bankers said they cannot justify putting money at risk just because the the United States Government is concerned.
Treasury officials said they saw no inconsistency in asking the banking community as a whole to look at putting up new money. As one Treasury official commented, ''Different banks have different circumstances and appetites.'' Citibank, citing its optimism over Mexico's future, was one of the banks that chose the loan option.
 
Treasury Cajoling
Treasury officials conceded that there had been some ''cajoling'' of the banks, but noted that this was merely to point to pending Congressional legislation that would penalize banks that do not participate in debt reduction arrangements.
While they may complain, banks probably have little choice but to cooperate with the Government, most analysts believe.
''The debt for all these countries cannot be serviced, except possibly for Venezuela,'' said Christopher T. Mahoney, vice president of Moody's Investors Service. ''So it has to be reduced one way or the other. It has to come out of either government or bank pockets. Governments are not going to give the money, so it has to come out of the pockets of the banks.''

GRAPHIC: graph of third world debt from '82 to '90 (Source: World Bank) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); AFRICA (92%); MOROCCO (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%); PHILIPPINES (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO

SUBJECT: CREDIT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FINANCES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H NICHOLAS F BRADY (60%); JAMES A BAKER (58%); 



191 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-15
 
The plan for easing third world debt proposed by the Bush Administration 10 months ago has fallen short of its goal to cut the commercial bank debt of 39 nations by 20 percent. Page A1

 
Washington pressure on El Salvador was partly responsible for President Cristiani's statement linking soldiers to the slaying of six Jesuit priests, U.S. officials said. Future aid could hinge on satisfying Congress that the investigation is progressing. A1

 
Obstacles still block prosecution in Salvadoran slayings A10

Foreign press aids bombed newspaper in Colombia A11

Stock prices plunge and inflation soars in Argentina D1

 
Eastern Europe still needs Comecon, Moscow declared. Although the faltering trade bloc has ''no dynamism,'' a Foreign Ministry spokesman said the association could yet be repaired. A13 
 
 
A rise in sabotage in Azerbaijan, the Soviet Republic rocked by ethnic conflict, has been reported by the Soviet press agency Tass, which said bridges and communications links had been bombed. A13

 
Baker to visit Moscow next month to discuss arms pact A13

 
The Communist parties in the West are struggling to survive the collapse of Eastern European governments. Communists in France, Portugal, Spain and Italy are redefining their strategies to retain relevancy. A1

 
East German opposition wary of breakup of secret police A13

 
Renewed ethnic divisions in Bulgaria have set off anti-Government rallies, strikes and racial tensions born of centuries-old hatred between Bulgarians and the Turkish minority. A12

 
The first military trials in Rumania of members of the state securityforces caught shooting at civilians during the uprising have begun, the new Government announced. A12

 
Full-blooded candor restored, and evils not of Dracula unfold A12

 
Nelson Mandela expects to be freed within weeks. The jailed leader of the African National Congress told his wife, Winnie Mandela, to begin preparations for his release. A3

 
Reports of massacres in Liberia and a ''scorched earth'' policy by the Liberian Army sent into Nimba Province to crush an insurgency are flowing from the nation with the flood of refugees. A3

 
Shiite Muslim factions allow a 7-hour truce in Lebanon A8

 
Reports of a Khmer Rouge attack on Cambodia's second largest city appear to be exaggerated, Western and Asian diplomats said. The Government said there had been only scattered fighting in the province. A5

 
Missile attack on Tokyo royalty A6

 
NATIONAL A14-20
 
The prime lending rate was reduced to 10 percent, from 10 1/2 percent, by the nation's largest banks. It was the first cut in the closely watched lending rate since July. A1

 
United Airlines parent to consider recapitalization D1

 
Gen. Manuel Noriega will be moved from a holding cell in Miami to a more secure prison, possibly the Federal penitentiary in Atlanta. A1

 
Noriega prosecution may hinge on the testimony of only a few A14

U.S. military tells calmer story of woman's combat role A14

O.A.S. faults U.S. for search of Nicaraguan Embassy A14

The Pentagon searches for missions to justify outlays A14

 
Federal affirmative action programs will be considered again by the Supreme Court, which agreed to decide the constitutionality of programs intended to increase the number of minority-owned radio and television stations. A1

 
The hazards of exposure to uranium were kept secret from thousands of miners, officials said. The Government, which secretly studied miners' higher rate of cancer, pursued a policy that put production ahead of saftey in the nuclear weapons industry. A1

 
The legislative battle of 1990 opened as President Bush renewed his demand for a cut in the capital gains tax and proposed a bill that would allow grain farmers more choice in which crops they grow. A16

 
Mayor Marion Barry of Washington brushed aside comments attributed to him in a newspaper interview in which he boasted of his sexual prowess, criticized Jewish supporters and mocked reports the Rev. Jesse Jackson would run for Mayor. A16

 
New details, but no answers, in Boston slaying and suicide A17

Studies rate U.S. and states on meeting the needs of children A17

Weighty competition for annual frog jump A17

Amtrak revenue reaches an all-time high A18

Northwest is hit by strong storms A19

Jet whose engine fell off had repeated repairs A20

 
REGIONAL B1-4
 
Water main breaks in Manhattan left 5,000 West Village and Chelsea residents in 450 buildings without gas service. Many restaurants closed or could only serve cold food. Officials said it was one of the worst water main breaks ever. B1

 
The new Transit Authority president is Alan Kiepper, a native New Yorker who has been whipping the Houston transit system into one of the nation's most improved. B1

 
Phone company executive selected for top SUNY post B3

 
A new credit card law in New York allows consumers to refuse to put their addresses or phone numbers on sales slips when making purchases by credit card. The law, the first of its kind, took effect yesterday. B1

 
An actress duped news organizations in New York City by claiming she won the $35 million Lotto jackpot from Saturday night's lottery drawing. B1

 
A detention center for immigrants, near Kennedy International Airport, has been opposed by its neighbors, who say the center, run by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, threatens the community. B2

 
At AIDS trial, doctor's lawyer blames hospital for infection B3

Dinkins to cut spending by more than $200 million B3

Councilman apologizes for remarks on minority children B3

A 50-year sentence in the Connecticut wood-chipper case B2

Unexpected storm drops first snow of the year on New York B3

 
Seven key department store groups in the New York area remain in the fight for customers and survival after a watershed year in which some failing retailers were sorted from the more resilient. D1

 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
SCIENCE TIMES
 
Giant telescope is to take its first look skyward C1

 
Arts/Entertainment
 
Another museum in trouble C13

Choreographers of Man-Made C13

Judge rules in favor of Buchwald C14

Music: Third Schubertiade C13

 
FASHION B6

 
SPORTS
 
Student-athletes may receive aid based on their family income, even if they fall short of academic requirements for athletic scholarships, the National Collegiate Athletic Association voted.
A1

 
Football: Simms faces a tryout B7

Giants are good but Rams are better B9

Hockey: Penguins top Rangers B7

Devils lose on late goal B9

Flyers put politics aside B9

 
OBITUARIES D22-23

 
Harry Shapiro, anthropologist D22

Bronko Nagurski, football player D23

Joe Robbie, Miami Dolphins owner D23

Horace Stoneham, moved Giants to San Francisco D23

Terry-Thomas, actor D23

Edward Ennis, former A.C.L.U. head D22

 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A22

 
Seductive, dangerous tax cut
Brave stand in El Salvador
Father Ritter's slow bleed
Hack politics, public education
 
Letters A22

 
Flora Lewis: Year of elections A23

Oscar Arias Sanchez: Panama, without an army A23

Jeffrey F. Newman: Children in the groves A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LIBERIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); BULGARIA (89%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); SPAIN (79%); ASIA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRISONS (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); PRIME RATES (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MILITARY COURTS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); REFUGEES (71%); RELIGION (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (50%); 

PERSON: MANUEL NORIEGA (56%); 



192 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Refugees Report Liberian 'Scorched Earth' Drive on Rebels

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Jan. 8

 BODY:
Refugees fleeing fighting in northeastern Liberia have told of a ''scorched earth'' policy by the Liberian Army, sent into Nimba Province to put down an insurgency that started there two weeks ago.
The refugees told a reporter for Agence France-Presse that the army had entered villages in the northeastern region with mounted machine guns and opened automatic fire.
Those who managed to escape across the river into the neighboring Ivory Coast said they had seen friends and relatives shot by the soldiers. The villages were then burned and terrified inhabitants chased into the bush, the refugees said. 
Ivory Coast officials have said up to 10,000 Liberian refugees have arrived in the Ivory Coast, but other reports have put the figures much lower.
Fighting began on Dec. 24, when insurgents opposed to the West African country's leader, Gen. Samuel K. Doe, entered Nimba, the site of previous rebellions against General Doe.
 
Led by Ex-Minister
The rebellion is apparently led by Charles Taylor, a former minister in the Doe Government who fell into disfavor and fled the country after being charged with corruption. A man claiming to be Mr. Taylor phoned the BBC a week ago and said the rebels were seeking to overthrow General Doe.
Mr. Taylor said his forces numbered 1,000. The Doe Government has said there are 200 insurgents.
The Government has said the rebel forces destroyed two towns, Kahntle and Butuo, in the initial incursion.
General Doe, who as a master sergeant came to power in a violent coup in 1980, warned a rally in the capital, Monrovia, on Saturday that if anyone was caught harboring rebels, ''we will treat you as a rebel.''
''We will carry out a massive search,'' he said. ''Furnish us with information if you want to be on the safe side.''
General Doe, who accused the Ivory Coast of harboring the insurgents, warned his neighbor that Liberian forces would pursue the rebels back over the border.
Gen. Edward Smith, in charge of crushing the uprising, was quoted by Radio Elwa in Liberia as saying that among the more than 200 men, women and children killed by the rebels were 7 people shot while praying in a mosque.
 
Prominent Figure Killed
While Monrovia was apparently unaffected by the fighting in the northeast, there was concern that the killing of the great-grandson of a former Liberian President on Thursday might be connected with the events in Nimba.
The victim, Robert Phillipa, found beheaded with his wrists cut at his home, was one of the main defendants in the 1985 treason trial that followed a coup attempt against General Doe.
Liberia, founded by freed American slaves in 1847 and long run by their descendants, has been the closest ally of the United States in West Africa. The relationship grew especially warm during the Reagan Administration, when General Doe received nearly $500 million in aid from Washington, making Liberia the largest per-capita recipient of American aid in sub-Saharan Africa.
A United States military communications station and transmitters for Voice of America broadcasts to Africa are situated in Liberia. It is the only country in West Africa where United States military planes can land with just 24 hours' notice.
But Congress has become increasingly disenchanted with the Doe Government, particularly its refusal to clean up a corrupt economy or markedly improve its human rights record. Military aid has been steadily decreased to zero over the last several years, and economic aid was cut to $31.5 million last year.

GRAPHIC: map of Nimba, Liberia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: LIBERIA (98%); COTE D'IVOIRE (94%); KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (77%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBERIA

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); REFUGEES (92%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COUPS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); SHOOTINGS (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); TREASON (72%); SLAVERY (71%); CORRUPTION (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); 

PERSON: TAYLOR, CHARLES (LIBERIA); PERLEZ, JANE SAMUEL K DOE (94%); CHARLES TAYLOR (66%); 



193 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: THE U.S. AND PANAMA: THE MILITARY;
Pentagon Looks for Ways To Stave Off Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
As the annual ritual of presenting and selling the Defense Department budget to Congress approaches, the Pentagon is searching for new ways to help justify its spending plans.
Government and private experts agree that the threat of war with the Soviet Union is diminishing. As a result, the nation's military services argue that a portion of the Pentagon budget in the 1990's must be devoted to combating drugs and being prepared to bring American military power to bear in the third world.
Specifically, Pentagon officials say politically popular actions like the invasion of Panama and the dispatch of a Navy aircraft carrier to the coast of Colombia to detect planes carrying drugs are harbinger of a new era and arguments against sharp cuts in the Pentagon budget. 
In addition, the officials say, the Soviet military forces, as now constituted, continue to represent a formidable opponent that must be matched, even if the prospects of a confrontation are at a low point.
 
'A Real Soul-Searching'
Representative Les Aspin, the Wisconsin Democrat who is chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said in an interview last week that only massive repression in the Soviet Union and a complete change in its foreign and security policies could reverse the momentum in Congress toward cuts in the military budget.
''The military,'' Representative Aspin said, ''is going through a real soul-searching. They are looking for a mission.''
''I know the Pentagon thinks that Panama is going to change the outlook on defense spending,'' he continued. ''They're looking at this as a way to argue for a robust defense budget. In fact, it's marginal. I don't think it will change the size of the budget, but it may change the shape.''
Indeed, some independent analysts said in interviews that the Army's success in Panama, using mobile, lightly armed troops, suggests the possibility of larger troop cuts from a military largely trained and armed for a strike in Europe by Soviet troops using conventional weapons.
Pentagon officials disagree. One official said Panama is a good example for the budget debate because ''it proves we're worth the investment.'' The Panama operation, another official said, will be an important illustration when Defense Secretary Dick Cheney explains his new vision for the military.
Pentagon officials, who all spoke on condition of anonymity, noted that although the Soviet threat may be lessening, countries like Iran, Iraq and Syria have begun an ambitious arms buildup that includes ballistic missiles and chemical weapons. Syria, for example, has 4,000 modern battle tanks and a formidable air force, while Iraq late last year tested its first intermediate-range missile.
 
New Uses for Old Weapons
As the United States reorients its military thinking, Pentagon officials see new uses for old weapons. Battleships intended for shore bombardment in a conventional war might be used to launch a cruise missile strike at terrorist training bases, they said.
The Bush Administration's budget for the 1991 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1, asks Congress for $295 billion, about $4 billion more than was approved this year but about $6 billion, or 2 percent, less than what would be needed to keep up with inflation. The Administration is expected to propose its budget to Congress on Jan. 29.
Despite Presidential requests for more money each year, Congress has reduced the Pentagon's budget by an average of 2 percent, after accounting for inflation, each year since 1985.
Senator William S. Cohen, a Maine Republican who is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, warned that the Pentagon will have to do more than explain the success of the Panama operation to deflect the pressure for deeper cuts.
 
'What Is Driving the Strategy?'
''We want to know what is driving the strategy,'' Senator Cohen said. ''Is there a conceptual rationale to support why we arrived on a 2 percent cut? If there's not, we're going to have trouble on the Senate floor because some will argue, 'If you can accept 2 percent, why not 4 percent?' ''
Representative Dave McCurdy, an Oklahoma Democrat who serves on the Armed Services Committee, said in an interview today that the real test will be how Mr. Cheney presents the case for the Pentagon's expensive, strategic weapons systems, like the B-2 bomber.
''If he says we need to have the B-2 to be secure as a nation, I think he will lose,'' he said.
The lessons of Panama are being interpreted in various ways.
Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said at a news conference last week that he believed Panama was not instructive as Congress considers the future direction of the American military.
''It's unique in the sense that we had people on the ground,'' he said. ''We had bases there. We had 13,000 people permanently deployed there. We knew where all the facilities were. We knew exactly what we were facing in terms of the materiel and equipment. We had the ability of getting forces in there in advance.''
Senator Nunn said the Panama operation had two clear lessons: the need for better intelligence gathering and the usefulness of lighter weapons. He noted that the Army moved its older, lighter tanks into Panama rather than the more modern M-1 battle tank.
 
Potential for Deep Cuts Is Seen
Lawrence Korb, a Pentagon official in the Reagan Administration who is now at Brookings Institution, a research organization in Washington, said the success of lightly armored Army troops in Panama points up the potential for more far-reaching troop cuts than the Pentagon envisions.
Mr. Korb, who has emerged as a prominent advocate of budget stringency, said: ''This was the biggest American military operation since Vietnam. How many troops did we use? Twenty-five thousand. If that's the case, why do we need more than 1.5 million men and women in uniform? Why do we need a B-2 bomber? We didn't even use an aircraft carrier in Panama or the M-1 tanks.''
In response, a Pentagon official said the troops sent to Panama were appropriate for that operation and that the military still needs to have on hand the firepower to counter countries with heavy armament. He said several countries, including the Soviet military, retain such capabilities.
As the focus shifts from the Soviet threat to the problems of instability in the third world, the military services, particularly the Navy, have moved to gain a share of the money from the drug interdiction programs, which are one of the only growth areas in the Federal budget.
Mr. Korb recalled: ''I couldn't get the services to do anything. Now that there's no Soviet Army to speak of, people look around and see it has become much more palatable.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); SYRIA (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; PANAMA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); DRUG POLICY (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); 

PERSON: ASPIN, LES (REPR); ENGELBERG, STEPHEN DICK CHENEY (58%); 



194 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT OPENS LEGISLATIVE DRIVE

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Jan. 8

 BODY:
President Bush opened the legislative battle of 1990 today, attacking ''demagogues'' in Congress, renewing his demand for a cut in the capital gains tax and calling for a new five-year farm bill that would allow grain farmers more choice in deciding what crops to produce.
Mr. Bush's comments marked the start of a strong White House effort to use the President's popularity, in the aftermath of the Panama attack, to sell the Administration's legislative program. Congress reconvenes Jan. 23, and White House officials have said that issues like a lower capital gains tax rate will be top priorities on the President's agenda.
Mr. Bush's visit here, where he toured Disney World's Epcot Center, was his first trip out of Washington since he returned from his New Year's vacation in Texas. He made scant mention of the invasion of Panama as he spoke to the farm group in this city some 250 miles north of Miami, where Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega is being held before a trial on Federal drug charges. 
Mr. Bush's remarks expressed a lingering frustration about his troubled relationship with Congress in 1989.
 
Pledge of Cooperation
He repeated his Inaugural Day promise to extend ''the hand of cooperation'' to lawmakers. ''I put my hand out to Congress, to the Democratic majority, and reminded us all that the American people did not send us to Washington to bicker,'' he said.
''Now a year has passed; a new year has begun,'' Mr. Bush went on.
''We are always willing to listen to ideas and alternatives,'' he said. ''We are not willing to compromise on fundamental principles.''
As he did in 1989, Mr. Bush signaled that a cut in the capital gains tax rate would be a top priority this year. Last year the House of Representatives passed a cut in the tax rate, to 19.6 percent from 33 percent, but the Senate killed the bill in procedural wrangling over another bill reducing the Federal budget deficit.
Although Congressional leaders who fought the cuts last year have more or less conceded that they do not have the votes to block them this year, and Mr. Bush seems likely to prevail on the issue in 1990, he grew angry and punched his hand in the air today when he raised the subject.
 
'The Fight Isn't Over Yet'
''For us to reap the full benefits of a competitive economy, we must cut the capital gains tax rate,'' the President said. ''The fight isn't over yet, and I am sick and tired of the demagogues who call this a tax cut for the rich.''
Mr. Bush has long argued that cutting the tax rate on profits from sales of things like stocks or real estate would bring widespread benefit to taxpayers, increase employment and generally give the economy a lift. The proposal is popular among farmers, for whom land sales are a critical issue, but by far most capital gains go to the well-to-do.
Mr. Bush also complained that Congress had not acted on his proposals on amending the Clean Air Act and stiffening penalties against drug dealers.
''Brave citizens everywhere are standing up to crime,'' he said. ''And it's a time for Congress to act quickly and responsibly because the war on drugs and crime will not wait.''
After the speech, Mr. Bush toured the Land and Living Seas pavilions at Epcot Center. As about 150 tourists applauded loudly, he watched two scuba divers playing with two dolphins at the aquatic exhibit and spoke by radio to a third diver. ''Thanks a lot,'' he said. ''Good luck in there.''
 
Signal on Bush Policy
The address to the Farm Bureau conference here was Mr. Bush's first speech on domestic policy in the new year and contained his first major statement on farm policy, which opened the debate over the law that will be drafted this year to replace 1985 legislation that expires in 1990.
The President touched on the three major points of controversy in the new bill: flexibility in crop production, efforts to increase ground water quality and regulation of the use of pesticides and growth-enhancing chemicals. Mr. Bush seemed to signal more flexibility on those issues than had been the policy in the Reagan Administration, but he offered no specifics to his audience.
On agricultural policy, Mr. Bush sounded a generally upbeat tone, talking of the accomplishments of the 1980's, of declining surpluses of produce, the returning of fallow land to production and increases in net farm income. But a videotape shown just before he took the stage painted a bleaker picture. In the tape, farmer after farmer interviewed during the conference complained of high interest rates, low prices for their produce and ''depression'' in the farming industry in general.
Mr. Bush pledged to work for a comprehensive, innovative farm bill, although he drew an appreciative laugh when he joked that ''getting a farm bill through Congress is like milking a bull.''
 
Goal of Farm Flexibility
Touching on the primary areas of dispute in the new farm legislation, Mr. Bush said, ''We must have market-oriented farm policies that allow producers more flexibility to decide what crops to grow.''
But he did not say exactly how he would amend rules in the 1985 law that penalize farmers who change their grain crops from year to year.
Mr. Bush also said he believes ''productive agriculture and a sound environment can be compatible, especially in terms of water quality,'' and that ''we must also make sure that all Americans are confident in the safety of our food supply.''
But he did not say how far he was willing to go in regulating the use of chemicals in agriculture.
Mr. Bush also said Florida citrus growers, whose crops were badly damaged by a recent frost, could count on the Department of Agriculture ''to be in there fighting with you.'' He did not offer the orange growers in the region where he spoke any money to help overcome the effects of the frost.

GRAPHIC: photo: President Bush viewed peanut embryos through a microscope in the Land pavilion at Disney World's Epcot Center after delivering his first speech this year on domestic policy to a Farm Bureau conference. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; AGRICULTURE TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); BUDGETS (73%); GRAIN FARMING (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (52%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 



195 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: 2 Studies Rate U.S. and States On Meeting Children's Needs

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
The Federal Government and 44 states are not providing adequate programs to help children in need and the nation is falling behind other industrialized countries in reducing infant mortality, the Children's Defense Fund said today.
The Washington-based fund, which lobbies for social welfare programs, said the United States was trailing most other industrialized nations in categories like immunization against polio and other childhood diseases and preventing teen-age pregnancy. It issued its 1990 report today.
The study also ranked the 50 states and the District of Columbia according to their efforts in child welfare. 
 
Similar Report Is Issued
Another Washington-based group, the Center for the Study of Social Policy, made public a similar ranking today. The center is a research group that does no lobbying.
Both studies listed Massachusetts, Connecticut and Vermont as making the greatest effort for children. The fund listed Maine, Minnesota and Delaware as making at least an ''adequate'' effort. The center ranked New Hampshire and Wisconsin among the top states.
The lowest ranking on the fund's list were New Mexico, South Dakota, Kansas, Idaho and Colorado. The center ranked as lowest Louisiana, Mississippi, Georgia, Alabama and the District of Columbia.
New Jersey ranked near the top on both lists; New York was near the top of the fund's list and near the middle of the center's list.
 
How Figures Were Created
The fund rated states on whether they had achieved the Surgeon General's goal of reducing infant mortality by 1990 to 9 or fewer deaths per 1,000 live births - or reducing to no more than 5 percent of all births the proportion of infants born at low-birth weight.
The fund also studied whether states had reduced the percentage of children in poverty or had seen to it that 90 percent of babies were born to women who began prenatal care in the first three months.
Each study used as indicators the percentage of children living below the poverty line, the percentage of births to teen-age mothers, the unemployment rate among teen-agers and the rate of high school graduates.
 
Study on Aiding Children Set
The fund also considered states' performance in programs like supplemental Medicaid assistance and nutrition assistance for poor children and pregnant women. The director of the Center for the Study of Social Policy, Tom Joe, said his group was undertaking a five-year, $5 million project to collect data on how children are served. He said it would be financed by the Annie E. Casey Foundation.
Marian Wright Edelman, president of the Children's Defense Fund, said the figures demonstrated that ''the mounting crisis of our children and our families is a rebuke to everything America professes to be.'' She warned that failure to see to it that children are well cared for will ''bring America to its economic knees and states.''
She said the United States had the highest teen-age pregnancy rate of six industrialized nations, comparing it with France, England, Canada, the Netherlands and Sweden. Polio immunization rates for American children, she added, rank behind those of 14 countries and the rates for non-white American children are behind those of 48 countries.
Mrs. Edelman's group said that from 1979 to 1986 there was a 66 percent increase in reported cases of child abuse or neglect. Since 1973, when she founded the fund, Mrs. Edelman said, young men's marriage rates declined by one-third and the proportion of births outside marriage doubled.
 
The Mother With a Job
The fund said the nation had not adequately recognized the needs of children whose mothers work outside the home. Half the pre-school age children today are in that situation and by the end of the century, the report said, the figure will rise to 70 percent.
Mrs. Edelman said that the actual number of children was dwindling and that by the year 2000 there would be 4.1 million fewer Americans between the ages of 18 and 24 than there were in the mid-1980's. ''Increased competition abroad means that every one of them must be fully productive,'' she said.
''Only 2 of 10 new work force entrants in the 1990's will be white males born in the United States,'' Mrs. Edelman said. ''If we are to compete effectively in the world economy, we need minority and poor youngsters to produce, rather than become dependent on us or shoot at us.
''Those who do not want to invest in black or brown or poor children must remember this.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (56%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (91%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (91%); CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF SOCIAL POLICY (57%); SURGEON GENERAL (54%); SURGEON GENERAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; BABIES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; INFANT MORTALITY RANKINGS (91%); INFANT MORTALITY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, NEIL A MARIAN WRIGHT EDELMAN (82%); 



196 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: A Seductive Tax Cut; Dangerous, Too

 BODY:
Last week every American worker began paying higher Social Security taxes. Suppose someone proposed to cancel the increase to help low-wage workers and also expose the true size of the Federal deficit. An irresistible offer, right? Wrong. 
Senator Daniel Moynihan of New York and others make just such a proposal. But the offer is deceiving. By cutting tax revenues, the proposal would mean increased Federal borrowing. That would mean siphoning private savings from corporate investment in order to pay the Government's bills. The gravest threat to the long-term health of the economy is too little savings. Mr. Moynihan's proposal would make this problem worse.
The Jan. 1 rise in payroll taxes is part of a plan worked out in 1983 to save the Social Security system. The idea was to generate annual surpluses large enough to pay for a bulge in retirement benefits expected around 2020. Mr. Moynihan, an architect of the original plan, would wipe out these surpluses and, instead, boost tax rates when the retirements actually occur.
The Senator is justifiably frustrated that an increasing share of Federal tax revenues is generated by the regressive Social Security tax. Because the flat-rate tax applies only to the first $51,300 of earnings, it hurts low-paid workers more than high-paid ones. And because employers bear part of the tax, it discourages employment. Mr. Moynihan's plan would soften these blows - until 2020 or so, when the rates would have to be raised.
Senator Moynihan is also justifiably chagrined that Social Security surpluses have been used to mask the Federal deficit. The surpluses, used in large part to fund various forms of public consumption, now do little to provide for future retirees. If, instead, the revenues were invested in new productive capacity, the economy would grow and provide future retirees with the goods they will want to buy.
Yet Mr. Moynihan's tax cut would make matters worse. Lowering taxes is exactly the wrong prescription for an economy that already suffers from frighteningly high deficits and alarmingly low savings. Perhaps the Senator's purpose is to create a budgetary panic that would compel Congress to respond with higher income taxes. But such kamikaze tactics can backfire if politicians continue to read President Bush's lips and refuse to enact new taxes.
Political candor is needed. There's a clear way to lessen the regressivity of the current tax system without widening the deficit: Cut the Social Security payroll tax and raise income taxes accordingly. This swap need not be politically suicidal. The necessary income tax hike would be minuscule. By one estimate, the 28 percent tax rate on high incomes would have to be raised only a fraction of 1 percent to fund Mr. Moynihan's plan.
But even that swap would not be nearly enough. The country would still be left with an abysmally low savings rate, due in part to an undiminished Federal deficit. What's needed are even higher taxes.
It's O.K. to lower taxes on the working poor. And it's O.K. to unmask the size of the Federal deficit. But it's not O.K. to tantalize voters with the prospect of a tax cut that cannot be sustained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (93%); SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); TAX LAW (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICS (64%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 



197 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Opposition to Nuclear Power Grows Stronger

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Nuclear power may not be inherently unworkable, but it is being rejected worldwide for precisely those reasons you mention in ''Revive the Atom'' (editorial, Dec. 8): bad economics, poorer safety and a lack of trust by the public.
You imply that the antinuclear movement is a United States phenomenon, but nuclear power has never faced such determined opposition around the world.
In Western Europe, France remains the only country with an active nuclear construction program, but France plans to order only one new plant in the next four years. The country has also seen an upswing in demonstrations - from across the political spectrum - against nuclear plants and waste dumps. 
Britain's hopes for a new line of plants, based on the Sizewell-B P.W.R. reactor, have collapsed. This followed government attempts to get a resistant financial community to swallow the uneconomic nuclear stations. Elsewhere in Europe, the talk is of wastes and decommissioning, not construction of new plants.
Glasnost in the Soviet Union has been harsh on nuclear power advocates, with at least 10 plants closed or canceled in the last two years. This month, Hungary canceled plans to build four Soviet-style nuclear plants.
Faced with the largest popular movement since World War II, Japanese industry and government are scaling back ambitious nuclear expansion plans. Taiwan saw its third attempt to construct more plants stopped by domestic opposition this year. South Korea saw its first anti nuclear demonstration a year ago; now the government faces a coalition that has succeeded in halting planned expansion and is calling for shutdowns.
The notion that there are new environmentally benign and safe designs of nuclear plants that will alter public opposition is misconceived and not even shared by some in the industry. A study by the British Atomic Energy Authority found that the new designs may be just as vulnerable to structural failures as the old. Even the industry's trade journal, Nucleonics Week, states that ''experts are flatly unconvinced that safety has been achieved - or even substantially advanced - by the new designs.''
If companies say the newly designed nuclear power plants will be cheaper to build than coal-fired power plants, I say let them pay for them on their own. We've already poured a trillion dollars into nuclear power since World War II.
I'd rather spend the money on cleaning up nuclear wastes and decommissioning the numerous civilian nuclear plants that are being closed, including Rancho Seco in California and Fort St. Vrain in Colorado, an ''advanced'' high-temperature, gas-cooled reactor that didn't work.
You call for environmentalists to help create conditions for public acceptance of nuclear power. I remain doubtful that safe and cheap nuclear power, free of waste and proliferation problems, exists. The last 40 years haven't taught me otherwise. Until the manufacturers put their money where their mouth is, all I'll see is one more handout for another white elephant.
 
NICHOLAS LENSSEN
 Takoma Park, Md., Dec. 21, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (56%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (75%); LANDFILLS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); WORLD WAR II (65%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); 

PERSON: LENSSEN, NICHOLAS



198 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
The nation's largest banks reduced the prime rate to 10 percent, from 10 1/2 percent. It was the first cut in the closely watched lending rate since July. The reduction comes amid widespread signs of a weakening economy. [Page A1.] 
Americans took out $4.24 billion more in consumer credit than they retired in November, the largest increase in outstanding debt in nine months. [D2.] A significant number of consumer loans made by commercial banks are turning sour, the Comptroller of the Currency told a group of bankers. [D2.]
 
International
The Bush Administration's strategy for easing third world debt has fallen well short of its stated objective. The strategy called for cutting the commercial bank debt of 39 countries, chiefly in Latin America and Africa, by 20 percent. Had it reached that goal, roughly $100 billion of debt would have been eliminated. While some progress has been made, in the 10 months since the strategy was announced, no final debt reduction package has been concluded with any country. [A1.]
Prices on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange plunged an average of 53 percent in value. [D1.]
 
 
 
Companies
UAL asked its advisers to explore a recapitalization of the airline company. Through such a move, UAL, which owns United Airlines, would borrow money to buy back a large chunk of its 21 million outstanding shares. [D1.]
G.M.'s board said management succession was its responsibility, responding to requests from two large institutional shareholders that they be consulted on finding a successor to Roger B. Smith, who is retiring as chairman and chief executive. [D1.]
As deadlines loom for Campeau to come up with the money to meet its obligations, the company has given no indication of how it intends to address its problems. [D7.] First Boston finds itself uniquely exposed as a result of Campeau's problems. [D7.]
Unisys said it was engaged in ''constructive talks'' with the Justice Department aimed at a settlement of charges in the department's long-running inquiry into Pentagon fraud. [D11.]
Dawn Steel resigned as president of Columbia Pictures. She is expected to set up her own production company. [C15.]
A group of limited partners of Ivan F. Boesky received a $248 million payment yesterday, in the culmination of a complex settlement reached over the last few months.[D7.]
Intel introduced a supercomputer that analysts said should gain a share of the growing commercial market. [D4.]
Nissan plans to introduce a less expensive Infiniti model later this year. [D4.]
 
 
 
Markets
Stock prices rose moderately, spurred by futures-related buying about an hour before the close. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 21.12 points, to 2,794.37. [D8.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds fell again, as dealers sold securities in the wake of a big drop in the dollar and were unimpressed by a half-point cut in the prime lending rate. [D15.]
The dollar fell sharply in active trading, skidding to a 20-month low against the West German mark. [D16.] Energy prices continued to plunge amid unseasonably warm weather. [D16.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
William Farley appears unable to complete his purchase of West Point-Pepperell. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
How will the Government manage the sale of thousands of properties overseen by the Resolution Trust Corporation? Lamar C. Kelly Jr. provides some answers. Talking Business. [D2.]
The breakup of Posey Quest Genova illustrates the diminishing chance that a small, successful agency will remain independent for long. Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (51%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (62%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); PRICES OF TREASURY (66%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FUTURES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); BONDS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); SUCCESSION PLANS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (66%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (61%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); 



199 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3151 words

HEADLINE: Crucial Time for New York Stores

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
In the embattled terrain of New York-area retailing, seven key department-store groups remain in the fight not only for customers but for survival itself in the most difficult period American retailing has faced in decades.
Years from now, many will probably wonder how the survivors made it through the New York ''store wars.'' The future is uncertain, if not worrisome, or so retailing analysts, store executives and consultants said in more than a dozen interviews. If recent trends hold, most of the big stores will probably change hands by the mid-1990's and revamp their strategies several times.
The watershed year of 1989, which sorted the quick from the dying retailers, will likely be followed by at least two more years of turmoil for the seven main survivors among New York department stores: R. H. Macy, Bloomingdale's, Saks Fifth Avenue, Abraham & Straus, Lord & Taylor, Stern's and Bergdorf Goodman. 
 
More Discounting Is Likely
Still, the New York retailing companies that emerge will be a resilient breed, having demonstrated an ability to adapt, to function under great pressure and to avoid wilting under heavy burdens of debt.
The aggressive price-cutting that shoppers saw this holiday season is likely to become the norm as stores try to appeal to a broader range of customers, retailing analysts say. But this two-pronged push to the consumer midstream will likely invite new competition at both the high and low ends of the retail marketplace.
And with the need to keep cash flowing in to pay debt, the New York market is likely to become much more distinctly layered among low-,> medium- and high-priced outlets. Analysts who follow retailing say the department-store groups will each have to hone their marketing strategies carefully to prevail in the 1990's.
''Market forces have drastically changed the composition of New York retailing,'' said Walter K. Levy, a retail marketing consultant. ''Severe competition has forced out the businesses that had no real clear differentiation or critical mass. But I am more disturbed by the financial entrepreneurs who have bought good retail stores and compelled them to pay more attention to cash flow to pay debt than to their store business.''
''If retailers are distracted from concentrating on the future,'' he added, ''they aren't likely to have one.''
Indeed, almost all of the leading retailers in New York, the country's biggest market, have been unable to escape financial pressures, to avoid making huge debt payments, or to prevent their being put up for sale:
* Macy's, after recently reporting losses, remains under pressure from creditors to meet payments on the large debts created by its 1986 leveraged buyout, a technique that permits investors to use company assets as collateral to finance the company's purchase. Macy's added another $1 billion in debt when it acquired the California-based Bullock's and I. Magnin stores in 1988.
* Bloomingdale's was put up for sale by its owner, the Campeau Corporation, in September. Six bids are under consideration and a sale of ''Bloomie's'' has been expected in February. But people in the trade speculate that most of the bids placed so far are inadequate, raising the possibility that Bloomingdale's might be taken off the market and other Campeau units offered for sale in its place.
* Saks Fifth Avenue is also for sale by its owner, B.A.T. Industries. The bidding will not officially get under way until mid-January or early February.
* Abraham & Straus and Stern's, both also owned by Campeau, are under heavy pressure to produce strong sales and profits to keep the parent afloat. Both chains are faring relatively well and complement each other in the same market areas, with A.&S. selling slightly higher-priced merchandise.
 
Wide Economic Impact
The fortunes of these stores affect far more than the profits of the companies that own them. The New York economy is heavily dependent on the big stores for employment and for supporting hundreds of businesses, including suppliers, service contractors, advertisers and newspapers.
Despite their burdens, these stores are better off than many others in the New York market. With closed storefronts on empty buildings and thousands of layoffs, New York retailing resembled a business war zone as 1989 slid into history.
The biggest recent casualty was B. Altman & Company, which closed six stores of its century-old business on Dec. 30, including the sprawling flagship store at 34th Street and Fifth Avenue. ''New York City has lost its grand old lady, not to mention the more than 1,000 people who worked there,'' said Joseph E. Brooks, chairman of Ann Taylor stores, formerly chairman of Lord & Taylor.
Bonwit Teller, now on the auction block after losing $23 million in the last three years, is likely to close the doors of its 16 stores if it does not attract a buyer. The 11 stores owned by Alexander's Inc. may soon be put up for sale. The developer Donald J. Trump, who owns 27 percent of Alexander's, has said he may buy the entire company.
The 17 Alcott & Andrews clothing stores, which catered to executive women, have been closed. TSS-Seedman, a venerable discount chain, is holding its final sales, as are the Bond men's clothing stores. J. W. Mays, a discounter that catered to low-income customers, ceased operations in its last four stores. And the Crazy Eddie electronics chain, which relied heavily on its ''insane'' advertising, has closed its 30 stores.
 
'Unusual Number of Failures'
''Considering the great size of the New York metropolitan market - 8.5 million people and retail sales of about $5.7 billion - the area has had an unusual number of failures,'' said James Posner, a New York retail marketing consultant and former retailer. ''Their bones litter the streets. One has to wonder why so many fail amid plenty.''
Mr. Posner, for one, sees two reasons for the havoc in New York retailing: the need to become more aggressive in view of rising costs and tougher competition, and a shift by consumers from conventional department stores to specialty stores.
Unlike retailers in other cities with smaller bases of customers, however, stores in New York need not capture a large market share to be big, profitable or successful, Mr. Posner said. ''The sales potential is that big,'' he explained.
Sales at New York-area stores operated by the three largest retailers, for example, are huge. Macy's is the largest by far in sales, with estimated annual revenue last year of more than $2 billion. Bloomingdale's is second, with 1989 sales of about $1.6 billion. And Abraham & Straus is third at $800 million.
But sheer volume of sales and a long history do not safeguard a company from losses or liquidation. From conversations with many analysts, store executives and consultants, a consensus emerges on the strategies of the seven big retailers and the areas they may seek to emphasize to try to prevail.
 
R. H. Macy & Company
Sales Are Huge, But So Is Debt
Still loaded with heavy debt, Macy's nonetheless remains New York's most vigorous retailer, and industry analysts predict that it will probably continue promotions like big one-day sales to fill its immense Herald Square flagship store and its area branches with shoppers. More than any other local retailer, Macy's, a private company led by Edward S. Finkelstein, has diversified its appeal to a broad group of shoppers.
Mr. Finkelstein is expected to continue his policy of invigorating the six formerly staid New York-area stores with the trendy leisure fashions that had turned the Macy's stores in the San Francisco area, which he once managed, into the Bloomingdale's of that region.
Macy's profits improved under his tenure, and the gains would likely have continued, except for the 1986 leveraged buyout led by Mr. Finkelstein, together with some 350 associates. Since then, profits have alternated with losses, and a steady flow of cash has become crucial in making debt payments.
With a big Hong Kong buying office, Macy's expanded its private-label business in the 1980's to enjoy the higher profit margins made possible by its more than 40 store brands. But when Macy's bought the California-based Bullock's and I. Magnin stores, it added another $1 billion in debt to its existing $7 billion. When sales of women's clothes stalled, Macy's had to cut back sharply on its private labels.
Macy's chances for success appear reasonably good, retailing people say. This promises to be a crucial year for the chain, as it seeks to improve its bottom line and prove that its leveraged buyout was a smart business decision.
 
Bloomingdale's
The Cutting Edge Is Paring Profits
For years viewed as the leading-edge department-store operator in America for its skills in tapping trends, Bloomingdale's will be hard put in the next few years to recover from the slippage that began in the last year, Wall Street analysts say. As many of its loyal customers have grown older they have lost their zest for products in the ''big brown bag'' that has become a company symbol.
There are fewer of the young, affluent consumers now than in past years, data show. In the years ahead, regardless of who buys the chain, Bloomingdale's will likely have to find some new strategy - probably something between the classic approach of Saks and its own trendy ways - that will bring it back to its former heights.
Like Mr. Finkelstein at Macy's, Marvin S. Traub, with his bubbling persona and his talent for creative merchandising, has become closely linked to Bloomingdale's. The store's chairman and chief executive, Mr. Traub is leading an investor group trying to buy the company.
But some reports from Tokyo, where Mr. Traub went to attract Japanese retail financing, indicate that he failed to find backers for the several hundred million dollars in equity that he needs. The Japanese retailers he approached said the $1 billion-plus asking price was too high for a company whose business seemed lackluster to them.
At a time when millions of working women want serviceable, classic clothes, retail analysts say Bloomingdale's biggest challenge will be to become a bit less trendy and a bit more practical.
The flagship store has sales per square foot of $800, one of the highest in American department stores, while its estimated overall sales of about $400 a square foot well exceed the industry average for such stores, about $225 a square foot.
In its pricing and fashion approach, Bloomingdale's straddled Bergdorf Goodman on the high end and Saks Fifth Avenue on the slightly lower end. But these days, as it promotes heavily to help Campeau, its financially strapped parent, its image has become fuzzy, retail executives say.
 
Saks Fifth Avenue
Seeking to Grow As Incomes Rise
Along with Nordstrom Inc., of Seattle, Saks Fifth Avenue is probably the nation's most respected fashion-apparel chain. But it will have to ferret out some new approaches to keep its current customers and to attract the younger, professionally employed shoppers whose incomes are expected to swell further as they get older. Since these affluent professionals prefer designer and national brands, Saks may have to re-examine its house brands, which dominate its inventories, analysts say.
Like some of its prime competitors, Saks has added more moderately priced goods in reaction to the race for market share and to the demand by its British parent, B.A.T. Industries, for higher sales and profits.
But company executives say that any effort to broaden its pricing is minimal and that Saks continues to carry out its mission statement of being a ''high-service, national marketer of top-quality merchandise.'' Its primary customers, they insist, remain in the upper income bracket. Saks sells more than $1 billion of merchandize in its 46 stores nationwide, with profits ''well above'' the 4 percent level on sales for similar retailers. The company's bottom-line performance slipped somewhat in 1988, but picked up in 1989.
Saks is also expanding its flagship store on Fifth Avenue in the conviction that it is a vital showpiece for the company.
 
Abraham & Straus
Manhattan Store And Momentum
 
Perhaps the only large New York retailer that is markedly turning around, Abraham & Straus is expected to gain more momentum through an approach that combines brand names with discounted fashions to appeal to middle-income shoppers and young couples.
A decade ago, the most profitable division of Federated Department Stores - well before that company was acquired by Campeau - the 15-store Abraham & Straus fell on a long, unhappy stretch of unprofitable years. It regained minimal profitability until 1986, when its earnings markedly improved. Under Chaim Edelstein, the former executive vice president who became its chairman that year, the Brooklyn-based chain has taken on new life, with improved sales and respectable profits.
The company still faces problems with depressed local markets for its two biggest stores, the Brooklyn flagship on Fulton Street and the vast suburban branch in Hicksville, L.I. But by drastically reducing store space and opening new outlets, including a store at the old Gimbels site in Manhattan, A.&S. has again become an important force in New York retailing. Mr. Edelstein says the new store, a scant two blocks from Macy's flagship store, is ''exceeding all expectations.''
With Gimbels gone for almost five years, A.&S. is emerging as Macy's biggest head-to-head competitor. This is the old Macy-Gimbel rivalry reincarnated, something of a twist in that before the turn of the century the Straus merchant family owned virtually all of both Macy's and A.&S.
 
Lord & Taylor
Setting Prices To Foster Sales
Analysts and professional retailers say that aside from the Campeau-owned local trio of Bloomingdale's, Abraham & Straus, and Stern's, Lord & Taylor may be the under the most pressure to sharpen its strategy. Its future growth will hinge on new merchandising and marketing techniques to achieve higher sales and profits, they say.
Acquired in 1986 by the May Department Stores Company, of St. Louis, as part of May's purchase of the Associated Dry Goods Corporation, Lord & Taylor has been influenced and molded by the parent to pursue high sales volume with popular-priced goods that are aggressively promoted. May's highly successful formula has been to ferret out price brackets that appeal to many customers, emphasizing moderate prices and aiming at maximum sales. This is the reverse of Macy's approach, which has been to move toward higher prices.
By dropping most home furnishings, Lord & Taylor has become essentially a specialty clothing retailer, limiting its appeal to the general public. Yet like Saks Fifth Avenue, Lord & Taylor remains one of the best-known fashion retailers, with strong links to the designer community and the potential to be expanded to other cities.
 
Stern's
Filling a Niche In the Middle
With stores in New Jersey, New York City and state and on Long Island, Stern's will coast into the 1990's as one of those conventional department stores that used to rank a distant second or third. But Stern's has filled a niche, and its future appears bright as a store that offers name brands and constant price promotions for the middle-income consumer.
Twenty years ago, Stern's closed its longtime Manhattan flagship store on 42d Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues, reluctant to continue paying high rent for a business that flourished only with lunchtime office workers. But it has since proved that a department-store chain does not necessarily need an urban anchor to survive and grow. It is now a 24-store chain based in Paramus, N.J. Sales are almost $700 million a year and Lawrence Stone, the company's chairman, says profits are ''very good.''
Under the ownership of Allied Stores, the seven Stern's stores in New Jersey were merged in 1982 with Allied's Gertz division of eight stores in New York City and on Long Island. After being renamed Stern's, the combined division in 1986 bought nine Gimbels locations, closed five stores and later opened three new units in New Jersey.
Offering moderately priced, almost exclusively national-brand goods, Stern's operates as a bridge between discounters like Caldor and Bradlees and higher-priced department stores like Abraham & Straus and Macy's. Disputing the contention that Stern's has filled the vacuum left by Gimbels' demise in 1986, Mr. Stone says: ''We are very different than they were. They operated almost entirely with big 'price events,' but while we certainly promote, we have a good, sound, everyday business irrespective of that. And unlike Gimbels, we make an above-average profit.''
 
Bergdorf Goodman
Top-Rung Profits In High-Rent Area
Bergdorf Goodman will finally add another store this year, and its enviable profits are expected to rise because of it.
Although bigger rivals sometimes shrug off the company because it has remained a one-store business in an era of great retail expansion, others see it differently. Admirers see it as the only New York retailer, and one of the few in the country, that has stayed on the ''high ground,'' referring to its focus on top-quality designer names. But perhaps for that reason, Bergdorf's profitability is among the highest in the industry, reaching 13.6 percent of sales before taxes in the fiscal year ended in July, on sales of $175 million. Sales are more than $1,000 per square foot of selling space.
How can a retailer that sells women's clothes for thousands of dollars and a men's custom-made suit for $2,000 avoid the slumping sales of expensive cars and furs? Bergdorf's location may be a partial answer. The 140,000-square-foot store, on the northwest corner of 58th Street and Fifth Avenue, is within five blocks of 10 of the city's most expensive luxury hotels. And it is only a few blocks from the exclusive residential neighborhoods of Central Park South and upper Fifth Avenue.
Asked to comment on the location, Ira Neimark, Bergdorf's chairman, said, ''Perhaps it's as one customer put it to me - 'you're in a tall, blonde, mink-coated gridlock.' ''
Bergdorf, owned for many years by Carter Hawley Hale Stores, was acquired in August 1987 by the Neiman-Marcus Group, a company created by a spinoff from Carter Hawley Hale. A new Bergdorf men's store, which will open in the old F.A.O. Schwarz building across Fifth Avenue from the main store, will open in August with 40,000 square feet.
In an era of troubled giants, Bergdorf has an intriguing tiny success on its ground floor. Its most productive department is only 3 feet long by 2 feet wide. It is a counter selling women's and men's belts designed by Barry Kieselstein-Cord, where the sales are four times the store's norm, or a stunning $5,000 per square foot.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 11, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about competition among New York department stores misstated the amount of debt held by R.H. Macy & Company when it bought the California-based Bullock's and I. Magnin stores in May 1988. It was $3.5 billion, not $7 billion. Macy's current debt is $4.8 billion.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bloomingdale's, and Bergdorf Goodman are two of seven big department store groups competing for customers, and possibly for survival, in the New York area. (NYT/Greta Pratt) (pg. D1); Lord & Taylor is under pressure to sharpen its strategy, analysts and retailers say.; Abraham & Straus has shown marked improvement after some difficult years.; Seeking to raise sales, Saks Fifth Avenue has added more moderately priced goods.; Bonwit Teller, now on the auction block, lost $23 million in the last three years (NYT/Greta Pratt) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (94%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (56%); NEW YORK (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACY, R H, & CO INC; LORD & TAYLOR INC; BLOOMINGDALE'S; SAKS FIFTH AVENUE; ABRAHAM & STRAUS; STERN'S DEPARTMENT STORES; BERGDORF GOODMAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); TRENDS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MARKETING STRATEGY (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); CITIES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (60%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE



200 of 754 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Debt Rises At 7.2% Rate

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
Americans took out $4.24 billion more in consumer credit than they retired in November, the largest increase in outstanding debt in nine months, the Federal Reserve reported today.
Some analysts said the jump reflected consumer optimism despite pockets of sluggishness in the economy.
''It presents a clear picture that consumers are back on track, even if they had slowed down earlier in the year,'' said Michael K. Evans of Evans Economics Inc., a Washington forecasting firm. ''They're starting to spend again. We also saw this in the Christmas sales, which were pretty good.'' 
 
Highest Since February
The Fed said that consumer credit in November advanced at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 7.2 percent, on top of a 5.4 percent gain in October. It was the highest level of consumer debt since February, when $5.38 billion was posted.
Consumer credit includes all consumer loans except mortgages. In November, consumer debt totaled a seasonally adjusted $711.8 billion.
The pace of auto loans slowed to a 2.2 percent increase, or $519 million, on an annual basis, reflecting the November slump in the automobile industry because of an absence of sales incentives and the presence of price increases for 1990 models.
Auto loans increased 4.1 percent in October, but analysts said that reflected a lag in credit applications made in September but not approved until the next month.
Auto sales remained depressed until late December, when car buyers took advantage of incentives that expired at the end of the year.
''Consumers didn't like the prices and knew they would come down,'' Mr. Evans said, describing the situation in the auto industry as a pricing problem, not an economic one.
 
Revolving Debt Climbs
The debt category that includes credit-card purchases jumped to a 17.2 percent annual rate of growth, from a 6.6 percent rate in October. Total revolving debt rose $2.8 billion, compared with $1.08 billion the previous month.
Bank and credit union loans not secured by real estate rose $1.33 billion, an 8 percent annual rate of growth, compared with a gain of $1.17 billion, or 7.1 percent, in October.
Debts outstanding on mobile homes fell again, down $424 million, or 22.2 percent. The rate of increase in these debts had fallen for seven consecutive months until a one-month gain in September.

GRAPHIC: Graph of the net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding from June '88-Nov. '89 (source: Federal Reserve Board) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT CONSUMER LENDING (92%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); SALES & SELLING (70%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (67%); MOBILE HOMES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

 
