

1 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Songs of Poverty and Crime, on Both Sides of the Border 

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
Homer had the Trojan War. West African griots have the exploits of legendary kings. And the writers of contemporary Mexican corridos, story-songs that are popular on both sides of the Rio Grande, have immigration, the drug trade, poverty, homesickness and cross-cultural tensions to supply them with material. 
 ''The corrido is the diary, the archive of man's life, and as long as man is walking there will be corridos,'' says Paulino Vargas, a pre-eminent corrido songwriter, in ''Al Otro Lado (To the Other Side),'' a documentary in the ''P.O.V.'' series on PBS tonight. Directed by Natalia Almada, the documentary is handsomely filmed, whether in sun-drenched landscapes or crowded nightclubs. It's not a history of corridos, which have roots that reach back to medieval songs; it's a glimpse of art running parallel to daily life. 
Non-Spanish-speaking gringos may be surprised to learn that the bouncy, accordion-driven waltzes and polkas heard in Mexican and Chicano neighborhoods aren't always pop love songs. Many of the most popular groups in Latin music, like the Mexican-American band Los Tigres del Norte, have weightier topics in mind. In the documentary, Los Tigres set an arena crowd in Mexico cheering as they sing (in Spanish), ''They've yelled at me a thousand times to return to my country/ because there is no room for me here/ I'd like to remind the gringos/ I didn't cross the border, the border crossed me/ America was born free, man divided it.'' 
 ''Al Otro Lado'' repeatedly crosses the border to present music that's inseparable from social conditions, particularly the poverty and unemployment in Mexico that lead some people to try to emigrate and others to the quick, dangerous profits of crime. ''There is no other path to take, so they do it,'' Jorge Hernandez of Los Tigres del Norte comments about drug traffickers. 
 In past eras, corridos carried the stories of revolutionaries like Pancho Villa. Now, in an increasingly popular subgenre called the narcocorrido, some songs retell the lives of drug traffickers, mixing an almost journalistic attention to facts with a touch of mythmaking. Mr. Vargas, the songwriter, says, ''Maybe I could have been a journalist,'' but when he arrived in the United States he was illiterate. 
 The documentary shows fledgling and famous corrido songwriters who turn local details into lyrics. In La Reforma, a fishing village in the state of Sinaloa, a young man named Magdiel sings bluntly about another use for boats: drug smuggling. The documentary follows through with a reality check, showing how the drug trade can sustain an entire local economy -- not just for dealers but for, among other things, shipbuilders who know they're building vessels that can hold far more than a day's catch of shrimp. 
 There's a glimpse of Chalino Sanchez, who wrote corridos on commission for drug lords and went on to a brief, stellar career in Los Angeles at the end of the 1980's with chronicles of crime and gunplay. When he was murdered in 1992 at 32, under mysterious circumstances after a concert in Mexico, he became something like the Tupac Shakur of the narcocorrido. 
 There are clear parallels between gangsta rap and narcocorridos, and Mexican-American corrido singers are well aware of them. Both gangsta rap and narcocorridos treat crime as a last resort for survival; both present tales of desperation and violence. Jessie Morales, known as El Original de la Sierra, was born in Los Angeles and sings corridos in Spanish, but he is also shown in the studio recording a hip-hop track in English. He promises in one bit of song to ''speak without lies,'' just as rappers insist they're ''keepin' it real.'' Another Mexican-American corridista, Jenni Rivera, says she set out to become a female Chalino, and she sings about being a ''chacalosa'' -- a bad girl -- who inherited her father's drug business and runs it from a cellphone and a beeper. 
 But gangsta rap has little to say about another subject that dominates corridos: immigration. In the final section of ''Al Otro Lado,'' the young songwriter Magdiel decides to take his chances at entering the United States illegally. The documentary sets music aside to visit government border patrols, a ''coyote'' who transports Mexicans, a vigilante in Arizona who sees Mexican immigration as ''an all-out invasion'' and illegal immigrants captured by the border patrol. ''We came here to work for you, to pick your crops,'' one says. ''In Mexico there is no work.''
 Magdiel approaches the United States border, praying and then disappearing into twilight. And Los Tigres sing an immigration corrido that, one hopes, doesn't turn out to be his true story. 

P.O.V.
Al Otro Lado (To the Other Side)
PBS, tonight at 10; check local listings.

Natalia Almada, producer, director and editor; Kent Rogowski and Tommaso Fiacchino, producers; Chuy Chavez, cinematographer; Sam Pollard, consulting editor; Cara Mertes, series executive producer.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jorge Hernandez of the Mexican-American band Los Tigres del Norte in the PBS documentary ''Al Otro Lado (To the Other Side).'' (Photo by ''Al Otro Lado'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); SONG WRITING (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); WRITERS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (72%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%) Television; Reviews; Television

PERSON: Jon Pareles

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



2 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: Arts Money In Limbo Downtown

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
The dissolution of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the agency responsible for rebuilding downtown, has left cultural groups wondering whether a government entity with teeth will emerge to ensure that the arts have a place in the neighborhood.
 It was the development corporation that selected four arts groups for ground zero in June 2004 and chose architects for two planned cultural buildings; helped other downtown arts groups bounce back with $27 million in grants in March; committed $50 million to a planned Performing Arts Center; and pledged $10 million to a home for the Drawing Center after the museum was dropped from the site's master plan.
Now cultural groups are asking what will happen to the remaining $7 million in development corporation money earmarked for culture, and who will see to it that plans for the performing arts center move ahead -- especially since the project has been sidelined in favor of forging ahead on a ground zero memorial. 
 ''Now what, indeed?'' said Tom Healy, president of the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council, which represents downtown arts groups. ''It all seems to be very much up in the air.'' 
 ''What happens to the remaining cultural dollars without L.M.D.C. around?'' Mr. Healy asked. ''There isn't necessarily a strong advocate for that.'' 
 The development corporation, the city-state agency formed to direct the rebuilding effort, was always intended to have a limited life. In announcing last week that its work would soon end, Kevin M. Rampe, chairman of the development corporation, said it had accomplished its main goals: choosing a master plan and a memorial design for the World Trade Center site and allocating federal money for cultural programs. 
 But given that no ground has been broken on any cultural projects, their designs remain uncertain and some still could face opposition from relatives of the victims, it remains unclear who will devise or enforce any sort of timetable. 
 At SoHo Repertory Theater, which recently received a $100,000 planning grant from the development corporation, staff members are planning a meeting to discuss the agency's imminent demise. ''We're trying to figure out what this means in terms of their ongoing support,'' said Daniel Aukin, the theater's artistic director.
 John Haworth, director of the National Museum of the American Indian's New York branch at One Bowling Green, known as the George Gustav Heye Center, said of the development corporation, ''They played an important role, and I guess my question is, How will that role be fulfilled in the future?'' 
 It's been hard enough to make culture happen at the World Trade Center site. In addition to ousting the Drawing Center from the World Trade Center site proper, family members persuaded Gov. George E. Pataki to shelve a planned International Freedom Center. Both were to occupy a future museum building designed by the Norwegian firm Snohetta that will now serve instead as a visitors center above the World Trade Center Memorial Museum.
 The development corporation itself was widely criticized for its handling of the cultural organizations: for failing to provide clear information, for moving too slowly, for retreating from plans or delaying them when public criticism of its choices arose. In a recent memo to his colleagues obtained by The New York Times, Adrian Ellis, a consultant who worked on cultural development downtown, wrote of the development corporation: ''L.M.D.C. was one of the most unimpressive organizations with which I have worked in 16 years of consulting: the expression 'sloping shoulders' could have been invented for it -- everyone sitting across the table seemed furtive, cowed, insinuating, hand-wringing and evasive, from the first meeting to the last.''
 Slow fund-raising for the memorial itself; the recent resignation of the president of the World Trade Center Memorial Foundation, Gretchen Dykstra; and debates over the memorial's design have helped keep the focus away from the Performing Arts Center, which is to be designed by Frank Gehry and shared by the Signature Theater Company, an Off-Broadway company, and the Joyce Theater, which presents dance.
 Reached by phone, Mr. Gehry said he was unaware that the L.M.D.C. was going out of business. ''I don't have a clue,'' he said. 
 Linda Shelton, the executive director of the Joyce, said in an interview, ''Any change is anxiety-ridden.'' She added, ''Once it gets sorted out, it will be fine.''
 Still uncertain is which agency will oversee cultural development downtown after the corporation dissolves. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has enlarged its role recently, taking over construction of the Freedom Tower, formerly overseen by the developer Larry A. Silverstein, and of the memorial. While Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff said the city would like to oversee disbursement of the remaining grants, its role is still undetermined. 
 ''I believe the city will have the central role,'' he said. ''Ultimately the governor and the mayor will jointly decide who will be responsible for what elements of the L.M.D.C.'s work.''
 ''Our commitment to culture and cultural organizations in Lower Manhattan has always been steadfast,'' Mr. Doctoroff added. ''Given that, I do not believe the wind-down of the L.M.D.C. will have any negative impact on the Performing Arts Center or the disbursement of the remaining funds.''
 Ms. Shelton said she would be happy to have downtown cultural development in the city's hands. ''Given the mayor's track record in the arts, it would be a wonderful thing,'' she said, alluding to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's private philanthropy and his highly visible Department of Cultural Affairs. James Houghton, the artistic director of the Signature Theater, said he was encouraged that the city sought a larger role.
 The Port Authority has gained a reputation as a more efficient agency than the development corporation -- it broke ground on a PATH station designed by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava, virtually the only uncontroversial piece of architecture on the site so far. But when asked about its potential involvement, the authority said yesterday in a statement, ''We do not anticipate a role in the development of cultural facilities on the site." Tensions have already arisen over its plans to put a temporary PATH terminal on part of the Performing Arts Center site between Vesey and Fulton Streets, which would push the theater project further into the future. 
 ''Anything that delays culture on the site at this point creates a very sad situation,'' said Madelyn Wils, a director of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. ''If you go back five years, it was very important not only to mourn the deaths of all who died on the site but also to go forward by celebrating the life downtown. It was a very important piece of the equation that now is basically on the back burner.''
 Some have broached the possibility that the Memorial Foundation, created in 2004 to raise money for the memorial and cultural buildings, could take on responsibility for advancing the arts at ground zero. But given the strong presence of 9/11 family members on the foundation board whose overriding priority is the memorial, many involved say the two projects should remain separate. 
 Some worry that the $7 million left over for cultural organizations -- of an overall $45 million that the development corporation set aside in May 2005 for downtown arts groups that are not at ground zero -- would be diverted to the memorial or other uses. ''We're hard pressed to make sure that $7 million doesn't disappear,'' Mr. Healy said.
 Some argue that the entire process should be suspended until a new governor takes office in January. 
 Stefan Pryor, the president of the development corporation, said he expected cultural growth downtown to proceed as planned. ''We're working closely with the city and the State of New York to ensure that the cultural grants by L.M.D.C. are disbursed and that the cultural organizations themselves continue to be supported by the downtown network of agencies,'' he said.
 In the meantime, cultural groups hope for the best. ''We will continue to work with whoever is in charge,'' said Ms. Shelton of the Joyce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); THEATER (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); THEATER COMPANIES (66%); TERRORISM (62%) Culture ; Terrorism; Monuments and Memorials; World Trade Center (NYC); Finances

ORGANIZATION: Lower Manhattan Development Corp

PERSON: Robin Pogrebin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



3 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2091 words

HEADLINE: Transforming the Alchemists

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
Historians of science are taking a new and lively interest in alchemy, the often mystical investigation into the hidden mysteries of nature that reached its heyday in Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries and has been an embarrassment to modern scientists ever since.
 There was no place in the annals of empirical science, beginning mainly in the 18th century, for the occult practices of obsessed dreamers who sought most famously and impossibly to transform base metals into pure gold. So alchemy fell into disrepute.
But in the revival of scholarship on the field, historians are finding reasons to give at least some alchemists their due. Even though they were secretive and self-deluded and their practices closer to magic than modern scientific methods, historians say, alchemists contributed to the emergence of modern chemistry as a science and an agent of commerce.
 ''Experimentalism was one of alchemy's hallmarks,'' said Lawrence M. Principe, a historian of science at Johns Hopkins University and a trained chemist. ''You have to get your hands dirty, and in this way alchemists forged some early ideas about matter.'' 
 Bent over boiling crucibles in their shadowy laboratories, squeezing bellows before transformative flames and poring over obscure formulas, some alchemists stumbled on techniques and reactions of great value to later chemists. It was experimentation by trial and error, historians say, but it led to new chemicals and healing elixirs and laid the foundations of procedures like separating and refining, distilling and fermenting.
 ''What do chemists do? They like to make stuff,'' Dr. Principe said. ''Most chemists are interested not so much in theory as in making substances with particular properties. The emphasis on products was the same with some alchemists in the 17th century.''
 Pamela H. Smith, a history professor at Columbia, said alchemy ''was the matter theory of its day'' and was ''incredibly multilayered and therefore a powerful way of viewing nature.''
 Yet on the whole, historians say, the widespread practice of alchemy impeded the rise of modern chemistry. While physics and astronomy marched slowly but inexorably from Galileo to Kepler to Newton and the Scientific Revolution, chemistry slumbered under alchemy's influence through what historians call its ''postponed scientific revolution.'' 
 The new research and revised interpretations concerning the role of alchemy in the history of chemistry as well as pharmacology and medicine were discussed at a three-day conference late last month at the Chemical Heritage Foundation in Philadelphia. The meeting, attended by more than 80 scientists and historians, was organized by Dr. Principe, who said, ''Only in the last 15 or 20 years have we learned how crucial alchemy was to the emergence of modern science.''
 No one at the meeting tried to turn lead into gold. But the historians conjured up quite a lode of pyrite, fool's gold, in the colorful characters they had found buried in previously neglected archives.
 A few practicing alchemists, it seems, may have been certifiably mad -- probably, like mad hatters, from sniffing the mercury they worked with.
 One notable alchemist of the 16th century, a Swiss named Paracelsus, was not mad, but cantankerous and iconoclastic. ''He was equal parts metallurgist, pharmacist, physician and crackpot,'' Dr. Principe said.
 Historians have found that Paracelsus made some advances in the detection of disorders by analyzing urine and claimed marvelous cures through alchemy. 
 In his chemical cosmology, he saw the world as a great distillation vessel and its changes as parallel to the operations carried out in a laboratory. But he recorded his material and spiritual ideas in the deliberately opaque writing typical of many alchemists, who expressed themselves in codes, symbols and emblems to conceal their findings from the uninitiated.
 From his study, Dane Thor Daniel of Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio, concluded that Paracelsus's unwavering objective was to find a Christian alternative to pagan natural philosophy -- science.
 Other alchemists were outright charlatans or fools, ridiculed in contemporary art and literature. On display in a gallery at the conference hall were several 17th-century paintings by Flemish and Dutch artists, who depicted alchemists toiling in the disorder of dark workshops and the poverty of futile quests. The paintings were said to be popular among Dutch burghers as a caution to anyone contemplating a life in alchemy instead of steady trade.
 But many an alchemist drew support from royal courts where visions of newfound wealth and power danced in crowned heads. It was not always a happy alliance.
 In 1601, Hans Heinrich Nuschler signed a contract with his patron, Duke Friedrich of Wurttemberg in Stuttgart, to demonstrate his process for extracting a substantial amount of gold from a sample of silver. The duke, keen on mining technology, promised a generous reward. Nuschler agreed to conduct the experiments at his own expense.
 After several months of failure and mounting debt, the desperate alchemist resorted to fraud. He asked his brother to help by surreptitiously adding gold to the alchemical sample. His ploy exposed, Nuschler was tried, convicted and hanged.
 ''Only a handful of alchemists actually ended their careers on the gallows,'' said Tara E. Nummedal, a historian at Brown. ''But this underscored that alchemy was very serious business in the Holy Roman Empire.''
 In her report, Dr. Nummedal concluded that the relationships of patrons and alchemists showed that ''alchemy was a direct engagement with the political, economic, religious and intellectual realities of the early modern world.''
 At the turn of the 17th century, King Henry IV of France surrounded himself with alchemists who sought to resurrect plants from their ashes and experimented with ways to extend the monarch's life. Even the diplomats had orders to seek out the cryptic methods of alchemists in other countries.
 An alchemist in the court of a German prince scored a profitable success quite by accident. Looking for materials for creating precious metals, Johann Friedrich Bottger analyzed a ''white earth'' that duplicated the ingredients for imported Chinese porcelain. The discovery was the beginning of the Dresden china industry.
 Even geniuses of the first order, like Isaac Newton, found alchemy irresistible. It was an accepted method of seeking knowledge -- or confirmation of received truth -- in early modern history.
 Newton, whose laws of gravity and optics ushered in modern physics, also delved into alchemy with relentless energy. His notebooks contain thousands of pages on alchemic thoughts and experiments over 30 years.
 William R. Newman, a professor of the history and philosophy of science at Indiana University, said many manuscripts had not received the scrutiny they deserved. He reported on a text in the Smithsonian Institution that he called ''an overlooked gem.''
 In these notebook entries, Newton cited the ideas of German alchemists for imitating the processes by which metals were generated in nature, deep inside the earth. These involved the familiar alchemical theory of metallic generation through interactions of sulfur and mercury.
 But Newton, expanding on the theory, wrote: ''These two spirits above all wander over the earth and bestow life on animals and vegetables. And they makes stones, salts and so forth.''
 As Dr. Newman noted, ''Thus we have passed from a theory of mere metallic generation to one that is intended to explain the totality of life on earth, as well as the production of all mineral materials, not just metallic ones.''
 In this sense, Dr. Newman continued, Newton's repeated experiments for the rest of his life were aimed at fulfilling the words of the Emerald Tablet of Hermes, considered the founding text of alchemy in ancient Egypt. Newton expected to achieve what the tablet said was the una res, ''the one thing'' by which ''the world was created'' and with which one could ''perform miracles.''
 So it seems that Newton was no ordinary alchemist interested in making gold. He apparently aspired to a theory of alchemy more comprehensive than even his laws of gravity. But it could be said, in a paraphrase of Newton's famous expression of modesty, that the giants on whose shoulders he stood in this endeavor did not measure up to his antecedents in physics and astronomy.
 Newton's alchemical bent was not out of character, Dr. Smith of Columbia said. ''He was drawn to the occult,'' she said. ''Gravity for him was an occult force, and so was alchemy as an explanation of how things transform into other things.''
 The British chemist Robert Boyle, a Newton contemporary, also had a foot on each side of the alchemy-modern science divide. He dabbled for years in an alchemical obsession, the search for the philosopher's stone -- the long-sought agent for transmuting lead to gold and unlocking other material and spiritual secrets. The stone was the unified theory of everything in that time.
 Boyle wrote enviously in 1680 that ''there exists conceal'd in the world'' a group of chemists ''of a much higher order able to transmute baser Metalls into perfect ones.''
 At the same time, Boyle hurled harsh criticism at alchemists, particularly Paracelsians and the obscurity of their language and concepts. His purpose, he wrote, was to draw ''the Chymists Doctrine out of their Dark and Smoakie Laboratories into open light'' and to engage in ''better Experiments and Arguments.''
 Citing Boyle's ''swinging critique'' and even earlier attacks on alchemical practices, Stephen Clucas, a University of London historian, raised questions that he said require deeper research by historians: Why did a ''scientific revolution'' in experimental chemistry not occur earlier in the 17th century? Why was a clear separation of alchemy and exact chemistry delayed until the 18th century?
 Bruce T. Moran, a historian at the University of Nevada at Reno and the University College London, said it was not all that unreasonable at the time to be attracted to alchemy. ''For a variety of practical and intellectual reasons,'' Professor Moran said, ''the idea of transforming one thing into another was to be expected.''
 In everyday life, grapes were turned to wine and wheat to bread. A sour green apple grew into a sweet red one. It was in the nature of things to change, even metals. Miners and refiners already knew that lead ore almost always contains some silver, and silver ore almost always contains some gold. This implied that the metals changed one into the other over time.
 In the booklet ''Transmutations: Alchemy in Art,'' written with Lloyd DeWitt, an art historian, Dr. Principe noted that in 1600, chemists knew of just seven metals -- gold, silver, iron, copper, tin, lead and mercury. (Since then scientists have discovered another 60.) The original seven known metals had properties in common. They were shiny and, except for the liquid mercury, could be hammered, shaped and cast.
 ''The commonality of properties implied to early thinkers a commonality of composition,'' Dr. Principe wrote., ''And thus it was theorized that all the metals were composed of the same essential ingredients in different proportions and degrees of purity.''
 ''Even if in the modern view alchemy is all nonsense or very spiritual,'' Dr. Moran said, ''many people drawn to it for whatever reasons were actually creating very useful, practical chemistry and bringing to it an artisan know-how.''
 The conference on the history of alchemy opened with a program of chamber music called ''The Philosophers' Tone.'' The scholars delighted in Handel's transmutation of Ben Jonson's ''The Alchemist'' into pure gold. Over coffee between sessions, they pondered new directions of research and topics for dissertations. They said, for example, that more attention should be paid to alchemy's role in the history of medicine.
 They also remarked, somewhat conspiratorially, over parallels between the misguided certainties and self-delusion of alchemy and today's political and religious attacks on modern science. Of Boyle's efforts to replicate experiments from alchemical writings, Joseph E. Early, a retired Georgetown University professor who studies the philosophy of chemistry, said, ''He couldn't do it any more than we could find the weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.''
 Then the scholars departed Philadelphia, leaving the city's lead-to-gold ratio unchanged.


GRAPHIC: Photos: WORKSHOP, OR LAB? -- Some historians are rethinking the role of trial-and-error alchemy in the development of chemistry as a science. Above, ''An Alchemist in his Workshop,'' by David Teniers II, depicts alchemy in the 17th century. At right are the symbols early alchemists used for the seven metals known to them. (Photo by Chemical Heritage Foundation)
(Photo by Sergio Ruzzier)(pg. F1)
THE TOOLS -- Nineteenth-century laboratory containers and a 17th-century book about the philosophy of alchemy on display at the Chemical Heritage Foundation, the host of the conference. Alchemists often expressed their ideas with emblems and symbols.
 BUT IS IT CHEMISTRY? -- Christopher Stanwood, a librarian at the Historical Chemical Library in Philadelphia, looking over an old text during a conference on alchemy. (Photographs by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)(pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CHEMISTRY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (83%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (73%); PHYSICS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); PHARMACOLOGY (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: HERITAGE FOUNDATION (91%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (82%) Chemical Heritage Foundation; Johns Hopkins University

PERSON: John Noble Wilford; Lawrence M (Dr) Principe

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%); EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



4 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Production Increases Push Up An Index in the Chicago Area

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Manufacturing in the Chicago area this month unexpectedly accelerated as companies stepped up production to meet increased orders.
 The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said yesterday that its regional index rose to 57.9 this month, from 56.5 in June. A reading greater than 50 signals growth. A separate index of prices paid for raw materials fell from its highest level in 18 years. 
The report is the first in a string of figures this week, including the July jobs report, preceding the Aug. 8 meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers. 
 The president of the St. Louis Fed, William Poole, said yesterday that he was undecided on whether to extend the central bank's two-year credit tightening.
 Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in New York, said that factory output, which accounts for 12 percent of the economy, would remain ''quite healthy.'' 
 ''This reflects reasonably good domestic final demand, inventory accumulation, and strong export demand,'' he said.
 The association's production index climbed to 64.1, from 54.6. The new orders measure rose to 60, from 57.2, which was the lowest since February.
 The report is in line with broader data, like increasing orders for durable goods, that show rising profits are spurring demand for business equipment and leading companies to increase production. Manufacturing growth is expected to help support the economy this year as consumer spending softens and the housing market cools, economists said.
 Fed policy makers, who have raised rates 17 consecutive times to control inflation, have said further increases depend on future information about prospects for growth and inflation.
 ''We're going to have to apply all of our analytical skills and our judgment to this decision,'' Mr. Poole told reporters after a speech in Louisville, Ky., describing his stance as ''50-50.'' 
 The inventories index dropped to 48.7, the lowest since February 2004, from 54. The group's employment index edged up to 50.5 this month, from 50.4 in June.
 The index of order backlogs fell to 48.2, from 57.8. The measure of delivery times slipped to 55.5, from 55.7.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); EXPORT TRADE (52%) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; National Assn of Purchasing Management

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%)

PERSON: William Poole

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (78%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



5 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Japan Makes More Cars Elsewhere 

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 31 

 BODY:
Hitting a milestone, Japanese carmakers produced more vehicles abroad than at home for the first time last fiscal year, an industry group announced Monday.
 The 12 car and truck makers in Japan, which include Toyota, Honda and Nissan, built 10.93 million vehicles at their overseas factories in the year ended March 31, according to a report by the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association. That compares with 10.89 million vehicles that they produced in Japan, the group said.
The milestone indicates that the longtime strategy of Japanese auto makers to globalize production is paying off. More important, the trend will probably continue, and analysts say the pace may even be stepped up. 
 Analysts also said the figures reflected a recent scramble to increase production in China and grab a foothold in the world's fastest-growing major car market as well as their strong sales in the United States, where Toyota, Honda and Nissan have all expanded production. 
 At the same time, local production helps Japanese carmakers shield their revenue and profits from currency swings and helps them tailor designs to local tastes. 
 As growth in China and elsewhere in Asia continues, Japanese carmakers are well positioned to move in, and their rapid expansion plans, which bring jobs and tax revenue to the localities, have made Japanese automakers welcome investors in many countries. 
 Japan's production expansion abroad also reflects how the industry has changed from the 1980's and early 1990's, when Japan's surging auto exports were a source of bitter trade disputes with economic partners like the United States. The first Japanese car plant in the United States was Honda's factory in Marysville, Ohio, which opened in 1982.
 Since then, Japanese production has expanded on every major continent. According to 2005 figures, the most recent breakdown from the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association has 4.08 million vehicles made in the United States, 3.96 million in Asia, 1.55 million in Europe, 645,000 in Latin America, 226,000 in Africa, 135,000 in Australia and 10,500 in the Middle East. 
 While Japanese companies have been building cars overseas for decades, it is only in the last few years that they have essentially ended their reliance on cars and major car parts exported from Japan.
 Analysts said the figures also reflected the robust global demand for fuel-efficient Japanese cars at a time when General Motors and Ford had seen big losses on their North American operations. As companies like Nissan and Honda earn a majority of their sales and profits from overseas markets like the United States, they have been building more cars abroad to be nearer customers, analysts said.
 ''Japanese carmakers are going where their business is,'' said Koji Endo, an analyst for Credit Suisse First Boston here. ''It's a natural decision, given that their growth these days is all overseas.''
 Analysts say carmakers began stepping up overseas production in the 1990's as a strategy to avoid trade-related criticism by reducing reliance on exports, and by becoming large investors and employers in the markets where they sold vehicles. 
 More recently they have expanded local production for economic-related reasons, analysts said. Local production helps shield prices and profit margins from swings in value between the yen and the dollar and other currencies. It also allows them to cut shipping costs.
 The savings have become crucial as all carmakers have come under intense pressure to lower prices even as the cost of raw materials like steel and rubber has risen.
 The figures released Monday also gave a glimpse of the growing popularity abroad of Japanese cars, whose fuel efficiency has won consumers as the price of gas has passed $3 a gallon in the United States and is even higher in other countries. 
 The Japanese industry association said production at Japan's overseas plants jumped 10.6 percent from the previous year. That contrasts with production at domestic plants, which rose only 3 percent amid stagnating sales in Japan.
 Overseas production continued to show strong growth in the most recent quarter, the industry group said, rising 13.5 percent during the three months ended June 30, to 2.72 million vehicles.
 The initial resistance to Japanese auto investment is also fading. Even in America's industrial heartland, where Japanese cars were once smashed as symbols of lost jobs, local governments now compete to attract the foreign automakers. 
 With the Big Three closing plants and shedding jobs as they restructure, the Japanese are still building factories.
 For instance, Honda chose Greensburg, Ind., as the site for a $550 million assembly plant after state and local governments offered tax and other incentives worth $141 million.
 The factory, which starts production in 2008, is in addition to 17 factories already owned by Japanese vehicle makers in the United States that built 3.4 million vehicles last year, according to the Japanese industry association. 
 Japanese carmakers have been even more aggressive in China, where they have 33 factories, mostly joint ventures with local companies, the industry association said. The association's figures did not break out China, but showed that Japanese companies built 4.2 million vehicles in all Asian countries last year. Thailand has been a big production base for Japanese car companies, which have also begun expanding in India.
 Japanese companies are also using more locally made parts, analysts said. Japanese car plants used to be little more than assembly lines, slapping together parts imported from Japan. This earned the Japanese criticism for hording their best technology at home, and using foreign workers as low-skilled labor. But in recent years, cost pressures have driven Japanese companies to buy more and more parts from local makers, whose proximity to the plants allows them to deliver products cheaply and quickly, analysts say. 
 While cars made in developing countries like China still tend to be largely assembled from Japanese parts, autos built in more advanced markets like the United States now often contain 80 percent or 90 percent local parts, analysts said. 
 ''Japanese car companies still protect their top products,'' Mr. Endo of Credit Suisse said. ''But over all, they're like other international companies now.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jay Allen, left, and Brad Tatum inspect engines at the Toyota plant in Huntsville, Ala., one of 17 Japanese plants in the United States. (Photo by Gary Tramontina/Bloomberg News)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (96%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); TRADE DISPUTES (64%) 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (83%) Japan Automobile Manufacturers Assn; Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co; Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (51%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

PERSON: Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (59%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); AUSTRALIA (74%) Japan; China

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



6 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Cuny Relies More On Tuition 

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON (NYT); Compiled by Joseph P. Fried

 BODY:
Students are carrying a rising share of the cost of running the City University of New York, a city survey found. From 1989 to 2006, tuition and fees rose 94 percent in inflation-adjusted dollars, while the state's contribution fell 35 percent and the city's by 24 percent, according to a report issued yesterday by the New York City Independent Budget Office. It said that tuition and fees now account for 42 percent of CUNY's operating budget of $1.9 billion, up from only 20 percent in 1989. After financial aid is factored in, students still paid 26 percent of CUNY's revenues last year, up from 11 percent in 1989. CUNY's chancellor has proposed a ''compact'' to ensure that future tuition increases be matched by similar increases in government support, the report said. KAREN W. ARENSON (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (93%); BUDGETS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); RESEARCH REPORTS (88%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%) Colleges and Universities; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Colleges and Universities; Tuition

ORGANIZATION: City University of New York

PERSON: Karen W Arenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



7 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Offers Loans To Small Businesses

 BODY:
Low-interest loans of up to $1.5 million have become available to small businesses that suffered economic losses in the power failures last month, the federal Small Business Administration said yesterday.
 The agency will open a loan assistance center today at the Commerce Bank branch at 31-04 Ditmars Boulevard in Astoria, Queens, officials said. But businesses in Brooklyn, the Bronx and Nassau County are also eligible for loans at 4 percent interest for up to 30 years.
 ''If your business suffered substantial economic injury from this event, you are eligible to apply for assistance,'' said Frank Skaggs, director of the agency's Field Operations Center East. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (91%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (91%); POWER FAILURES (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (85%); BANK BRANCHES (55%) Electric Light and Power; Small Business; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (91%) Small Business Administration

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Queens (NYC); New York City; Nassau County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



8 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: As an Immigration Tide Swells, Europe Treads Water

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

DATELINE: Barcelona, Spain 

 BODY:
The African and South Asian peddlers who sell counterfeit handbags and DVD's and other sidewalk junk in the Barceloneta, a tourist-clotted neighborhood on this city's Mediterranean beachfront, have to be nimble to stay in business. They tie strings to the corners of the sheets on which they fussily display their goods, so they can instantly shoulder their inventory when the police arrive. At the first glimpse of a striding uniform they scramble, only to roost again for a few more minutes a few yards farther down the street. 
 It's an indolent game of toreador and bull, but without a coup de grace. Shumil Chowdhury, a Bangladeshi who arrived illegally a year ago, told me he had been arrested 10 times, with the usual consequence being three days in jail, though judges sometimes gave him a break because they realized he had no other way to make a living, and little hope of legalizing his status. 
In Barcelona, it is easy to find evidence of this halfhearted mix of tolerance and enforcement, where compassion and toughness cohabit in a way that seems designed to thwart an actual solution. But this attitude seems larger than this city, or Spain. 
 In Spain, long a gateway to immigrants from Europe's former colonies, people have grown accustomed to bad news on immigration. More than 11,000 Africans have crossed to the Canary Islands this year, more than double the total for 2005, and hundreds more have died trying. 
 The travails continue on land; last year in Barcelona, hundreds of immigrants barricaded themselves in Catholic churches, threatening to starve themselves unless they got work visas. The Catalan government, a redoubt of tolerance in a country whose immigration policies are already among the gentlest in Europe, relented, choosing the path of least resistance, as it has many times. A succession of amnesties has given hundreds of thousands of immigrants at least a theoretical path to legal status, though with bureaucratic hurdles that leave many unable to escape the status quo. 
 Spain has sought a more nuanced approach on immigrants and refugees than other countries in Europe, where underground populations are straining safety nets and heightening the continent's age-old prickliness about strangers. Spain's strategy -- undermining the shadow economy by smoothing legal pathways for migration and work -- has pointed a direction for the rest of Europe. But the immigrant tide is swelling. A desperate surge of boat people, not only in Spain but in Italy, Greece and tiny Malta, has made it increasingly obvious that the problem must be confronted on a broader scale.
 At a conference in Morocco in early July, delegates of 58 European and African countries pledged to attack the problem. Their agenda could have been photocopied from a Congressional staffer's binder in Washington: border controls, workplace enforcement, economic development south of the border, questions of assimilation and national identity. 
 The participation of north and south was hailed as a breakthrough, though the chance of success seemed dubious. The focus on immediate fixes -- more razor wire and sea patrols -- seems as quixotic in the Mediterranean as along the Rio Grande. The amount of development aid dangled to spur a crackdown by African governments against would-be migrants is far less than the remittances that African immigrants send home from Europe. And little was done about trade policies that cripple development in the third world and thus make Europe complicit in its own immigrant problems. 
 It's easy to understand the pessimism of people like Father Miguel Rodriguez, a priest in El Raval, Barcelona's immigrant ghetto. In El Raval, where dogs wander the narrow medieval streets below webs of fluttering laundry, Father Miguel feeds and clothes immigrants by the thousands, asking no questions about papers or religion. His organization is tolerated by the Catalan government and by the society figures he shrewdly courts with ceremonial medals and other flattery. They respond with smiles and kind words, though not much money.
 Father Miguel, who will celebrate 50 years as a priest this fall, confesses to weary skepticism about immigration. Immigrants absorb the decadent materialist values of the affluent north, he said, without participating in its prosperity. And the cohort of newcomers has brought its own streak of nastiness and criminality. Father Miguel has put a steel barricade on his shabby storefront, where thieves recently stole a printer. 
 But none of this has stopped the pragmatic Father Miguel from toiling as a fixer, matching immigrants with employers who vouch, not always honestly, for their charges. 
 A former colleague of Father Miguel's, the Rev. Joan Manuel Serra, who is 42 and has been a priest for only five years, retains a younger man's belief in goodness and progress. When I met him he was toting a backpack and shopping bag filled with a dozen bottles of cava, the local sparkling wine, to deliver to Father Miguel for a confirmation celebration. He, too, lamented the hole in Europe's soul, its hostility to people from other lands, but he also marveled at what he said was the growing willingness of Spain -- of Catalonia, anyway -- to accept the strangers in its midst. As evidence, he noted that Catalonia was close to electing an immigrant for president, the Socialist candidate Jose Montilla. 
 Such tolerance would have been unheard of in earlier generations, Father Joan said.
 His enthusiasm was sincere, though -- as with any discussion of immigration in Europe -- it looks a little different through an American prism. Mr. Montilla was born in Cordoba, in the south of Spain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUNTERFEITING (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); ARRESTS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); AMNESTY (72%); REFUGEES (72%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); STARVATION (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); RELIGION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%) 

PERSON: Lawrence Downes

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (93%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (93%) SPAIN (99%); EUROPE (97%); AFRICA (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); CANARY ISLANDS (92%); MOROCCO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); MALTA (78%); GREECE (73%) Europe; Spain; Africa; Canary Islands; Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



9 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Health&Fitness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2302 words

HEADLINE: MEDICINE THEN AND NOW: Legionnaires' Disease THE DOCTOR'S WORLD; In Philadelphia 30 Years Ago, An Eruption of Illness and Fear

BYLINE: By Lawrence K. Altman, M.D.. 
Medicine Then and Now: This is the first in a series of columns looking back at important developments in medicine over the last 40 years. Other topics will include the Nobel Prizes in medicine, international AIDS conferences and medical rounds.

 BODY:
In late July 1976, American Legionnaires returning from a state convention in Philadelphia began to fall ill with mysterious symptoms: pneumonia and fevers topping 107 degrees.
By early August, news organizations across the country were reporting that 6 to 14 of the men in Pennsylvania had died. Others were in hospitals fighting for their lives. No laboratory tests could determine the cause of their illness, which quickly became known as Legionnaires' disease. No one knew the health status of the 10,000 other convention participants.
 As the news began to break, 30 years ago this week, Americans were primed for the threat of an epidemic. The Ford administration was making plans to vaccinate every American against a new strain of influenza, known as swine flu, after repeated warnings from government officials that a devastating epidemic could strike without warning. Michael Crichton's ''Andromeda Strain'' had become a best seller. And some scientists were calling for a moratorium on laboratory efforts to genetically engineer microbes for fear they might create a monster germ.
 These factors made the unexpected attack on American veterans, which occurred shortly after the country's bicentennial celebration, front-page news. 
 When I first heard about the mysterious cases from news agency bulletins on Aug. 2, I initially viewed them with some skepticism. A few months earlier, Dr. Leonard Bachman, the Pennsylvania health secretary, issued a news release saying that a staff member, Dr. Buford S. Washington, had discovered an often fatal new disease, pantosomatitis, that was spreading throughout the eastern United States. Looking into the claim, I found there was no documented case and no such disease.
 Disease outbreaks were familiar territory for me. Before coming to The New York Times, I'd been an Epidemic Intelligence Service officer at the Communicable Disease Center, now the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in Atlanta. If the Legionnaires' outbreak had occurred a decade sooner, I might have been one of the investigators sent to Pennsylvania.
 Health officials there urged the public not to panic, and some initially denied that the cluster of cases was an outbreak of an infectious disease. But behind the scenes, the same officials were bracing themselves for a medical catastrophe.
 ''We thought we might be faced with an unprecedented condition in modern medicine, one for which we had no really effective antibiotics, drugs or therapy,'' Dr. Bachman told me in 1976. Because there was no way to predict how many more Legionnaires would fall ill, Dr. Bachman said he had contemplated seizing control of all hospitals in the state and imposing quarantines.
 It took six months to determine that the illness had been caused by a bacterium, Legionella pneumophilia, which we now know usually succumbs to the timely prescription of proper antibiotics. The bacterium, which in this case was apparently spread from the hotel's air-conditioning system, is a cause of pneumonia and other illnesses worldwide.
 The investigation that solved the mystery took an array of surprising twists and turns. It revealed the strengths and weaknesses of the nation's health system in response to an outbreak from an unknown agent. 
 Some lessons learned from the outbreak improved investigations of later outbreaks like avian flu, SARS and the deliberate release of anthrax spores in the postal system shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks. But many authorities have not learned other important lessons, like the need for more effective communication.
 Intense news coverage of the Legionnaires' outbreak continued for weeks, providing one of the rare opportunities for the public to see how medical detectives work and how scientists make discoveries.
 The epic challenged the widespread notion that medicine was all-knowing, able to lick almost any problem, and that antibiotics and vaccines had turned once lethal infectious diseases into minor threats.
 The news coverage also marked a turning point in journalism's efforts to hold officials accountable for their response to epidemics that can threaten the lives of thousands of people, as well as tourism, international trade and world economies. News about the outbreak led to the temporary closing of the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, a Philadelphia landmark that was the headquarters of the American Legion convention and a focus of suspicion about the spread of the bacterium.
 The C.D.C. sent 20 epidemiologists -- the largest squad of medical detectives to investigate an outbreak in the federal agency's history -- to Pennsylvania where they joined scores of state health workers.
 The sleuths fanned across the state to review the medical records of all the ill Legionnaires and to study the autopsy findings in the fatal cases. Epidemiologists also checked every hospital to identify new cases and interview patients' families and doctors, in part to determine whether one or more Legionnaires might have taken the illness to Philadelphia.
 On Aug. 2, when news agencies began issuing dispatches, a quick look convinced me that the Legionnaires' cases were real, not another false alarm. Late that evening, I finished my first article about the still-unnamed mysterious disease. 
 Then I drove to Harrisburg, listening to the radio to keep me awake but unable to escape the repetitious news accounts about the outbreak, the speculation that the illness was swine flu and the safety concerns about visiting Philadelphia.
 The Times handled the story more cautiously than radio and television. My article, on Page 12, was not even included in the news summary.
 Over the next few days, the toll of the illness rose. The final count was 221 cases, including 34 deaths.
 As a physician, I wanted to see the patients who were recovering or fighting to stay alive and to learn what leads were being developed from the interviews. 
 In Chambersburg, Pa., I joined Dr. Stephen B. Thacker, then a rookie in the C.D.C. epidemiology program. We interviewed a Legionnaire, Thomas A. Payne, 48, whose temperature rose to 107.4 degrees before he was put in a cooling blanket.
 We felt safe entering his room because we followed standard precautions, wearing yellow masks, white gowns and gloves. In introducing us, Dr. Thacker told Mr. Payne that he ''was part of the medical team investigating this weird disease.''
 Dr. Thacker, who later became the head of the epidemiology program, asked Mr. Payne a number of questions related to the onset of his illness, how he had felt since, where he had stayed in Philadelphia and what convention events he had attended. Then Dr. Thacker sent the information to colleagues in Harrisburg.
 Two weeks later, I interviewed another hospital patient who had driven with four Legionnaires from their home in Saltillo, Pa., to Philadelphia where they had stayed at the same hotel and were together for nearly all the convention events. But no one could figure out why only that patient had developed the disease.
 The anecdote illustrates the kinds of dead ends that epidemiologists, like criminal detectives, encounter and that scientific journals rarely publish. They and other factors create a false impression that investigations and discoveries are simpler than they really are.
 A week into the investigation, health officials were relieved as a second outbreak failed to develop among those attending an international religious meeting in Philadelphia and no spread of the ailment occurred from Legionnaires' patients to their families and friends.
 Tests also excluded all forms of influenza as a cause of the outbreak. ''All of us can breathe a sigh of relief it was not the flu,'' said Dr. David J. Sencer, then the C.D.C. director.
 If not influenza, what was the illness? Earlier tests had ruled out poisoning from 17 metals. But experts in a variety of specialties who were not connected with the outbreak had called or written to me and health officials to suggest a number of toxins.
 Stumped, health officials re-examined the possibility of other toxins or poison gases. One poison, nickel carbonyl, was a long shot that health officials took seriously, only to be embarrassed by flaws in the collection of the tissues for testing. The initial nickel findings were ruled invalid because of probable contamination from the use of metal instruments in autopsies. Pathologists were then ordered to use plastic knives.
 Reports of the lapses in investigation technique jarred public confidence about the ability of health departments to detect outbreaks from hazardous chemicals. The flaws also led to a Congressional hearing in the fall on the medical investigation, causing federal and state health officials further embarrassment.
 By winter, many of the authorities said the outbreak's cause was definitely not a bacterium and that it would never be known. But the doubters overlooked the importance that human factors like compulsiveness, embarrassment and public pressure can play in solving scientific riddles and making discoveries.
 At Christmastime in 1976, Dr. Joseph McDade, a C.D.C. laboratory scientist who had tested specimens from the outbreak, was harshly criticized at a party for his agency's failure to solve the mystery. 
 Dr. McDade said his usual custom at that time of year was to ''tidy up loose ends,'' so when he went to his laboratory ''to put to rest some hunches about something'' he had seen in the specimens, the insult lurked in the background.
 Within a month, Dr. McDade had identified the culprit and showed that Legionnaires' was a newly recognized old disease. The bacterium had been isolated at least twice before by different groups of researchers at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in Washington starting in 1947. Each group believed it was dealing with a bacterium that affected animals, not humans.
 Dr. McDade's discovery quickly led scientists to document a number of earlier outbreaks in Pontiac, Mich.; Washington; and elsewhere. Legionnaires' disease now accounts for an estimated 18,000 hospital admissions in this country each year, and C.D.C. scientists have said that doctors miss the diagnosis in many more patients. Most outbreaks and cases have been traced to contaminated water in places like shower heads, air-conditioning systems and medical respiratory devices. The largest outbreak, in Spain in 2001, affected nearly 700 people.
 The Legionnaire bacterium can produce two forms of illness that begin with flulike symptoms. One, Legionnaires' disease, goes on to produce pneumonia and systemic illness. The other, Pontiac fever, produces only a mild illness. Why the same bacterium causes two distinct illness patterns is not known.
 Seamless teamwork between epidemiologists and laboratory scientists can be a potent weapon in solving disease outbreaks caused by known and unknown agents. But the teamwork in the Pennsylvania outbreak was porous, as lapses in investigation technique showed.
 From the start, the investigation encountered a number of problems, some beyond their control. One was that the American Legion had no registration list of conventioneers, leaving no easy way to contact attendees to check on their health.
 In investigating outbreaks, epidemiologists often develop questionnaires, in part to make statistical comparisons between those who become ill and those who do not. 
 Another aim is to determine the priority in performing laboratory tests to determine the cause of an illness. But the longer the delay in starting this medical sleuthing, the fuzzier people's recall of events becomes. A problem was that health officials could have learned of the outbreak earlier than they did. For example, a physician in Pennsylvania called health officials on July 30, a Friday afternoon, to report a Legionnaire with possible typhoid fever. It was too late in the day, call back on Monday, a nurse said.
 The episode illustrated that many health departments did not provide the type of 24/7 coverage for calls and emergencies that hospitals and doctors did. Now more health departments provide such coverage.
 Still another problem was that Philadelphia health officials learned belatedly about an earlier outbreak of 19 cases of an illness similar to Legionnaires' disease, including three deaths. It affected members of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows in 1974 after they had visited the Bellevue-Stratford. The cluster was not reported until after news of the Legionnaires' outbreak in 1976.
 However, there were widespread complaints about a number of issues over which health officials had some control. One was the lack of coordination between investigators from federal, state and local health departments and determining which was in charge.
 Doctors who cooperated in providing information and specimens from Legionnaires' patients said they had received little feedback from health officials. For example, some doctors said antibiotics were effective in their patients and urged wider use of them in the outbreak. But health officials gave no advice, largely because they could not scientifically evaluate the effectiveness of the antibiotics among the patients quickly enough.
 The issue of providing such evaluations of therapy during an outbreak remains an important problem; many doctors and others lodged the same complaint against the C.D.C. in the anthrax outbreak in 2001. Some critics said they learned more about the outbreak from news organizations than from the agency.
 In the case of Legionnaires', persistent pressure from the news media, a number of health officials said later, helped hold them accountable and to spur scientists to do what they rarely had done in other unsolved cases and outbreaks -- taking a crucial second look that solved the Legionnaires' outbreak.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A DEADLY OUTBREAK -- A snapshot from an American Legion convention in Philadelphia in July 1976. Within a month, an infectious disease killed two of these men. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. F1)
 AILING LEGIONNAIRE -- Dr. Stephen B. Thacker, a federal epidemiologist, in August 1976 with Thomas A. Payne, whose fever spiked at 107.4 degrees. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESPIRATORY DISEASE (94%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); PNEUMONIA (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); BACTERIA (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); DISEASE REPORTING (76%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (93%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006



10 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Large Clients Cut Extras, Easing Strain On Con Ed

BYLINE: By EMILY VASQUEZ

 BODY:
It is weeks like these, with a heat wave, one blackout a fresh memory and the possibility of more hanging overhead with the humidity, that help keep Mike Gordon in business.
 Mr. Gordon, 49, is a consultant whose company, Consumer Powerline, helps owners and managers of large commercial buildings devise plans for efficient energy use. In times of crisis, the company carries out the conservation plans to earn credits from energy providers, like Consolidated Edison, when systems are strained.
By conserving, his clients can collectively reduce their consumption by about 100 megawatts per hour during a crisis, he said. One megawatt can provide electricity to 800 to 1,000 homes. 
 ''You can either ratchet up the power plant a lot or you can ratchet down the consumption, and it doesn't make any difference,'' he said.
 Mr. Gordon, who said his customers include Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, Macy's and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, gets a commission on the credit his clients earn based on the reduction.
 It is an arrangement that seems to benefit everybody, said David Lawrence, who oversees demand response programs for New York Independent System Operator, even though far from every eligible company in the state takes advantage.
 ''Getting businesses interested and recognizing that it's economically feasible is probably the biggest barrier,'' he said. ''It's tough to change that mentality.'' 
 Con Edison has its own program to enlist its largest customers to cut back when demand is at its highest. During a heat wave like the one this week, even a real estate firm can become a source of the city's power.
 The Durst Organization, which owns and manages office buildings in Manhattan, is part of Con Edison's Emergency Demand Response Program. Durst essentially earns a credit for the electricity that it does not use, and Con Edison credits Durst with 45 cents per kilowatt hour. The credit is based on a reduction of its previous use. 
 If the cost per kilowatt hour, which is updated throughout the day and varies by location, creeps higher than 45 cents, Con Edison also increases its reimbursement. Energy that would have gone to Durst is then free to flow elsewhere. 
 Through the Emergency Demand Response Program, one of several buyback plans offered since 2001, Con Edison gains 124 megawatts per hour, according to Elizabeth Clark, a spokeswoman for the utility. 
 More than 100 companies take part in a plan to sell their energy back to Con Edison. Across the state, about 2,500 businesses have joined similar plans, according to the New York Independent System Operator, a nonprofit organization that helps to oversee the reliability of the state's electric power providers.
 And whatever sacrifices Durst makes to save between one and two megawatts an hour, about 10 percent of its normal consumption, turns out to be bearable, said the company's co-president, Jody Durst.
 In its office buildings, lobby lights are cut, the air-conditioning is set at a warmer temperature and one or two cars in each bank of elevators are turned off for most of the day.
 At one Durst property, the 52-story Conde Nast building at 4 Times Square, the system that pulls fresh air into the building is modified to limit the amount of hot air it will need to cool.
 On top of savings from the conservation efforts, the company can pull in about $675 an hour in credits when Con Edison issues a demand for reductions.
 ''These programs take stress off equipment,'' said Ms. Clark, the Con Edison spokeswoman. She added that the company has maintained that there is adequate supply to meet this summer's energy needs.
 Mr. Durst said he sees it as a bargaining chip with prospective tenants. Energy-saving measures also lead to lower operating costs. A tenant considering a similar space with similar rent could be swayed by lower utility fees, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); WEATHER (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); RESORTS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%) Electric Light and Power; Weather

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Consolidated Edison Inc

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); HOT (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%)

PERSON: Emily Vasquez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



11 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: United's First Profit in 6 Years

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 31 

 BODY:
United Airlines' parent, the UAL Corporation, on Monday formally announced its first true quarterly profit since 2000 -- further evidence of an improvement in the financial situation of many United States carriers despite steep prices for fuel. 
 UAL benefited from higher fares and more crowded planes as paying customers seemingly accepted a number of modest fare increases in the first half of 2006.
Years of painful cost-cutting in the airline industry have helped stem the flow of red ink. An industry consultant, John Pincavage in Westport, Conn., said, ''What you're seeing is the benefits of bankruptcies or threatened bankruptcies, in terms of the concessions they've received from labor and creditors.''
 UAL, reaffirming its improved expectations disclosed a week ago, reported income for the April-through-June period of 93 cents a share. That was in contrast to a loss of $1.43 billion, or $12.33 a share, a year earlier when the company was operating under bankruptcy protection. UAL emerged from bankruptcy in February.
 Revenue in the quarter grew more than 15 percent, to $5.11 billion, from $4.42 billion. 
 It was the first period in the black for the company, based in Elk Grove Village, Ill., outside Chicago, since a profit of $408 million in the second quarter of 2000.
 Packed planes, for United and other airlines, reflect both a healthy economy and the many fewer seats available because of an industrywide reduction in capacity. United took 20 percent of its fleet out of operation during its three-year makeover in bankruptcy, shifting to smaller, more fuel-efficient planes on many routes.
 In the first quarter, UAL officially reported a $22.9 billion gain on paper, but that reflected a formal settling of accounts from bankruptcy and was not regarded as a true profit.
 Despite the announcement, in trading Monday, UAL shares fell $1.38, or 5 percent, to $26.14.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%) 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (93%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Ual Corp; United Airlines

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



12 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cheats Called Out Of Control 

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
So many superrich Americans evade taxes using offshore accounts that law enforcement cannot control the growing misconduct, according to a Senate report that provides the most detailed look ever at high-level tax schemes.
 Among the billionaires cited in the report are the owner of the New York Jets football team, Robert Wood Johnson IV; the producer of the ''Mighty Morphin Power Rangers'' children's show, Haim Saban; and two Texas businessmen, Charles and Sam Wyly, who the Center for Public Integrity found in 2000 were the ninth-largest contributors to President Bush.
Mr. Johnson and Mr. Saban, who are portrayed as victims in the report, are scheduled to testify today before the Senate Permanent Investigations subcommittee. They are expected to say that professional advisers assured them their deals to avoid taxes were more likely lawful than not. The Wyly brothers told the committee that they would invoke their Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination and thus were not called to testify. The report characterizes them as active participants in tax schemes.
 Cheating now equals about 7 cents out of each dollar paid by honest taxpayers, as much as $70 billion a year, the report estimated. 
 ''The universe of offshore tax cheating has become so large that no one, not even the United States government, could go after all of it,'' said Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat whose staff ran the investigation.
 Senator Norm Coleman, the Minnesota Republican who is chairman of the subcommittee, adopted the minority report on Sunday as the product of the full committee.
 The report details how the Quellos Group, a tax shelter boutique based in Seattle, ''concocted a tax shelter'' using $9.6 billion ''worth of fake securities transactions that were used to generate billions of dollars of fake capital losses.''
 Senator Levin said that when investigators asked for trading records they were first told the trades were private, over-the-counter transactions. He said investigators asked for trading tickets or other evidence of who owned the $9.6 billion worth of stock and were told the stocks were never owned by the parties involved.
 ''They just wrote down numbers on paper and claimed losses,'' he said. ''It was just like fantasy baseball, except the taxes not paid were for real.''
 Quellos, in a statement, said, ''we fundamentally disagree with the report, which presents a one-sided view.'' It said the transactions, which the Senate committee describes as fabrications, were real and involved ''a significant possibility of economic gain and loss.''
 The investigation, which took 18 months, involved 74 subpoenas, 80 interviews and the collection of more than two million documents, and yet Senator Levin said ''the six cases we present are just examples, just a pinhole look.''
 The 400-page report recommends eight changes, some of them aimed at going after the law and accounting firms, banks and investment advisers that the report says enable tax schemes that rely on complexity, secrecy and compartmentalizing information so that advisers can claim they had no idea that the overall transaction was a fraud.
 ''We need to significantly strengthen the aiding and abetting statutes to get at the lawyers and accountants and other advisers who enable this cheating,'' Senator Levin said, adding that ''we need major changes in law to stop the use of tax havens'' by tax cheats.
 It also recommends new rules that strip away the underlying legal presumptions that make offshore tax havens like the Cayman Islands, Nevis, the Isle of Man and Panama attractive places for Americans to hide assets and income from the Internal Revenue Service.
 Senator Levin said the law ''should assume that any transaction in a tax haven is a sham.''
 He said that during the investigation he grew angry as he learned how common cheating had become and how existing government rules aided tax cheats. He said that complex schemes were broken into discrete pieces, allowing professional advisers working on each piece to assert that they had no idea that, taken as a whole, a scheme was improper.
 ''I get incensed by people who use tax havens to not pay their taxes while the average guy has to pay his taxes because they are taken out of his pay before he gets it,'' he said.
 Both Mr. Johnson, the football team owner and scion of the Johnson & Johnson health care fortune, and Mr. Saban, the television mogul, are portrayed in the report as victims.
 The two men, through representatives, said yesterday that they relied on professional advisers who told them the transactions were lawful, and that they were now settling with the Internal Revenue Service.
 Mr. Johnson, known as Woody, told Senate investigators two weeks ago that to buy the Jets in 1999 he had to sell assets, incurring the 20 percent tax on long-term capital gains in effect at the time. He said that a way to defer the tax was proposed by Larry B. Scheinfeld, who had been his accountant at KPMG until he joined Quellos, where he worked closely with Chuck Wilk, a tax lawyer.
 The technique involved a complex set of circular transactions using what the Senate report characterized as sham corporations in the Isle of Man with shell corporations given names like Jackstones. Their ownership was kept secret.
 ''Ain't capitalism great!'' Mr. Wilk wrote to Mr. Scheinfeld in an e-mail message extolling the tax benefits of the Johnson deal. Three weeks later, when the deal was set, Mr. Scheinfeld wrote back: ''I just hope Woody doesn't get cold feet or have the I.R.S. select his return for an audit!''
 The report details a scheme created for Mr. Saban to avoid more than $300 million in taxes from sale of his half interest in the Family Channel and related properties.
 Mr. Saban told Senate investigators that he never understood the transactions but undertook them after asking two questions of Mr. Wilk and his personal tax lawyer, Matthew Krane.
 Mr. Saban said he asked whether the deals were legal and whether a major law firm would certify them as proper. The two lawyers, Mr. Saban said, answered ''yes to both,'' so he went ahead.
 Later, when Mr. Saban learned that he had paid $54 million in fees to Quellos; Cravath Swaine & Moore, a New York law firm; and others for what turned out to be what the report described as fake transactions, he said he felt ''misled, lied to and cheated.''
 Lewis R. Steinberg, who as a Cravath Swaine partner helped design the deal and wrote an opinion letter attesting that it was more likely than not to work as a tax shelter, told Senate investigators last week that he relied on assurances from Quellos and Mr. Johnson that real transactions took place, not fake trades. Mr. Steinberg, who is now at UBS Securities, another firm named in the report, is a prominent tax lawyer and in 2004 was chairman of the tax section of the American Bar Association.
 The report also dissects deals by the Wyly brothers of Texas, showing how they made at least $190 million through stock option exercises offshore but had yet to pay taxes on most of the money. They then borrowed against their offshore accounts to buy jewelry, pay for portraits of family members, buy homes and operate properties named Rosemary's Circle R Ranch, LL Ranch, Stargate Horse Farm, Cottonwood Galleries and 36 Malibu Colony.
 Senator Levin said he might propose limiting or barring the transferring of executive stock options to others, as well as more disclosure when they are exercised.
 The report says that Credit Suisse First Boston, Lehman Brothers and Bank of America ''all knew that the offshore entities''for which they made trades were associated with the Wylys, but ignored rules requiring disclosure of these transactions and helped them hide the true ownership of the assets. Only when Robert M. Morgenthau, the New York District attorney, issued subpoenas in 2004 did Bank of America close the Wyly accounts.
 William Brewer, a Dallas lawyer for the Wylys, said that while the Senate report ''intends to present a balanced view, the committee report is reflective of a number of misunderstandings.''
 ''The Wylys believe they have paid all taxes due,'' he added. ''And in any event, as the report makes clear, the Wylys were counseled by an armada of lawyers, brokers, financial professionals and offshore service providers to ensure that they were at all times fully meeting their obligations.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 5, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about a Senate investigation into offshore tax shelters referred incorrectly to the legal background of Lewis R. Steinberg, a former partner at Cravath Swaine & Moore, who wrote an opinion letter in 2004 while at the firm that one shelter in question was probably legal. At the time, he was head of the tax section of the New York State Bar Association, not the American Bar Association.
 The article also referred imprecisely to Cravath Swaine's involvement with the Quellos Group, an investment advisory group in Seattle that designed several tax shelters, including one sold to the media investor Haim Saban. While the law firm gave advice to Quellos concerning the structure of the shelters, and wrote four letters that they were more likely legal than not, it did not write an opinion letter for Mr. Saban. And while the law firm did do legal work for Quellos, it did not have Mr. Saban as a client.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Carl Levin discussed tax abuses at a briefing yesterday in Washington. Cheating accounts for as much as $70 billion a year. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
Robert Wood Johnson IV, left, owner of the New York Jets football team
Sam Wyly, center, a Texas businessman
and Haim Saban, the producer of the ''Mighty Morphin Power Rangers'' children's show. (Photos by From left, Cale Merege/Bloomberg News
Kevin P. Coughlin/Bloomberg
 Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (94%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TESTIMONY (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SUBPOENAS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BASEBALL (72%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (72%); SPORTS (72%) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%); TEXAS RANGERS (83%); NEW YORK RANGERS (83%) Center for Public Integrity; Quellos Group

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NORM COLEMAN (58%) Robert Wood Iv Johnson; Haim Saban; Charles Wyly; Sam Wyly; George W (Pres) Bush; Carl (Sen) Levin; David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



13 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Speaks of Rural Concerns, Upstate and Nationwide

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: CAMBRIA, N.Y., July 31 

 BODY:
Reaching out to rural voters in New York and elsewhere in the nation, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton called on Monday for increasing federal support for struggling farm communities to revitalize rural America.
 In a speech delivered on a 152-year-old family farm, Mrs. Clinton called for major federal investments to expand broadband Internet access in rural communities, promote the development of alternative fuel sources like corn-based ethanol and encourage medical school graduates to practice in agricultural areas.
''We can build a new rural future,'' Mrs. Clinton said, after listing economic problems that she said have led many Americans to abandon rural life. ''We can bring back our Main Streets. We can keep people, particularly young people, here.'' 
 The speech, given about 20 miles north of Buffalo at Robinson Farms, underscored efforts the senator has made to address the economic concerns in the traditional Republican strongholds of upstate New York.
 In the speech, for example, Mrs. Clinton reminded her audience of the work she had done on behalf of the region, including the creation of an advisory panel that has helped her devise agricultural policy.
 But, politically speaking, Mrs. Clinton's effort to appeal to voters in this part of the state may have as much to do with 2008 presidential politics as it does with her re-election efforts this year. Her associates say that she and her advisers are well aware that capturing a substantial portion of the upstate vote could help her achieve a substantial margin of victory in November that could, in turn, give her momentum in advance of a potential presidential bid.
 But as important, making inroads in the state's Republican strongholds would demonstrate her broad political appeal, at a time when critics in both parties say she is too polarizing to win a nationwide race by attracting moderate voters.
 Nationally, rural voters play a significant role in presidential elections, particularly in places like Iowa and New Hampshire, states that provide early tests of a candidate's strength.
 In that context, Mrs. Clinton's speech here offered an opportunity to preview the themes she might touch on in a national campaign.
 At one point, for example, the senator drew sustained applause when she said that she would push for mandatory labeling of farm produce to assist Americans who want to consume only homegrown products. ''I don't think it's fair that the consumer who might want to know that these are New York apples won't be told they're New York apples and they buy Chinese apples,'' she said. ''If they want to buy Chinese apples, fine, but let's make sure they know.''
 Mrs. Clinton blamed the Bush administration's ''misplaced priorities'' in part for the troubles afflicting rural America -- priorities that she said included giving tax breaks to oil companies reaping record profits.
 ''If we create a government structure that instead of subsidizing oil companies, subsidizes farmers and producers of ethanol, we will revolutionize how we do fuel, and we will lower the cost because we won't be dependent upon foreign oil,'' she said.
 Mrs. Clinton's speech drew a swift rebuke from Republicans, who said it amounted to political opportunism. ''This is less about Hillary Clinton's commitment to rural America and more about her commitment to her own political ambitions,'' said Tracey Schmitt, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee.
 In her speech, Mrs. Clinton painted a bleak portrait of rural America, one of population decline, low-wage jobs and poverty.
 Among her proposals were forgiving college loans for medical school graduates who agree to work in rural communities and providing tax credits for home purchases and new businesses in those communities.
 Mrs. Clinton also argued that a national broadband policy driven largely by marketplace forces had left rural America behind. She proposed legislation to establish an office charged with overseeing the expansion of broadband Internet access outside urban areas.
 ''A lot of rural America is being left off the broadband grid,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at Robinson Farms with Donald Robinson, left, and his son and daughter-in-law, Greg and Tania Robinson. (Photo by Doug Benz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); AGRICULTURE (76%); ETHANOL (76%); BUDGETS (75%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); ALCOHOLS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); PRODUCT LABELING (60%); BROADBAND (57%) Election Issues; Agriculture; Rural Areas; Presidential Election of 2008; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%) Raymond Hernandez; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



14 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Ailing Castro Temporarily Gives Up Power 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: HAVANA, July 31 

 BODY:
Fidel Castro, who took control of Cuba in 1959, rebuffed repeated attempts by the United States to oust him and survived Communism's demise almost everywhere else, temporarily relinquished power to his brother Raul on Monday night because of surgery. 
 The Cuban leader said he had undergone surgery after suffering gastrointestinal bleeding, apparently as a result of stress from recent public appearances in Argentina and Cuba, according to the letter read live on television by his secretary, Carlos Valenciaga. 
''The operation obligates me to undertake several weeks of rest,'' the letter read, adding that extreme stress ''had provoked in me a sharp intestinal crisis with sustained bleeding that obligated me to undergo a complicated surgical procedure.''
 Mr. Castro said he was temporarily relinquishing the presidency to his younger brother and successor, Raul Castro, the defense minister, but said the move was of ''a provisional character.''
 The elder Mr. Castro asked that celebrations scheduled for his 80th birthday on Aug. 13 be postponed until Dec. 2, the 50th anniversary of the Revolutionary Armed Forces.
 Mr. Castro said he would also temporarily relinquish his duties as first secretary of the Communist Party of Cuba to Raul Castro, who turned 75 in June and has been taking on a more public profile in recent weeks.
 In power since the triumph of the Cuban revolution on Jan. 1, 1959, Mr. Castro is the world's longest-ruling head of government. Only King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, crowned in 1946, and Queen Elizabeth, crowned in 1952, have been heads of state longer.
 The announcement drew cheering in the streets in Miami. People waved Cuban flags on Calle Ocho in Little Havana, shouting ''Cuba, Cuba, Cuba,'' hoping that the end is near for the man most of them consider to be a ruthless dictator.
 There were hugs, cheers and dancing as drivers honked their horns. Many of the revelers had fled the Communist island or have parents and grandparents who did. 
 In the Cuban capital, waiters at a popular cafe were momentarily stunned as they watched the news. But they quickly got back to work and put on brave faces.
 ''He'll get better, without a doubt,'' said Agustin Lopez, 40. ''There are really good doctors here, and he's extremely strong.''
 Mr. Castro rose to power after an armed revolution he led drove out then-President Fulgencio Batista.
 The United States was the first country to recognize Mr. Castro, but his radical economic reforms and rapid trials of Batista supporters quickly unsettled American leaders.
 Washington eventually imposed a trade embargo on the island and severed diplomatic ties. Mr. Castro seized American property and businesses and turned to the Soviet Union for military and economic assistance.
 On April 16, 1961, Mr. Castro declared his revolution to be socialist. The next day, he humiliated the United States by capturing more than 1,100 exile soldiers in the Bay of Pigs invasion.
 The world neared nuclear conflict on Oct. 22, 1962, when President John F. Kennedy announced that there were Soviet nuclear missiles in Cuba. After a tense week of diplomacy, the Soviet leader, Nikita S. Khrushchev, removed them.
 Talk of Mr. Castro's mortality was long taboo on the island, but that ended on June 23, 2001, when he fainted during a speech in the sun. 
 Mr. Castro typically laughed off rumors about his health. ''They have tried to kill me off so many times,'' Mr. Castro said in a 2005 speech, adding he felt ''better than ever.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 3, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An Associated Press article on Tuesday about the incapacitation of Fidel Castro, who has ruled Cuba since 1959, referred incorrectly in some copies to the head of state who has served the longest. He is King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, crowned in 1946 -- not Queen Elizabeth II, crowned in 1952.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Fidel Castro of Cuba and his brother Raul in Havana in 2001. (Photo by Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); GRANDPARENTS (67%); ISLANDS & REEFS (61%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (93%); RAUL CASTRO (93%) Fidel (Pres) Castro; Raul Castro

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%); ARGENTINA (92%); THAILAND (74%) Cuba; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



15 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: On Miami Trip, Bush Team Addresses Storm Readiness

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 31 

 BODY:
As the peak of the tropical storm season approaches, President Bush sought to assure the nation on Monday that his administration had learned the lessons of Hurricane Katrina and was ready to handle another epic natural disaster.
 But Mr. Bush sent the message with pictures, not words.
In a daylong visit to Miami that the White House said was intended to spotlight ''economic growth and hurricane preparedness,'' Mr. Bush visited the National Hurricane Center, chatting in front of the cameras with scientists who track tropical storms but not taking any questions. 
 In remarks to reporters and in a separate speech at the Port of Miami, the president made no formal mention of storm preparations, leaving it to the new director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, R. David Paulison, and the White House press secretary, Tony Snow, to convey the readiness message.
 ''People have learned a lot from Katrina in time to draw the lessons,'' Mr. Snow told reporters after the president's speech at the port, which touched on the economy, port security, immigration, free trade and the Middle East.
 The White House says it has vastly improved its communications capabilities and has fortified its stockpile of supplies since Hurricane Katrina. The number of disaster assistance employees has doubled to 8,000 from 4,000, and the supply of ready-to-eat meals has increased by 300 percent, to 770 truckloads from 180 before the storm -- enough food, Mr. Paulison said, to feed a million people for a week.
 '''I want to make this country proud of FEMA again,'' he said, ''and I think we can do that.''
 Aside from the visit to the hurricane center, Mr. Bush's trip to Miami included a breakfast with Cuban-American leaders and a half-hour boat tour of the port facilities aboard the Gannet, a coastal patrol boat flying the United States flag, a blue flag with the presidential seal and the black P.O.W.-M.I.A. flag. Mr. Bush was joined at the breakfast at a bakery in Little Havana by his brother Gov. Jeb Bush.
 Resentment lingers here and throughout the Gulf Coast over the administration's response to Hurricane Katrina. The director Spike Lee, who has criticized the White House, has made a documentary on the storm, ''When the Levees Broke: A Requiem in Four Acts.'' It is scheduled to be broadcast on HBO in late August, to coincide with the anniversary of the hurricane.
 Mr. Snow, the press secretary, said he did not know if the president would watch the film. But Mr. Paulison said he might.
 ''I probably would, yes, if I'm not doing hurricane stuff,'' Mr. Paulison said, adding: ''I'm taking this very seriously. I'm not taking it personally.''
 Mr. Paulison, who replaced Michael D. Brown after Mr. Brown's resignation amid public complaints over his performance, said he had been briefing the president regularly on hurricane preparedness. The most recent session was last Friday, he said, and included members of the president's cabinet.
 ''One of the things I talked about was the chain of command and how we're going to share information,'' he said, adding that the president ''wants to make sure that information flow is going to move like it should move, and not end up like we did with Katrina last year.''
 The hurricane season officially runs from June 1 to Nov. 31, but experts say 80 percent of hurricanes occur during the peak season, which begins in August. At the hurricane center, the president suggested that the busy season would conclude at the end of September, prompting the director, Max Mayfield, to gently correct him.
 ''Actually, mid-October,'' Mr. Mayfield said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush spoke yesterday at a Coast Guard site in Miami and visited the National Hurricane Center. (Photo by Marc Serota/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); NATURAL DISASTERS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); DISASTER PLANNING (90%); WEATHER (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); HARBORS & PORTS (74%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (69%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (65%); IMMIGRATION (52%) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (56%) National Hurricane Center

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); R DAVID PAULISON (79%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (95%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Miami (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



16 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: In Shadow of Senate Race, 2 Other Connecticut Candidates Face Off

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: HARTFORD, July 31 

 BODY:
For more than a year, they have eyed each other warily, raising money, lining up allies, refining their proposals and reaching out to rank-and-file Democrats as they prepared to run for governor of Connecticut. 
 But now that next Tuesday's primary approaches, the candidates, Mayor Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford and Mayor John DeStefano Jr. of New Haven, have ended up as little more than afterthoughts as Senator Joseph I. Lieberman battles for survival against Ned Lamont, an antiwar cable executive from Greenwich.
''They've sucked all the oxygen out of the room,'' Mr. Malloy said of the Senate candidates. And it has not helped that neither Mr. Malloy nor Mr. DeStefano is seen at this point as having much chance in November against Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican who enjoys a voter approval rating of 75 percent.
 Yet both men have pushed on, campaigning in broiling heat, speaking at senior centers, marching in parades and visiting churches at a time when most voters are deciding how many beach towels to pack for vacation. A final television advertising blitz is expected this week. 
 Both candidates are 51, white, and politically progressive, and have presided over two of the state's biggest cities for more than a decade. Each has raised more than $3 million for the race. Both would push for universal health care and promise to create jobs, improve the lives of the elderly and upgrade the state's transportation system. And both bristle at the suggestion that there is little difference between them.
 ''We have a very different leadership style,'' said Mr. Malloy, who narrowly won the state party's endorsement. ''He's a top-down manager who wields enormous control. I manage from the bottom up.''
 For his part, Mr. DeStefano said: ''Dan is quick to point to his record and his resume. But we're from very different cities. With Stamford, Dan was born on third base, and he thinks he hit a triple.''
 Differentiating themselves has been only part of their problem. A Quinnipiac poll released on July 20 found that 51 percent of respondents did not know enough about Mr. DeStefano to form an opinion; for Mr. Malloy, the figure was 75 percent.
 Kenneth Dautrich, a professor of public policy at the University of Connecticut, said he was not surprised. ''Given the popularity of Governor Rell, voters have to ask themselves, 'Do I want to change?' If they're happy with the way things are, they're not looking elsewhere,'' he said. ''That's why name recognition of the Democratic candidates is so low.''
 If their political careers are measured by re-election, then the two have both done well. Mr. Malloy, first elected mayor in 1995, is serving his fourth term; Mr. DeStefano has been re-elected six times since winning his first two-year term in 1993. 
 ''They're the two best mayors in the state of Connecticut in the last 20 years, but they've been dealt very different circumstances,'' said Fred V. Carstensen, director of the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis at the University of Connecticut. He added that given their experiences as mayors, ''they both understand the importance of affordable housing, education, and they've both put economic development at the core of their campaigns.''
 Stamford, with about 120,000 people, is the business hub of Fairfield County, the location of one of the highest concentrations of Fortune 500 companies in the country. The city had a median household income of $60,556 in the 2000 census. New Haven, home to Yale University, has a population of about 123,500 but a median income of $29,604, according to the census. About 8 percent of Stamford's residents lived in poverty; in New Haven, nearly 25 percent did, according to census figures. 
 Mr. Malloy, educated at Boston College and its law school, is one of eight children from an Irish Catholic family in the city he now runs. His father was an insurance salesman; his mother, a school nurse.
 Whether in Bermuda shorts and a polo shirt or a silk tie knotted just so, his manner is generally formal and intense. But he can let loose. His cellphone ringtone is ''Start Me Up'' by the Rolling Stones, his favorite band. At the party's close-fought convention, Mr. Malloy, a former prosecutor in Brooklyn, stalked the floor, collaring delegates and telling them, ''You owe me.''
 He and his wife, Cathy, the director of a rape crisis center in Stamford, have three sons.
 Mr. Malloy notes his success in obtaining federal redevelopment grants to remove blighted properties. He pushed a requirement that developers must include housing for people of low and moderate incomes in all residential projects. During his tenure, Stamford has added 4,000 housing units to its downtown, and there are plans for an additional 1,700. The city has increased spending for its public schools by nearly 80 percent during his tenure and created a prekindergarten program for all 4-year-olds. 
 He says crime has dropped 60 percent. About 9,800 new jobs have become available in the city since he became mayor, according to a recent study by Mr. Carstensen's Center for Economic Analysis. Mr. Malloy has promised to add 100,000 new jobs in the state. 
 But job growth could be more attributable to Stamford's proximity to New York and the fact that so many corporations have headquarters there, according to Antonia C. Moran, an associate professor of political science at Central Connecticut State University. ''Stamford has been the center of corporate cultural growth for decades,'' she said. ''I'm not sure any current mayor can take credit for that.'' 
 Mr. DeStefano, a graduate of the University of Connecticut with a master's degree in public policy, is a student of policy who served a term as president of the National League of Cities. He grew up in an Italian-American family in New Haven; his father was a police officer; his mother, a hairdresser.
 His theme underscores his roots: ''Working for people who work for a living.'' He can often be spotted riding his bike around New Haven. He is happy to debate the merits of the city's famed pizzerias, and he weaves his wife, Kathy, a schoolteacher, and two sons into small talk with voters.
 As mayor, Mr. DeStefano helped revitalize New Haven's downtown, increased housing for low- and moderate-income residents by 33 percent, and attracted technology and biotechnology companies to the city. He also led a $1.5 billion rebuilding of the city's schools, reduced class size and created the state's largest magnet schools program. He cites a 50 percent reduction in the high school dropout rate and a 40 percent drop in crime since he was elected in 1993. 
 He has also sought to maintain good relations with Yale University, the city's biggest taxpayer and one of its largest landlords, according to Leon Yacher, the director of urban studies and geography at Southern Connecticut State University. 
 Jobs have been lost on his watch -- about 6,700 between 1993 and the end of 2005, according to Mr. Carstensen. But Mr. Carstensen added: ''John has much less leverage in New Haven. He didn't inherit the positive trajectory that Stamford has.'' 
 New Haven has also had more problems with crime. Last year, it had 1,878 violent crimes -- defined as murder, rape, assault or robbery -- compared with 355 in Stamford, according to the police departments of both cities. Mr. DeStefano noted that New Haven has 5,400 people on parole or in early-release programs, compared with 1,400 in Stamford.
 Professor Dautrich, who directs the University of Connecticut Center for Survey Research and Analysis, said that the candidates clearly agree with each other more often than not and that neither has latched onto an issue that ''lights fire in the bellies of voters.''
 He said the outcome of the primary would hinge on voter turnout. A lower turnout, he said, would mean that mostly the rank-and-file party base, which can be counted on to vote in every primary, went to the polls, which would benefit Mr. DeStefano. If the national spotlight on the Lieberman-Lamont contest were to draw more voters, Mr. Malloy would benefit, Mr. Dautrich said.
 ''They can raise a lot of money, spend a lot of money, but the outcome of this race is largely beyond the control of either of them,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayors John DeStefano Jr. of New Haven, left, and Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford met in May in Hartford. (Photo by Bob Child/Associated Press)(pg. B1)
 John DeStefano Jr., left, and Dannel P. Malloy, opponents for governor, crossed paths July 19 in Bridgeport. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MAYORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); TERRORISM (59%); CABLE INDUSTRY (55%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); JOB CREATION (50%) Primaries; Biographical Information; Governors (US); Senate (US) ; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Election Issues; Public Opinion

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (92%); M JODI RELL (89%); JOE LIEBERMAN (77%) Stacey Stowe; Dannel P (Mayor) Malloy; John Jr (Mayor) Destefano; M Jodi (Gov) Rell; Joseph I (Sen) Lieberman; Ned Lamont

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) Connecticut; Stamford (Conn); Connecticut; New Haven (Conn); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006



17 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Anxiety Rises As Paychecks Trail Inflation 

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
LAST week, as the Chicago City Council prepared to vote on a bill that would impose a $10 minimum wage on the city's big-box retailers by 2010 and require them to pay health benefits as well, the big guns came out to defeat it.
 Mayor Richard M. Daley said the bill was tantamount to redlining, because it would keep stores and jobs out of black neighborhoods. Andrew Young, the 1960's civil rights leader, traveled to Chicago and chided black leaders who supported the bill. Around the city, Chicagoans could see a ''Don't Box Us Out!'' advertising campaign paid for by Wal-Mart, and editorials in both Chicago newspapers denounced the bill. 
 But it passed anyway: 35 votes in favor and just 14 against, meaning that even if the mayor uses a veto -- something he's never done since taking office in 1989 -- he may lose.
 Meanwhile, in Colorado on Monday, Gov. Bill Owens signed a bill requiring people to prove that they are legal residents of the United States before they can receive government benefits or a professional license. The debate over the law has dominated the news in Colorado for weeks, a good indication that immigration will be a big issue in this year's midterm elections and not just in border states. 
 The common ingredient in Chicago and Colorado isn't simply populist anger. It's a particular anxiety that people have about their paychecks. Whether the culprit seems to be Wal-Mart's drive for profits or an illegal immigrant who takes someone's else job, many families feel as if they're falling behind, and they're right. While it can be dangerous to make too much of two isolated incidents, these seem like a signal that the politics of the American economy may be coming to a turning point.
 Going back to the 1970's, the single best predictor of the nation's mood has been its collective paycheck. For all the other things that affect public opinion, like a war or a scandal, the power of wages jumps out at you when you look at broad polling data over the last 30 years. 
 When pay has been steadily increasing, as it was in the 1980's and late 90's, optimism has surged. But when pay stagnates, pessimism about the country's future inevitably takes over. As Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center, says, ''When their jobs aren't going anywhere, many people lose their optimism about the country making economic progress.''
 There have been only three periods since World War II when pay increases have fallen behind inflation. The first came in the 1970's, after decades of healthy raises. The public malaise became so severe at the time that a sitting president was moved to say, ''For the first time in the history of our country, the majority of our people believe that the next five years will be worse than the past five years.'' A year later, that president -- Jimmy Carter -- was unseated by the Reagan revolution.
 The second period started at the very end of the 1980's, and it left many Americans convinced that Europe and especially Japan had passed this country by. The worries fueled the fleeting success of presidential campaigns by H. Ross Perot, Pat Buchanan and Jerry Brown and eventually forced the early retirement of the first President Bush and the Democratic leadership in Congress.
 The third period of wage stagnation is now. Since peaking in 2003, the real hourly pay of the median worker has fallen about 2 percent. The decline has been closer to 4 percent for people in the upper-middle part of the wage distribution and for those toward the bottom, according to Labor Department data analyzed by the Economic Policy Institute. In essence, most Americans have not been receiving cost-of-living raises, and the national mood seems to be shifting as a result. 
 In the most recent New York Times/CBS News poll, conducted in late July, people were asked how their children's living standards would one day compare with their own. Only 18 percent said ''much better,'' and 30 percent said ''somewhat better.'' This is the first time in the 12 years that question has been asked that fewer than half of respondents predicted that their children's lives would be better. 
 This fear, I think, explains a good bit of the desire to legislate higher wages in Chicago and to keep out immigrant labor in Colorado. Right now, Americans' view of the economy is nowhere near as negative as it was in the early 1980's or early 90's, but there is a real anxiety about its direction. Mr. Kohut said his polls showed a big drop in the number of people reporting that they had made progress over the last five years. According to the University of Michigan's consumer poll, a stunning 57 percent of Americans say they expect the next five years to bring periods of widespread unemployment up from 38 percent two years ago.
 The obvious analysis is that this will help the Democrats, the party out of power, and to some extent it probably will. Independent voters are now nearly as pessimistic about the economy as Democrats are. But the only solid historical conclusion is that falling wages will bring some kind of political turmoil. Wage stagnation helped elect both Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton, after all.
 Moreover, the complex reality of a growing economy that isn't benefiting most workers will tempt both parties in some dangerous ways. Many Democrats have taken to exaggerating the economy's problems in recent years -- overlooking, say, the resurgence of cities, the decline in interest rates and the benefits of technology -- and have ended up out of step with the voting public. ''This idea that people are worse off than 20 or 30 years ago is so ludicrous,'' said Jason Furman, an economist who advised John Kerry's 2004 campaign. ''And I've come to appreciate how damaging it is.''
 President Bush and his advisers, meanwhile, continue to talk about the rise in average income, which is happening almost entirely because of gains at the very top. Among their many attempts to talk up the economy, my favorite was a chart released by the Treasury Department showing that median household income had fallen since 2000 -- but not by as much as it had in the early 90's. That's probably not going to make people feel a lot better. So don't be surprised if the local outbursts of anxiety in Chicago and Colorado soon go national.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Wages and Worry''In the last 12 years, wage growth has lagged behind inflation twice: in the 1990's and in the last two years. In both cases, Americans became more pessimistic about the future.POLL(Asked of parents) When your children are the age you are now, how do you think their standard of living will be?Graph tracks those that answered Much Better and Somewhat Better since 1994.WAGESChange in median hourly wagesGraph tracks Change in median hourly wages since 1994.Data from 2005 and 2006 are based on nationwide telephone surveys conducted by The Times and CBS News, the latest with 1,127 adults July 21 to 25. Previous surveys were conducted in-person by the National Opinion Research Center.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics and Economic Policy Institute)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); RACE & RACISM (76%); IMMIGRATION (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); POLITICS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CHILDREN (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); WORLD WAR II (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Public Opinion; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Children and Youth; Labor; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



18 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Rising Interest Rates and Prices Curb Americans' Spending 

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Americans spent more in June than they did in May, the government reported yesterday, but they showed some signs of holding back because of rising interest rates and higher prices for food and gasoline.
 At the same time, a closely watched yardstick of inflation climbed in June at its fastest pace in almost four years.
Together, the developments underscore the balancing act faced by Federal Reserve policy makers as they prepare to meet next week to consider whether to raise rates for the 18th consecutive time. Inflation is clearly a concern, but so is keeping a steady pace of economic growth. 
 Economists said that yesterday's Commerce Department report left policy makers with little clear direction. 
 ''On the one hand, consumer spending is grinding to a halt,'' Capital Economics, an economic research firm in London, said in a report yesterday. ''On the other hand, inflation is already higher than the Fed finds acceptable and is still rising.''
 Rob Carnell, an economist with ING, wrote: ''With the Fed likely unsure about what to do given the combination of weak activity data and rising inflation, this decision may come down to the wire.''
 Stocks fell, a sign that investors are worried the Fed will find the inflation data discouraging and raise interest rates again. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index all fell.
 The Fed's main measure of inflation was up 2.4 percent in June from the month a year earlier, the department reported, an increase not seen since September 2002. The central bank has said it would prefer a growth rate of 1 to 2 percent.
 Personal spending rose 0.4 percent in June after a 0.6 percent rise in May, the smallest increase this year.
 ''It's clear that the two sectors that have contributed the most to economic growth in the last year and a half -- housing and consumer spending -- are the two sectors that are showing the greatest weakness,'' said Bernard Baumohl, executive director of the Economic Outlook Group. 
 Mr. Baumohl noted that interest payments were taking a much bigger bite out of household income than they were two years ago, and were dragging down consumer spending.
 ''As interest rates go up, that increases the debt service burden on households,'' he said. ''And I expect we'll continue to see more of this in the second half of the year.''
 Nonmortgage interest payments now total $231.4 billion, up 25.7 percent since June 2004.
 The Commerce Department also reported that the national personal saving average remained negative in June. Saving as a percentage of disposable personal income has not been positive since March 2005.
 Some economists said the numbers did not bode well for consumer spending. ''Wage growth is struggling to keep pace with inflation, which suggests that the growth of real consumer spending will remain tame over the coming quarters,'' Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist with PNC Financial, said. 
 If consumer spending slows enough, it would lower inflation and give the Federal Reserve some breathing room. 
 ''While inflation pressures still look a bit high, what you've got to remember is that when consumer spending and the housing sector weaken, it will have a very depressing effect on inflation,'' Mr. Baumohl said. ''Prices are going to be coming down; it's just a matter of whether the Fed and the markets have the patience to see it.''
 In a separate report, the Commerce Department said yesterday that construction spending hit a record high in June, rising a stronger-than-expected 0.3 percent on increases in public and nonresidential building. Residential construction fell for a third month.
 Construction spending rose to a seasonally adjusted $1.217 trillion annual rate in June, from $1.214 trillion in May.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Personal Income''Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Graph tracks personal income since 2005.Personal Income and SpendingIncomeJune -- $10.87Change From May -- +0.6%ConsumptionJune -- 9.27Change From May -- +0.4(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); INFLATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); SAVINGS RATES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



19 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Airlines Coax Travelers to Their Own Sites

BYLINE: By Jeff Bailey

 BODY:
AS travelers grow more comfortable shopping on the Internet, the Web sites of airlines are increasingly becoming their most important marketing forums, in some cases accounting for more than half of ticket sales.
 But on many airlines' Web sites, the format can lead some consumers to feel that they are missing out on the best deal. An alternative format for displaying air fares, known as a matrix and popularized on Southwest Airlines' Web site (www.southwest.com), helps persuade consumers that their buying decision is well informed, some industry observers say.
On most airline Web sites -- including those of traditional carriers like American Airlines, United Airlines, Northwest Airlines and Delta Air Lines, the consumer plugs in dates and a destination and a long list of possible round-trip combinations appears, sorted either by preferred flight times or by price. It takes extensive scrolling to view the alternatives. And if the lowest-priced seats on a flight are already sold, it is not easy to find that out. 
 The alternative matrix display, used by Southwest and other airlines like AirTran Airways and Alaska Airlines, lends itself to the simpler fare structures of low-fare carriers.
 In the matrix format, the consumer enters dates and a destination. Then a chart appears, one for departures and one for returns, that lists flight times and as many as seven prices for seats on each flight. No scrolling is required. The matrix shows cheap fares even if they are not available on a specific day, so a consumer can look for the low fare on another day.
 For example, consumers who checked yesterday for round-trip flights from La Guardia Airport in New York to Las Vegas, departing Friday, Sept. 29, and returning Monday, Oct. 2, would see on one screen a choice of seven flights at seven prices ranging from $139 to $319. For all seven flights, the two cheapest fares were unavailable. 
 The value of information in that form is considerable. The $99 fares for all of Tuesday's flights are sold out? Why not check Monday and Wednesday? The fully refundable fare is $50 more than a restricted ticket and you're not certain of your return date? Pay a little more.
 A company that convinces customers that it is being straightforward about its prices earns good will, said Steve Morrison, professor and chairman of the economics department at Northeastern University.
 ''I would think the more transparent airlines are, the higher esteem in which they're held,'' said Mr. Morrison, who has studied airline pricing.
 Because route systems of each airline are different, the features of a Web site alone will not conquer the competition. But between airlines that fly the same routes, an easier-to-use Web site could be an important tool in taking market share.
 Mr. Morrison said traditional carriers could be forced over time into matching the features of the matrix. ''They're becoming more like low-cost carriers. These distinctions are going to, by necessity, fade away,'' he said.
 Switching to a matrix last December helped Alaska Airlines, based in Seattle, sell about 40 percent of its tickets via its Web site (www.alaskaair.com) as of April, up from about 32 percent a year earlier, said Steve Jarvis, vice president of sales and customer experience. Airlines prefer selling via their Web sites because it is inexpensive -- cheaper than paying travel agents, online bookers or the airlines' own reservation agents to do the job.
 Changing to a matrix was not very costly, Mr. Jarvis said, and Alaska Airlines did not suffer a revenue decline even though it was easier for customers to compare fares. In some cases, he said, customers now easily see that a fare with fewer restrictions is not much more costly and they opt for that. ''We didn't expect and aren't seeing a revenue-negative impact,'' he said.
 Southwest, which has used a matrix for nearly three years, sells about 70 percent of its tickets via its Web site, which it said was the highest level among major airlines. AirTran, using a matrix for one year, sells about 56 percent of tickets via its Web site. Competing against Delta in Atlanta and across the Southeast, ''we believe we have to be easy to do business with,'' said Bob Fornaro, president and chief operating officer of AirTran.
 What keeps American from displaying a matrix on its Web site? ''Ability, at the moment,'' said Billy Sanez, a spokesman, who added that the carrier's software did not currently allow it to present information in that way. 
 But there is another reason. ''I'll be honest,'' Mr. Sanez said. ''We do have a different pricing structure than Southwest. We have a lot more fares. We're a little more complicated.''
 He said American planned to upgrade its Web site, but he would not say when or how the site would change. ''We have room to improve,'' Mr. Sanez said. American would not disclose the percentage of sales via its Web site. Total direct sales -- those via www.aa.com and American's own reservation agents -- are 40 percent, Mr. Sanez said.
 The traditional carriers all have more complex fares. A spokesman for Northwest, Kurt Ebenhoch, said ''in some markets we probably have 50. Or 40. The average is probably 20.'' Northwest sells about 25 percent of its tickets via its Web site.
 Mr. Ebenhoch pointed out that Southwest fares were not available on services like Expedia and Orbitz, which are widely used for price comparison. ''There are different definitions of transparency,'' he said. Those services, along with Kayak and Sidestep, which search other Web sites for air fares, have improved comparison shopping.
 The Web has amplified the strengths and weaknesses of both traditional and low-cost carriers, said Joe Brancatelli, publisher of a Web site for business travelers, www.JoeSentMe.com. The simpler fare structure of the low cost carriers is, of course, simpler to present on the Internet. 
 ''If you're United and you've got a whole range of fares that don't make any sense, it's not going to make any sense on a chart,'' Mr. Brancatelli said. United would not comment.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Airlines like Southwest are making more use of a matrix format on the Internet to sell tickets to savvy travelers looking for the best fare.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS COS INC (91%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (56%)

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (90%); LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%)

PERSON: Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



20 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Yukos Ordered to Liquidate After Bankruptcy Decision

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
One judge slumped on her arm throughout a hearing in the multibillion-dollar business dispute, droopy eyes closing at times as lawyers spoke and an air-conditioner hummed. 
 When it was over, she and two colleagues deliberated for less than half an hour before ordering that the Yukos oil company, once Russia's largest company, be declared bankrupt and its assets liquidated.
With the swift ruling Tuesday, over the objections of Yukos lawyers who complained that the court gave their arguments inadequate consideration, Russia's most famous business dispute drew closer to a conclusion. 
 The panel of three judges assigned Yukos assets in Russia to a court-appointed manager who has a year to auction them to pay creditors including the tax ministry and Rosneft, the state oil company. The ruling ends a three-year effort to salvage Yukos, which was saddled with huge tax bills after its founder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, supported opposition political parties. 
 The remaining assets of Yukos are expected to be divided up by Gazprom and Rosneft, the Russian government's two largest energy operators. Rosneft has been hovering over Yukos for months already as the lead creditor in the bankruptcy process. 
 The judges dismissed arguments by the Yukos lawyer Drew P. Holiner that the company could recover as the value of its oil fields, refineries and filling stations rose along with high world oil prices. Mr. Holiner said he would appeal, but also called the ruling the ''death'' of Yukos.
 ''There are a number of decisions that the company feels are a violation of its right to a fair trial,'' Mr. Holiner said after the ruling. 
 The company still contends its overseas holdings -- a refinery in Lithuania, a pipeline in Slovakia and an oil services company in Switzerland -- are exempt from the ruling, based on a separate decision by a United States federal judge in New York last month. 
 As a result of the New York ruling, Yukos will operate its assets outside Russia independently of the court-appointed administrator and the Russian courts, essentially splitting the company in two -- one bankrupt, another operating from London and other European offices and controlling assets owned by a Dutch-registered subsidiary, Yukos International.
 ''You might know us as the old Yukos and new Yukos by tomorrow,'' a company spokeswoman, Claire Davidson, said in a telephone interview from London. 
 Yukos is in the process of selling the refinery and the pipeline. The overseas branch will press a legal case against the Russian government in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France, according to the former chief executive, Steven M. Theede, who made the disclosure in a letter announcing his resignation last month. 
 At the hearing yesterday, the chief judge, Pavel Markov, approved Eduard Rebgun, who had been nominated by creditors, to serve as receiver and temporary manager in Mr. Theede's place and approved a salary of about $804,000 a year. Mr. Rebgun said Yukos had assets of $17.7 billion and liabilities of $18.3 billion.
 The decision strips control from shareholders, including Mr. Khodorkovsky and foreign investors who lost millions during the crackdown on Yukos.
 The court also dismissed arguments that Yukos was unable to pay its debts because assets were frozen by court order. 
 The tax authorities seized the company's largest pumping asset, the Yugansk unit in Siberia, in 2004, alleging Yukos used transfer payments among subsidiaries to avoid taxes, a common practice in Russia at the time. The Yugansk subsidiary, comprising about two-thirds of the value of Yukos, was sold in an auction to a shell company bought a few days later by Rosneft. 
 Still, Yukos operates two large production subsidiaries, five refineries, 1,300 filling stations and other property. The company pumps about 450,000 barrels a day. 
 During the hearing, a representative of Yukos shareholders read a caustic letter accusing the judges of bias as they looked on impassively. 
 ''It is another facade intended to create the appearance of regularity,'' the shareholder, Tim Osborne, wrote about the legal process. ''Rather it is the next step in the looting of Yukos.''
 ''What in 2003 was the jewel of the Russian energy industry now is poised on the verge of extinction,'' he wrote. 
 Yukos, privatized in an auction for $300 million in 1996, has come full circle and is again state property. Energy analysts say the government's strategy is to leverage the monopoly power of oil and gas exports to reap profits for the state -- rather than for tycoons such as Mr. Khodorkovsky -- and regain power in foreign policy lost after the breakup of the Soviet Union. 
 ''This is the last act of the oligarch drama,'' Caius Rapanu, an oil and gas analyst at the brokerage firm UralSib, said of the bankruptcy hearing. ''The door has closed on the time when unelected oligarchs have so much sway over Russian economics and politics.''
 Detractors say that government insiders are skimming off the profits, and that the same will now happen with the Yukos property. 
 In the hearing, which lasted three and a half hours, Yukos lawyers unsuccessfully argued three motions, asking Judge Markov to stay the bankruptcy until other courts, including the European Court of Human Rights, have ruled on related issues.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge Pavel Markov, left, presided yesterday in Moscow over the bankruptcy hearing of the oil giant Yukos, once Russia's largest company. (Photo by Misha Japaridze/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); JUDGES (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); GAS STATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); AUCTIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); POLITICS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); RESIGNATIONS (50%) 

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (92%); OAO GAZPROM (69%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Yukos (Russian Co); Gazprom (Russian Co); Rosneft

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (69%); GAZP (RTS) (69%); ROSN (RTS) (56%); ROSN (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (69%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (69%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (69%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%)

PERSON: Mikhail B Khodorkovsky; Andrew E Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALSACE, FRANCE (66%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



21 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Jitters Depress Shares for 2nd Day

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Inflation concerns dragged down stocks for a second day after reports on consumer spending and manufacturing revived speculation that the Federal Reserve might keep raising interest rates.
 The retreat began after government data showed the Fed's preferred gauge of inflation, linked to spending, matched its biggest increase since 1995. Market losses widened after manufacturers reported that prices paid for raw materials rose the most since October.
''The market's clearly telling us that the Fed's back in the picture and there's the risk of additional rate hikes,'' said Bob Sitko, who helps manage $580 million at USAA Private Investment Management in San Antonio. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 5.74 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,270.92. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 59.95 points, or 0.5 percent, to 11,125.73. 
 The Nasdaq composite index retreated 29.48 points, or 1.4 percent, to 2,061.99, led by Whole Foods Market, which dropped 12 percent, to $50.75, after missing a sales projection. 
 Verizon shares slid 55 cents, to $33.27, after it reported that its second-quarter net income fell 24 percent, to $1.61 billion, or 55 cents a share. Profit was 64 cents a share, excluding costs to combine with MCI and build a network to carry TV services. Verizon lost 1.02 million local lines in the quarter, more than analysts had anticipated, as it battled Comcast and Time Warner, which offer phone services in package deals including television and high-speed Internet access.
 Eastman Kodak fell $3.05, or 14 percent, to $19.20, making it the worst performer in the S.& P. 500. The company said 2006 revenue might drop 3 percent rather than the 2 percent it had forecast. The company posted a loss in the second period because of costs to eliminate jobs. 
 About 13 stocks fell for every 6 that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. More than 1.65 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 3.9 percent under the three-month daily average.
 Intel and Google were part of a retreat in computer-related shares. Intel, the world's largest computer chip maker, dropped 34 cents, to $17.66. Google sank $11.09, to $375.51. An S.& P. 500 measure of technology stocks lost 1.6 percent for the steepest decline among 10 industry groups.
 R. R. Donnelley & Sons, the printing company, advanced $1.68, or 5.8 percent, to $30.87 for the biggest gain in the S.& P. 500. The company said profit, excluding some items, was 61 cents a share in the second quarter, surpassing estimates.
 American shares may fall to new lows for 2006 as a slower economy curtails profit growth, according to Byron Wien, chief investment strategist at Pequot Capital Management, which manages about $6.5 billion. ''We probably have a further correction ahead of us,'' Mr. Wien said. 
 United States Treasury prices were little changed, keeping 10-year yields at the lowest since June, after two inflation indexes rose more than economists had forecast. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 1/32, to 1014/32. The yield was at 4.98 percent, unchanged from Monday. 
 Investors were reluctant to drive yields higher until a government report Friday on employment. Futures traders are still divided on whether the Federal Reserve will lift its target interest rate next week.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price -- 99.601
High Rate -- 5.120
Coupon Yield -- 5.212
Low Rate -- 5.050
Median Rate -- 5.100
Total applied for -- $65,868,970
Accepted -- $30,955,168
Noncompetitive -- $349,536

The four-week bills mature Aug. 31, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); MICROPROCESSORS (60%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (54%) 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (69%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (55%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); GOOGLE INC (54%); INTEL CORP (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (51%); PEQUOT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (50%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (69%); VZ (NYSE) (69%); WFM (NASDAQ) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); RRD (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (51%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (51%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (51%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (51%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (50%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



22 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: To Its Investing Prowess, Goldman Sachs Seeks to Add the Cachet of a Swiss Banking Account 

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs, bank gnome? 
 Goldman, known for its prowess in trading and investment banking, has been quietly building up its international private banking business.
 The firm plans to more than double the amount of private client investment managers that it has outside the United States, said Douglas C. Grip, managing director and head of private wealth management international at Goldman Sachs.
 ''We're looking to grow dramatically over the next five years,'' he said. 
 Goldman declined to give exact numbers, but that expansion would mean several hundred managers in Europe alone when it is done. Goldman is starting with a much smaller number of private client managers in the Middle East and Asia, but also has similar growth plans there. 
 Private banking was once the preserve of the Swiss banks -- known as the gnomes of Zurich -- and about a third of all private banking assets are still held in Swiss banks. But in recent years, private banking has become a fiercely contested field of battle, as banks seek to attract a growing number of very wealthy people, particularly from quickly expanding economic areas like Asia and the Middle East. The Swiss giants UBS and Credit Suisse are the leaders in managing the money of the wealthy, along with Citigroup, HSBC, Merrill Lynch and Deutsche Bank. 
 Goldman has far to go -- it doesn't make the list of the top 10 wealth managers, according to a Scorpio Partnership study released in June. 
 Goldman wants to wrestle market share from them in the future by offering access to its line of financial products, and also to pull in some clients from its corporate banking side, where it may already be giving some of these individuals advice about their corporation's finances. 
 The bank is setting its sights high: it is focusing on investors with more than 10 million euros, or about $13 million, in assets to invest. Given that criteria, Goldman's growth plans make sense: Scorpio Partners estimates that Goldman ranks among the top five managers for individuals with $10 million or more, though the bank has been so quiet about the business that Scorpio says many of the world's wealthy do not know that Goldman wants to manage their money.
 Goldman will reach smaller pocketbooks, too, through new joint ventures with dozens of local banks and family-run investment shops that will sell Goldman Sachs investment products under their own brand names. None of these joint ventures have been announced yet, Mr. Grip said, but there are several in negotiations. 
 ''The industry is in constant change, and the best way to innovate is to combine great raw materials and superior intellect,'' he said. 
 Goldman has expanded its private wealth assets more than 30 percent over the last four years, versus an industry average of growth of about 6.5 to 8 percent in that time, he said. 
 Despite Goldman's high profile, people in the industry say the real test will be whether the bank can get its hands on new customers' assets affordably.
 ''They certainly don't have a bad brand name,'' said Ray Soudah, the chairman of Millennium Associates, a consulting firm for private banks. The question is whether Goldman can mobilize its new network of private wealth managers to bring in new customers at a ''reasonable cost,'' he said. A majority of banks that have tried to build their own private banking networks have not succeeded, he said. ''Hiring a few guys here and there will have a marginal effect,'' Mr. Soudah noted. 
 To get where it would like to be in private banking, Mr. Grip said Goldman was not ruling out buying a Swiss bank. Goldman opened a Zurich office in 1974 and formed a Swiss private bank in 1992, but has been very quiet about its operations there. Switzerland has more than 300 private banks, and the industry has long been considered ripe for consolidation, but the asking prices are steep. 
 No matter how Goldman tries to increase its private banking business, it will never be a Swiss bank. And that is important to the wealthy of the Middle East, Russian businessmen and others who are drawn to the Swiss tradition of privacy. They may be worried about United States regulatory oversight, although Goldman says its Swiss bank is regulated by banking authorities in Switzerland. 
 Still, the potential for international private banking is huge. People are growing wealthier, faster, in areas outside the United States than within it, according to a Merrill Lynch/Cap Gemini study. There are 8.7 million millionaires worldwide, and about 85,400 individuals with net financial assets worth more than $30 million, the study said. The percentage of millionaires grew by double digits in South Africa, India, South Korea and Russia in 2005, the survey said. In North America it grew by 6.9 percent.
 Goldman already has some private banking operations, though in its financial results it lumps these assets in with institutional money it manages, so getting a sense of their current size is difficult. In the United States, Goldman operates its private wealth management business through 13 regional offices, which have been undergoing some upheaval of their own, including staffing changes, as the bank revamps the business.
 To woo private banking clients, one thing Goldman may need to overcome is its own success in aggressively investing money for the firm itself. Mr. Grip acknowledged the firm's reputation, but said that Goldman was just as capable of building a portfolio for conservative investors, one that would focus on ''sleep-well money.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); PRIVATE BANKING (92%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MARKET SHARE (71%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (51%) 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs & Co

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%)

PERSON: Douglas C Grip; Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); ASIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%) Switzerland

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



23 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 646 words

PERSON: Anthony Cave Brown

HEADLINE: Anthony Cave Brown, 77, Historian of War Espionage

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Anthony Cave Brown, a British journalist who wrote books about espionage, including a study of the role of intelligence in the invasion of Europe in World War II, died on July 14 in Warrenton, Va. He was 77.
 The cause was complications of pneumonia, Edward Russell, his former brother-in-law, said.
Mr. Cave Brown's best-known book, ''Bodyguard of Lies'' (1975), told how Churchill directly ordered elaborate schemes of deception to confuse the Germans about Allied plans, in particular the D-Day landing in Normandy on June 6, 1944. Tricks included deploying agents in the north of England to compose the daily wireless traffic for a nonexistent army that was training to invade Norway. The Germans monitored the traffic, and German double agents confirmed the news. 
 The title came from a Churchill epigram: ''In war-time, truth is so precious that she should always be attended by a bodyguard of lies.''
 Another of his books, ''Treason in the Blood: H. St. John Philby, Kim Philby and the Spy Case of the Century'' (1994), provoked sharp debate by suggesting -- without presenting hard evidence -- that Kim, one of the most notorious Soviet spies, inherited his treasonous disposition from his father, H. St. John, an explorer of Saudi Arabia who was influential with that kingdom's royalty.
 Mr. Cave Brown wrote at least six books and edited three. His writings drew praise for their voluminous nature and often fascinating detail. For example, in his ''Oil, God, and Gold: The Story of Aramco and the Saudi Kings,'' (1999), he wrote that Aramco, then an American oil company operating in Saudi Arabia, cooperated with American spies to monitor the health of the king by reporting on the contents of his toilet.
 Critics also found not a few inaccuracies in his works. Peter C. Speers, writing in the journal Middle East Policy, noted Mr. Cave Brown's description of an Aramco executive's departure from the kingdom on a company private jet with his wife, his dog and his cat. Mr. Speers said the executive never owned a dog and left on a commercial flight, economy class.
 Mr. Cave Brown was born on March 21, 1929, in Bath, England. One of his book jackets said he became interested in the subject of deception through his father's wartime experiences as a creator of deceptive cartography.
 After serving in the Royal Air Force, he worked for newspapers in Luton and Bristol, both in England, before joining the staff of The Daily Mail in London. As a reporter, he covered events from the Hungarian uprising to the Algerian independence struggle to the plight of Soviet dissidents.
 In 1962, he moved to Washington to work as a freelance journalist. He had left his wife and two children behind, according to Mr. Russell. The marriage ended in divorce.
 Mr. Cave Brown is survived by a son and a daughter, a brother and two grandsons. Joan Audrey Simpson, his companion, died last March.
 As he roamed the world, Mr. Cave Brown became something of a legend among correspondents for his sometimes spectacularly profligate lifestyle. He also had a reputation for good luck.
 In the mid-1970's, he happened to be walking down the hall on the 13th floor of the military records section of the National Archives when he spotted a rickety wooden cart stacked with tattered document boxes.
 They turned out to be 80 volumes describing the development of the atomic bomb, and the material had just been declassified. Mr. Cave Brown worked with Charles B. MacDonald to condense the material into a 788-page history, ''The Secret History of the Atomic Bomb'' (1977).
 Mr. Cave Brown's biography '' 'C': The Secret Life of Sir Stewart Graham Menzies, Spymaster to Winston Churchill'' (1988), came about because ''C'' (''M'' in James Bond's world) thought Mr. Cave Brown was a member of an aristocratic family of the same name. Mr. Cave Brown did not disabuse him of that notion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (94%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HISTORY (90%); DEATHS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); ARMIES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%); GEOGRAPHY (73%); CATS (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); PNEUMONIA (57%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NORMANDY, FRANCE (55%) SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (90%); GERMANY (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORWAY (79%); HUNGARY (78%); FRANCE (55%)

CATEGORY: Books And Magazines

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



24 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Union Leaders Unexpectedly Plead Guilty In Buffalo Trial

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
For more than three decades, leaders of a powerful union used violence and intimidation against contractors, independent workers and even members of other unions to control the construction industry in the Niagara Falls area, according to federal prosecutors, strangling economic development in the process. 
 On Tuesday, prosecutors declared victory in their long-running war against the union, Local 91 of the Laborers' International Union of North America, when three of its former officials abruptly pleaded guilty to racketeering charges and a fourth to extortion. Their pleas came in the third week of a federal trial that was expected to last as long as two months and followed vivid testimony of intimidation and violence. 
 ''This has been the most significant F.B.I. criminal investigation in western New York in the past 20 years,'' said Laurie Bennett, special agent in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's office here. ''I say that because of the widespread violence and the significant and devastating economic loss to the community.''
 The local's former president, Mark Congi, along with Albert Celeste, an assistant business agent, and Paul Bellreng, a steward and picket captain, each admitted to engaging in a racketeering conspiracy. Joel Cicero, the local's former training director, pleaded guilty to using his position on the Niagara Falls Bridge Commission to extort jobs for the union local.
 Witnesses in the first days of the trial described threats against themselves and their relatives, slashed tires, vandalism at construction sites and, in one case, explosives thrown through the window of an apartment where nonunion workers from New Jersey were sleeping.
 ''It wasn't only the implied threat that you played by the rules of Local 91 or you didn't do business at all, but there have been documented cases of physical violence, damage to property and intimidation,'' Superintendent John R. Chella of the Niagara Falls Police said at a news conference on Tuesday. ''The message was clearly sent -- either play the game, or pay the price.''
 On Thursday, Goran Stevanovich, who was a nonunion worker at an asbestos-removal project in the spring of 1997, described how Local 91 pickets threw steel pipes and other objects at him and his co-workers and shouted threats. He testified that the most chilling one came from Mr. Bellreng.
 '' 'Do you ever ask yourself where are Alexander and Daniella right now?' '' Mr. Stevanovich quoted Mr. Bellreng as asking him, referring to his two young children.
 Several weeks later, Mr. Bellreng said, ''Goran, don't worry. I'm coming tonight to take your head off,'' Mr. Stevanovich testified.
 That night, two bricks with explosives taped to them crashed through windows at the apartment where Mr. Stevanovich and three others were sleeping. One landed about a foot from his head, with the explosion causing permanent hearing loss in his right ear and burning his bedding, he testified. Four union members later admitted to involvement in the attack, which they said took place on Mr. Congi's orders. Those union members had agreed to testify against the four union officials. 
 Mr. Stevanovich testified that the next day, Mr. Bellreng said, ''Goran, how was sleeping in the fire last night?''
 Shortly after Mr. Stevanovich's testimony and cross-examination, defense lawyers approached prosecutors and asked to make a plea deal, said Terrance P. Flynn, United States attorney for the Western District of New York.
 ''I believe they saw the strength of his testimony and became aware of his appeal to the jury and to the public,'' Mr. Flynn said. 
 Witnesses at the trial described a range of job-site vandalism that they ascribed to Local 91 members. A New York state trooper said 220 feet of wood fencing built by a company he ran in his off-duty hours was destroyed after he rebuffed Mr. Congi's demands to put union workers on the job.
 In all, 19 union members were indicted over the last four years. Only one was acquitted. The rest pleaded guilty or were convicted. Most had agreed to testify against the four union officials in the trial that ended on Tuesday.
 Mr. Flynn said the lineup of former defendants waiting to testify helped make the defense team's position untenable. 
 ''You can attack one, but it's difficult to attack all of them,'' he said. 
 Each of the felony counts carries a potential 20-year prison term. As part of the plea arrangement, prosecutors agreed to ask Judge Richard J. Arcara to sentence Mr. Congi to 15 years, Mr. Celeste and Mr. Bellreng to five years each, and Mr. Cicero to probation. 
 Mr. Flynn said the local's threats and reputation for violence hurt the local economy by discouraging businesses. ''They just weren't going to bother with Niagara County,'' he said. ''It just wasn't worth the violence, the intimidation and the extra costs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); GUILTY PLEAS (91%); EXTORTION (91%); VANDALISM (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); WITNESSES (78%); VERDICTS (77%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%); PROPERTY CRIMES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CHILDREN (72%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Building (Construction); Labor; Organized Labor; Racketeering and Racketeers ; Extortion and Blackmail ; Building (Construction); Sentences (Criminal); Plea Bargaining; Decisions and Verdicts

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA (83%) Laborers International Union of North America; Federal Bureau of Investigation 

PERSON: Marc Congi; Albert Celeste; Paul Bellreng; Joel Cicero

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; Niagara Falls (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



25 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Colorado Resort Operator to Invest Heavily in Wind Power

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENVER, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
Vail Resorts, the big Colorado ski and recreation company, said Tuesday that it would make a huge investment in wind power, buying enough credits to offset all the power needed for its resorts, retail stores and office buildings. 
 The announcement makes Vail the second-largest corporate buyer of wind energy in the nation, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, after Whole Foods Market Inc., the big supermarket chain that went to all wind power earlier this year.
Buying wind, though, will not mean building mountain windmills. Rather, Vail officials said they would buy the equivalent amount of their energy needs in wind power credits from a Boulder company called Renewable Choice Energy. Renewable Choice will then buy wind power from producers -- mainly in Minnesota, Kansas, North Dakota and South Dakota -- and inject the amount of power Vail uses into the national electric grid. 
 Tourism industry experts said Vail's clout -- its resorts accounted for more than 10 percent of all skier visits in the nation last year -- took alternative energy in the West's recreation economy a big step closer to the mainstream. The Aspen Skiing Company, a resort operator in Colorado, said in March that it would buy only wind power.
 Recent climate studies have suggested that winter tourism in the West could be especially hard hit in years to come by global warming, which could reduce mountain snowpack. But the chief executive officer at Vail, Robert A. Katz, said at a news conference that an equally important motive in embracing renewable energy was to establish and maintain relationships with visitors, who Mr. Katz said increasingly expected high environmental standards as they decided where to spend money.
 ''It's a way to get closer to our guests,'' he said.
 Company officials would not estimate the program's cost, but said that total energy use was about 152,000 megawatt hours a year -- about as much as is used by 14,000 average homes. The company said it would also create a promotional incentive plan to encourage employees and visitors to convert to wind power at home, with a free day ski pass to anyone who signed up.
 Vail's wind packages, for itself and its guests, also illuminate how the embrace of alternative energy these days is as much about complex financial deals as environmental concerns.
 The idea of wind power credits, said the chief executive and founder of Renewable Choice Energy, Quayle Hodek, is to displace fossil fuel generation nationally, if not quite locally. The day-to-day supply for Vail's chairlifts, lights and machinery will still be generated as it is now by local suppliers. In Colorado, that means mostly coal-fired generation.
 Similarly, visitors to a Vail resort who sign up for wind power would not change utility providers either. Rather they would pay $15 a month for a family, or $5 for an individual, to Mr. Hodek's company to buy credits for the amount of wind used by their household, which would then be fed into the national grid. The buyer would pay the same old electric bill as before, just as Vail will do here in Colorado.
 Vail's environmental image has been deeply mixed over the years. It became the target of eco-terrorist arsonists in 1998 over an expansion plan that impinged on the habitat of the lynx, a high-mountain cat in Colorado. Further expansion goals are also increasingly at odds with groups that are trying to preserve public lands.
 But Tuesday's announcement was greeted with applause by environmentalists who said that Vail's actions would go a long way toward inspiring others -- if only in competition -- and that it would give further impetus to renewable energy investment of all sorts.
 Colorado voters approved an amendment to the State Constitution in 2004 that requires big utility companies to provide 10 percent of their energy from renewable sources, especially wind, by 2015. The amendment requires much new production to be within the state's borders. 
 Jake Meffley, an energy advocate at Environment Colorado, a conservation group based in Denver, said the Vail plan ''says to the economy that people are interested in renewal.'' It did not matter, Mr. Meffley said, that the increased wind production from the deal, or the decreased burning of coal, might not occur in Colorado. 
 ''For the greater good it doesn't matter where it comes from,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vail Resorts said yesterday that it would buy credits for wind power like that generated by the turbines at the Gray County Wind Farm in Kansas. (Photo by Orlin Wagner/Associated Press)
 Skiers on Vail Mountain in the winter. Vail Resorts will offer incentives for customers who want to buy wind power credits for their homes. (Photo by Toni Axelrod for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (91%); SKIING (90%); RESORTS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); LODGING (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); RETAILERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); TOURISM (69%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VAIL RESORTS INC (85%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (72%); ASPEN SKIING CO LLC (68%)

TICKER: MTN (NYSE) (85%); WFM (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (85%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (72%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



26 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Men at Work? Not These Men 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Men Not Working, and Not Wanting Just Any Job'' (''The New Gender Divide'' series, front page, July 31) is absolutely stunning. 
 Not a morning goes by that I, a man who has recently lost his job, do not wake up and try to find another. I am willing to do pretty much any job that I am physically and mentally capable of doing.
The men in the article who are not worried about their financial futures will be a burden on all of society. They are also living in the proverbial la-la land of denial and dysfunction. 
 I, for one, do not wish to be a burden to my family or to society.
 Every job is an opportunity to better oneself on many levels. The thought of not being able to take care of oneself financially, both today and in the future, should be a terrifying thought. 
 All I can hope for is that these men continue to stay on the sidelines while I search for employment, so that I will have less competition. 

Sam Vidal
Englewood, N.J., July 31, 2006

To the Editor:
 As a child of immigrants, I was embarrassed to read about the millions of men who have decided to remain unemployed, take out loans, drain their savings and receive government assistance rather than take a job they consider beneath them.
 Each year, many immigrants to this country work long hours for little money, often in terrible conditions. Some were professionals in their own countries who traded their jobs for work as janitors or housekeepers. Their contributions to this country have been enormous. 

Patricia Y. C. E. Lin
Berkeley, Calif., July 31, 2006

To the Editor:
 You do an outstanding job of elucidating one dimension of our ''new American dilemma.'' 
 Our economy consists of more and more jobs that ''nobody wants''; of jobs that people want but that go overseas; and of jobs that people want but for which they are unqualified.
 Immigrant labor and disability insurance may mask this problem in the short run, but better public policy solutions are required.

Kathleen C. Schwartzman
Tucson, July 31, 2006

The writer is a professor of sociology at the University of Arizona.

To the Editor:
 Your article is well reported and useful. But why should we classify as ''missing'' a laid-off steelworker who writes novels and plays piano at home rather than take a low-wage job? Couldn't we also classify him as present and accounted for?
 Contemporary America still uses a neurotic measure for success: how committed a man is to serving his employer, earning the highest possible salary and exhausting himself by midlife. What about another standard, rejuvenating himself with family intimacy and exploration of his own gifts?

Terry Lee
Newport News, Va., July 31, 2006

The writer is the author of a forthcoming book about men at midlife.

To the Editor:
 The surest way to help these men (and women) is to pass anti-age job discrimination legislation. 
 There is nothing more repugnant than reading the phrase ''but the publisher did not seem to want someone my age.''
 This type of discrimination is widely accepted. 
 If a worker is capable of doing the job well, his age should not count against him. 
 If we do not address this problem soon, with increasing longevity among our citizens, we will become a nation of the underemployed, something our society can ill afford.

Bonnie Schultz
Princeton, N.J., July 31, 2006

To the Editor:
 You do Alan Beggerow, the laid-off steelworker, a disservice when you use his life to illustrate the theme of nonworking, ''idle'' men. 
 In the first sentence, you say he ''has stopped looking for work''; how can that be true if, as you say later, he recently applied for a job as an editor-writer? 
 Idle? Hardly. He reads two to three books a week, plays the piano and writes novels. 
 Mr. Beggerow's life seems unusually rich, and I wish him the best in making ends meet. 

Jean Kazez
Dallas, July 31, 2006

To the Editor:
 Are you trying to portray this as a social problem? No way. The phenomenon has been around since men have existed. 
 There is a word for it in English: loafing. 

Victor Sanchez
Battle Creek, Mich., July 31, 2006

To the Editor:
 I started reading the article about men who don't work while I was eating lunch at my desk. I didn't finish it, though, as I had to get back to work.

Kathleen Thies
Worcester, Mass., July 31, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tamara Shopsin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); MEN (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); FUTURES (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



27 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Blogger Jailed After Defying Court Orders

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
A freelance journalist and blogger was jailed on Tuesday after refusing to turn over video he took at an anticapitalist protest here last summer and after refusing to testify before a grand jury looking into accusations that crimes were committed at the protest.
 The freelancer, Josh Wolf, 24, was taken into custody just before noon after a hearing in front of Judge William Alsup of Federal District Court. Found in contempt, Mr. Wolf was later moved to a federal prison in Dublin, Calif., and could be imprisoned until next summer, when the grand jury term expires, said his lawyer, Jose Luis Fuentes. 
Earlier this year, federal prosecutors subpoenaed Mr. Wolf to testify before a grand jury and turn over video from the demonstration, held in the Mission District on July 8, 2005. The protest, tied to a Group of 8 meeting of world economic leaders in Scotland, ended in a clash between demonstrators and the San Francisco police, with one officer sustaining a fractured skull. 
 A smoke bomb or a firework was also put under a police car, and investigators are looking into whether arson was attempted on a government-financed vehicle.
 Mr. Wolf, who posted some of the edited video on his Web site, www.joshwolf.net, and sold some of it to local television stations, met with investigators, who wanted to see the raw video. But Mr. Wolf refused to hand over the tapes, arguing that he had the right as a journalist to shield his sources. 
 On Tuesday, Judge Alsup disagreed, ruling that the grand jury ''has a legitimate need'' to see what Mr. Wolf filmed.
 Mr. Wolf, a recent college graduate, is the latest journalist to face prison time for refusing to cooperate with federal investigators. Last year, the New York Times reporter Judith Miller served nearly three months in jail after refusing to divulge her sources in the investigation of the leak of a covert C.I.A. agent's name. 
 Jane Kirtley, a professor of media ethics and law at the University of Minnesota, said that although the jailing of journalists had become more common, Mr. Wolf's case was the first she had heard of in which a blogger had been pursued and eventually jailed by federal authorities. 
 ''There is a tendency on the part of the prosecutors to go aggressively after people not perceived to have a big gun behind them,'' Ms. Kirtley said. ''They are the most vulnerable links in the chain.''
 While California has a so-called shield law meant to protect journalists and their sources, no such law exists at the federal level. Even if there was such a law, Ms. Kirtley said, it is unclear whether a blogger and freelancer would fall under it. 
 According to his Web site, Mr. Wolf has been active in his defense, holding news conferences and posting interviews and newspaper articles on his site. On Tuesday, however, the site's last message read, ''This blog will be updated sometime shortly after my hearing wish me luck guys!''
 Mr. Wolf has attracted supporters, including the American Civil Liberties Union and the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, which introduced a resolution objecting to the federal government's role in the investigation. The Society of Professional Journalists contributed to Mr. Wolf's legal defense fund.
 Mr. Fuentes said he had already prepared an appeal and would file it immediately. He also planned to ask for bail, though he was not certain where the money to post it would come from. ''His mother has been trying to fund-raise,'' Mr. Fuentes said. ''But he might lose his job.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAND JURY (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); WRITERS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRISONS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); ARSON (72%); BONE FRACTURES (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); HEAD INJURIES (53%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (51%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



28 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: A New Page In the Script For Paulson

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., delivering his first public remarks since taking office last month, said yesterday that he recognized that the economy was not benefiting all Americans.
 ''Amid this country's strong economic expansion, many Americans simply aren't feeling the benefits,'' Mr. Paulson said in a speech at Columbia Business School on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. ''Many aren't seeing significant increases in their take-home pay. Their increases in wages are being eaten up by high energy prices and rising health care costs, among others.''
It was an unusual concession from a high-ranking official in an administration that has spoken only glowingly of recent economic gains and has generally joined with Republicans in Congress by dismissing Democratic concerns about growing economic inequality in the United States as ''class warfare.'' 
 On the crucial issue of currency values, however, Mr. Paulson stuck much closer to the traditional script for Treasury secretaries, promising to support a strong dollar. But he offered a hint that he might try to become even more active than his predecessor in dealing with tensions with China over its currency, which many economists say is set artificially low and is aimed at spurring exports to the United States.
 Mr. Paulson said that while ''a strong dollar is in our nation's interests,'' currency levels ''should be determined in open and competitive markets in response to underlying economic fundamentals.''
 In talking about economic inequality, Mr. Paulson made no reference to specifics, particularly the debate in Congress over tying a boost in the minimum wage, as advocated by Democrats, to sharp cuts in the federal estate tax, as pushed by Republicans. Democratic leaders in Congress accuse the Republicans of cynical politics in packaging the two proposals in a bid to get enough Democratic support to push the measure, which has already passed the House, through the Senate.
 Under John W. Snow, the former Treasury secretary, the Bush administration kept most policy matters tightly controlled from the White House and left him to serve mostly as a cheerleader for the economy. One of the few areas where Mr. Paulson's predecessor tried to make his mark was in repeatedly calling on China to move to more flexible exchange rates. By doing so, economists said, he was urging Beijing to let market forces allow the dollar to fall in relation to the Chinese yuan. 
 Aides to Mr. Paulson said he did not intend to change administration policy, but some economists, anticipating his trip to China in September, are looking for any sign that he might be more aggressive in pressing to do more. Over the last year, the yuan has risen only about 2 percent in value against the dollar. 
 Under normal circumstances, economists say, countries like China -- with large trade surpluses resulting from exports and with high-growth economies -- usually experience a rise in the value of their currencies. But that has not happened because Beijing closely manages the value of the yuan.
 Many listeners took Mr. Paulson's comments about ''underlying economic fundamentals'' to suggest that he might use his contacts with the Chinese leadership, developed after many years as chairman of the investment bank Goldman Sachs, to encourage the Beijing government to let the dollar slip in value against Chinese and other currencies in Asia.
 ''It wasn't very explicit, but I think there was a suggestion in his comments that he expects some currencies to rise against the dollar,'' said Robert D. Hormats, a Goldman Sachs vice chairman who was among many from Wall Street who traveled through sweltering heat to hear Mr. Paulson.
 Mr. Paulson is a highly respected figure among many in the financial world of New York, and many corporate leaders showed up for his talk and for a luncheon afterward. He stuck to generalities on most subjects and never deviated from firmly defending Bush administration priorities like tax cuts.
 He did note that the most recent estimate of economic growth in the second quarter of this year, at 2.5 percent, was below what most economists were expecting and suggested that the economy was ''transitioning to a more sustainable rate of growth'' than the higher rate of nearly 5 percent earlier in the year.
 And though he spoke of economic inequalities, he did not offer any hint of lack of enthusiasm for the administration's record on tax cuts. He also praised Mr. Bush for ''political courage and willingness to address entitlement reform.''
 That comment was at odds with some of the criticism Mr. Paulson got from Democrats on the Senate Finance Committee at his confirmation hearings last month. Though several supported his nomination, they warned him not to present anything resembling past administration proposals on Medicare and Social Security.
 Several Democratic senators went further, accusing the administration of bad faith in avoiding ''reform'' of these retirement systems in favor of what they said was ''privatizing'' them by proposing diverting revenues to individual retirement accounts and encouraging health savings accounts as a way of undercutting two programs that are the pillars of the New Deal and Great Society.
 Mr. Paulson said then that he would listen to the Democrats but make no specific pledges on ideas he might embrace. But aides said his commitment yesterday to a bipartisan approach was sincere and that he did not want to duplicate the administration's record of failure in an atmosphere of partisan recrimination.
 ''The president has instructed me to work with Congress on a bipartisan basis to find workable solutions,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''These solutions should be built on what we can agree on, not what divides us.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former chairman of Goldman Sachs, gave his first speech yesterday since becoming Treasury secretary last month. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); MINIMUM WAGE (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); ESTATE TAX (50%) United States Economy; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Medicine and Health ; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Currency; United States Economy; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%) Columbia University

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%) Steven R Weisman; Henry M Jr Paulson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%) China

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



29 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Development Agency Losing President to Post in Newark 

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The dismantling of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation continued yesterday as Stefan Pryor, its president, said that he would leave the agency next month.
 Mr. Pryor, 34, is to become the deputy mayor for economic development in Newark, working for Mayor Cory A. Booker, with whom he attended Yale Law School.
His impending departure is the surest sign yet that state officials are in earnest about closing down the agency within months, though it will almost surely continue to exist in some skeletal form after that. 
 Though Mr. Pryor said nine months ago that ''we look forward to working ourselves out of business,'' many seemed taken by surprise when the agency announced on July 25 that it would soon wind down.
 Left open was the question of whether the corporation -- established in November 2001 by Gov. George E. Pataki and Rudolph W. Giuliani, who was then the mayor -- had achieved its mission, or failed, or altered the definition of its mission to fit what it had accomplished.
 Under its certificate of incorporation, the agency, a subsidiary of the Empire State Development Corporation, was given the mission to foster and manage the redevelopment of the area south of Houston Street.
 ''Look up the word development,'' said Dennis McKeon, the executive director of Where to Turn, a clearinghouse of information for disaster survivors, and a critic of the planning process. ''Five years, millions spent, very little accomplished. It doesn't sound like development to me.''
 In May, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, the leading Democratic candidate for governor, said, ''The L.M.D.C. is an absolute failure.'' 
 But the man now in that job disagrees. Mr. Pataki, a Republican who will leave office at year's end, has effectively controlled the agency for its entire existence, even though it is nominally a city-state body.
 ''It was formed to instill confidence and as a vehicle for us to come together and rebuild,'' the governor said in a statement yesterday, ''and it accomplished that goal -- leading an unprecedented public process.'' 
 He continued: ''We not only have a plan for the World Trade Center site that is well into the construction phase, but we have a record high residential population, $9.9 billion of construction under way, improved accessibility in and around Lower Manhattan, created and revitalized over 140 acres of open spaces, supported cultural activities throughout Lower Manhattan and made critical investments to position downtown as a premier 24/7 mixed-use central business district.''
 The corporation would not have lasted long under a new governor. 
 Mr. Spitzer, speaking recently about his plans if elected, said: ''Whatever the merits of the L.M.D.C. in years past, it is now time to rethink the array of bureaucracies overseeing ground zero. I will work with Mayor Bloomberg to make sure we have a structure in place that provides the skills, leadership and accountability we need.''
 Responding to the same question last month before the agency announced it was effectively disbanding, John Faso, the Republican nominee and a former upstate assemblyman, also said the mayor's role needed to be strengthened.
 Mr. Spitzer's opponent for the Democratic nomination, Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, proposed a realignment of the board to increase the mayor's control and include the City Council.
 The power of the directors was called into question last year when Governor Pataki effectively barred the Drawing Center gallery and evicted the proposed International Freedom Center from the cultural building planned next to the memorial, upending what had been a deliberate 26-month selection process.
 The directors, including the chairman, John C. Whitehead, a Pataki appointee, publicly protested. Another Pataki appointee, Roland W. Betts, soon resigned from the board. It was one of the agency's darker moments.
 Highlights included the ''Listening to the City'' program in 2002, which allowed 4,000 members of the public to critique plans for the World Trade Center site; the unveiling later in 2002 of nine architectural concepts for the trade center site, some quite innovative; and a well-respected jury's selection of a memorial design from 5,201 entries in 2004.
 The process offered architects ''the sense that you could do something where design mattered,'' said Fredric M. Bell, the executive director of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects.
 With less publicity, the corporation served as a conduit for nearly $2.7 billion in federal aid, including $750 million to rebuild downtown utilities and infrastructure, $453 million in business recovery grants, $280 million in residential grants and $273.5 million for parks and open spaces.
 ''The grant program may be the single greatest legacy,'' Mr. Bell said, ''because it moved some money around that created the sense that life was coming back to normal.''
 Perhaps the corporation's most vexing issue has proved to be the demolition of the former Deutsche Bank building at 130 Liberty Street, opposite ground zero. The building is contaminated with asbestos, dioxin, lead and other hazardous materials. Hundreds of small human remains have also been found there.
 Mr. Pataki vowed in 2004 that the damaged tower ''will be gone next year.'' But it still stands, though it is being prepared for deconstruction, which will now be overseen by the Lower Manhattan Construction Command Center, which is coordinating rebuilding projects.
 ''There's been a lot of good dialogue, good planning and cautious movement,'' said Charles J. Maikish, executive director of the center. He said the removal of the uppermost 10 stories would start in a month.
 Mr. Pryor said he would stay at the development corporation until early September and then assume his new post under Mayor Booker.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stefan Pryor, right, with John C. Whitehead, then chairman of the development corporation, in November. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); CONSTRUCTION (60%) Area Planning and Renewal; World Trade Center (NYC); Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Appointments and Executive Changes

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Lower Manhattan Development Corporation (NYC)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%) Stefan Pryor; George E (Gov) Pataki; Rudolph W Giuliani; David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York State; Newark (NJ); New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



30 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Delusional Thinking in the Senate

 BODY:
Almost six months to the day after President Bush urged Congress in his State of the Union address to help break America's addiction to imported oil, the Senate approved a bill yesterday that would do nothing to cure that addiction and could actually make it worse. 
 The bill, which would open up 8.3 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico for new energy development, is bad fiscal policy, since one-third of the royalties that would normally accrue to all Americans from drilling in federal waters would flow to just four gulf states. Even as a drilling bill it makes little sense; to placate Florida's senators, it prohibits drilling in offshore areas that are richer in resources than the areas it opens up. And as energy policy it's hopelessly one-sided, encouraging production while ignoring consumption.
After Mr. Bush's address in January, the Senate legislative machinery went into overdrive and produced scores of energy-related bills, at least two of which were comprehensive, bipartisan measures aimed at reducing oil consumption by half over the next quarter-century by encouraging energy efficiency and alternative fuels. But Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader, prohibited any changes to this bill, pretty much shutting the door on any grown-up discussion of the country's energy future. 
 Mary Landrieu, a Democrat whose home state of Louisiana would benefit handsomely, conceded that by ignoring demand the bill represented only ''half the solution'' to the country's energy problems. Even that is a big exaggeration. The gulf might well yield enough natural gas to make a difference in price. But there is not enough oil there or anywhere else in the United States to make a difference in the price of a barrel of oil or a gallon of gasoline at the pump. Why the Senate persists in deluding itself on this remains one of the mysteries of the age.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); APPROVALS (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); GASOLINE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CONSUMPTION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Law and Legislation; Editorials; Offshore Exploration and Installations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); MARY LANDRIEU (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; Gulf of Mexico; Louisiana; Florida

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



31 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Foundation to Work to Reduce Greenhouse Gases

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Carolyn Marshall contributed reporting from San Francisco for this article.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
The Clinton Foundation, a nonprofit organization that has focused on combating AIDS, poverty and childhood obesity, will turn its attention to greenhouse gases, former President Bill Clinton said here Tuesday. 
 Mr. Clinton announced his new initiative at the University of California, Los Angeles, hours after the California Environmental Protection Agency released a report predicting that the state would become hotter and drier by the end of the century.
California, like the rest of the nation, has grappled for weeks with record temperatures and the ensuing power failures. More than 100 people have died in the state in recent days from heat-related illnesses, renewing debate about the role of climate change in weather patterns. 
 Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, who joined Mr. Clinton on Tuesday, met with political and business leaders in Los Angeles earlier this week to consider climate issues. And Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who announced Monday with Mr. Blair that they would work to fight global warming, has made environmental concerns a centerpiece of his re-election campaign. Other states and regions have similar initiatives.
 Mr. Clinton said in an interview on Tuesday that his interest in climate issues arose during his presidency and had grown in recent years as he followed news reports on heat-trapping gases, watched with chagrin as the United States rejected the Kyoto Protocol and observed his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, negotiate energy policy with ''Republicans who were recalcitrant on the issue.''
 He said he would focus heavily on the climate issue over the next year.
 ''It seems to me that there is now a consensus in the world that climate change is real and that we have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions,'' he said. ''What we need now is more information about how to do it quickly, economically, and organize the efforts to do it. It seemed to me that the challenge was quite a bit like the work I've done on AIDS.'' 
 For its first act, the foundation, with a $3 million grant from three donors, has formed a partnership with the Large Cities Climate Leadership Group, led by the mayor of London, to work on reducing emissions of heat-trapping gases in cities, which generate roughly 70 percent of the world's such gases.
 ''This is probably the only thing that Barbra Streisand and Rupert Murdoch agree on,'' Mr. Clinton said, referring to two of the donors. The third is Anson M. Beard Jr., a New York investor. 
 The group's purpose, Mr. Clinton said, will be to create a consortium through which cities can buy energy-saving products, similar to the way the foundation lowered the price of AIDS drugs for some nations. The group will also create common measurement tools, allowing cities to establish a base line for the gas emissions and determine the effectiveness of programs to lower them.
 Mr. Clinton said he did not believe that his program would put him at odds with the Bush administration, which has resisted some efforts to address global warming and questioned some of the science behind assertions about greenhouse gases. ''They said repeatedly that they're not against market-based solutions to these problems,'' Mr. Clinton said.
 Last year, a climate scientist at NASA said he had been threatened by White House political appointees for speaking out about the dangers of greenhouse gas emissions. Many conservative research groups and others challenge the immediate threat of global warming.
 Scientists and researchers said Tuesday that the Clinton effort was a practical one. ''This is something the scientific community welcomes because there is very, very strong consensus among all scientists that this is something that needs to be addressed, this increasing danger that may occur in the future,'' said Michael D. Mastrandrea, a climate expert at Stanford University. 
 Also Tuesday, a report on climate change, released by the California Environmental Protection Agency and compiled by the California Climate Change Center, said regional temperatures would be as much as 10 degrees higher by 2100, leading to severe air pollution, dwindling water supplies and an increase in heat-related deaths.
 The report also warned that the heat could virtually eliminate winter snowmelt, the primary source of California's drinking water. As temperatures rise, it said, residents can also expect to see increasing threats from pests and pathogens, wildfires and coastal flooding.
 The center relied on research from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, the University of California, Berkeley, and research scientists from government agencies and universities around the United States. 
 The cities partnership will begin with 22 of the world's biggest cities, including Chicago, Los Angeles and New York. ''I really think this is a race against time,'' Mr. Clinton said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); OBESITY (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (71%); POWER FAILURES (70%); WEATHER (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); CITIES (65%); PRICE CUTTING (63%); PRICE CHANGES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TONY BLAIR (68%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



32 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

A CONCESSION ON THE ECONOMY -- In his first public remarks since taking office last month, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, said yesterday that he recognized that the economy was not benefiting all Americans. [Page C1.] 


JAPANESE AUTOS MAKE GAINS -- Toyota passed Ford in July to rank behind General Motors as the No. 2 selling auto company in the United States, sales figures showed. And in another development that caused automotive eyebrows to rise, Honda outsold the Chrysler group last month for the first time. [C1.]

G.M.A.C. DEAL COULD BE DELAYED -- General Motors said that its deal to sell a controlling interest in its financing subsidiary could be delayed until next year. It also said it had increased its second-quarter loss by $200 million. [C6.]

WAL-MART STUMBLES OVERSEAS -- Wal-Mart -- the dominant retail presence in the United States -- has struggled abroad, in places like Germany, South Korea and Japan. The company has discovered that its formula for success -- low prices, zealous inventory control and a large array of merchandise -- did not translate to markets with their own discount chains and shoppers with different habits. [C1.]

EAGER TO ENTER INDIA -- Clamoring to enter India's red-hot retail sector, the world's largest chains, including Wal-Mart Stores, Carrefour and Tesco, are seeking the best way to enter the country, despite a government ban on direct foreign investment in the market. [C4.]

LOSS AT ELECTRONIC ARTS -- The video game publisher Electronic Arts reported a quarterly loss with a silver lining, suggesting in a call with investors that the industry's cyclical downturn was showing signs of reversing. [C8.]

MORE PHONE CUSTOMERS SWITCH -- Verizon and Qwest reported yesterday that the defection of their residential phone customers to cheaper Internet-based services picked up speed in the second quarter. [C3.]

KODAK REPORTS LOSS -- Eastman Kodak posted a wider second-quarter net loss and cut its full-year revenue forecast, sending its shares down about 14 percent. [C4.]

INVESTING IN WIND POWER -- Vail Resorts, the big Colorado-based recreation company, said it would make a huge investment in wind power, buying enough credits to offset all the power needed for its resorts, stores and office buildings. [A12.]

FOCUS ON GREENHOUSE GASES -- The Clinton Foundation, a nonprofit organization that has focused its efforts on combating AIDS, poverty and childhood obesity, will turn its attention to greenhouse gases, former President Clinton said. [A16.]

STOCKS DECLINE -- The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 5.74 points, to 1,270.92. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 59.95 points, to 11,125.73. The Nasdaq composite index retreated 29.48 points, to 2,061.99. [C10.]

RULING IN FORD CASE -- In a split ruling, the Michigan Supreme Court upheld a lower court decision to dismiss a sexual harassment suit against Ford Motor on the grounds that the plaintiff and her lawyers discussed with reporters evidence that the court had deemed inadmissible. [C6.]

AIR FARES ON THE WEB -- An alternative format for displaying air fares, known as a matrix and used by some low-fare carriers, eliminates scrolling and informs consumers if the cheapest fares are unavailable. [C5.]

POST OFFICE RESCUER: THE INTERNET -- The Internet is injecting new life -- and a sorely needed source of revenue -- into the Postal Service. And the transformation is happening with packages -- millions of them shipped every day, in a journey that starts with a few mouse clicks and ends a few days later at a customer's door. Postmaster General John E. Potter, above, said eBay shippers alone had accounted for more than $1 billion worth of postage since the Postal Service started working with the company in 2004. [A1.]

DONATION FOR BUSINESS SCHOOL -- Philip H. Knight, the chairman of Nike, has pledged $105 million to help build a new campus for the Stanford University Graduate School of Business. [C8.]

YUKOS ORDERED LIQUIDATED -- A panel of judges ordered that the Yukos oil company, once Russia's largest company, be declared bankrupt and its assets liquidated. [C4.]

ONLINE

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS said that its second-quarter profit rose fourfold and that contract signings, an indicator of future revenue, doubled. But it issued a third-quarter earnings forecast that was below analysts' expectations and said it would cut 3,000 to 4,000 jobs in the second half of the year while hiring more people in India and China. (AP)

THREE MEDIA ORGANIZATIONS -- the Gannett Company, the McClatchy Company and the Tribune Company -- announced an agreement related to their stakes in their classified help-wanted advertising venture CareerBuilder.com, and two other online businesses, ShopLocal.com and Topix.net. Gannett and Tribune each will increase their ownership in CareerBuilder and ShopLocal.com to 42.5 percent, and in Topix.net to 31.9 percent. (AP)

BURGER KING HOLDINGS, which went public in May, posted a fourth-quarter loss and reported sales that missed some analysts' estimates, sending its shares down 13 percent, to $13.24. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND, the agricultural processor, said its fourth-quarter profit more than doubled, spurred in part by a corn-processing profit jump on better ethanol prices. The results easily topped Wall Street's expectations. (AP)

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks Wal-Mart's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (67%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (66%); WIND ENERGY (65%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); COMPUTER GAMES (50%); OBESITY (50%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (82%); WAL-MART STORES INC (71%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (52%); VAIL RESORTS INC (52%)

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (82%); WMT (NYSE) (71%); GM (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%); MTN (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (71%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (71%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (52%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



33 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: Castro 'Stable,' But His Illness Presents Puzzle

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.; Juan Forero contributed reporting from Bogota, Colombia, for this article, Elisabeth Malkin from Mexico City, and Larry Rohter from Rio de Janeiro.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
Cuba was wrapped in uncertainty on Tuesday, as the Communist government released a statement suggesting that its longtime ruler, Fidel Castro, had survived intestinal surgery but giving few details of his condition.
 After a long day of speculation and rumor, an announcer on state-run television and radio said he had spoken to Mr. Castro and read a statement that he said had been written by the Cuban leader, who will be 80 on Aug. 13. In the statement, Mr. Castro said that his condition was stable but that the full extent of his illness would not be known for several days.
''The most I can say is that the situation will remain stable for many days before a verdict can be given,'' the statement said. ''In spirits, I find myself perfectly fine. The important thing is that the country is running perfectly well. The country is prepared for its defense by the Revolutionary Armed Forces and the people. Our compatriots will know everything at the appropriate time.''
 State-run television showed no pictures of Mr. Castro, nor did it broadcast his voice. It remained unknown where the surgery took place or where he was recuperating. 
 On Monday night, he handed power temporarily to his brother, Raul, to undergo surgery to repair intestinal bleeding, according to a statement read on Cuban television. 
 News that Mr. Castro had relinquished power for the first time in his 47-year rule prompted expressions of concern from leftist leaders in Latin America and set off immediate celebration among Cuban exiles in Miami. [Page A10.]
 The transfer also set off intense speculation about Cuba's future. Raul Castro, who has acted as defense minister for decades, made no public appearances. He is 75 years old and seems to lack the charisma, political skill and rhetorical brilliance of his brother. His detractors in the United States say he will find it hard to hold the government together if Mr. Castro were to die.
 Sean McCormack, a State Department spokesman, made it clear on Tuesday that the United States would take an active role in shaping events on the island if the Cuban leader dies. ''The United States and the American people will do everything that we can to stand by the Cuban people in their aspirations for a democracy,'' he said. 
 President Bush said Monday, before Mr. Castro's illness was announced, that the United States policy would be to undermine Raul Castro's rise to power. ''We are actively working for change in Cuba,'' he said, ''not simply waiting for change.'' 
 There were unconfirmed reports that the Cuban military had been placed on high alert on Tuesday morning, and that civil defense militias were warned to brace themselves for unrest and to keep a weather eye out for a United States invasion, residents said in telephone interviews. 
 Rumors ran through Havana. Some people pointed to the fact that Mr. Castro's message had been written on a computer as evidence that his health was much worse than the government had let on. 
 ''People are very disoriented,'' one history professor said in a telephone interview, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he feared arrest. ''Dissidents are worried and fear that at any moment there could be a wave of detentions.''
 Still, the streets of Havana were relatively quiet, as people went about their daily lives, trying to eke out a living in the island's crippled economy. ''The situation is totally tranquil, normal,'' said Armando Brinis, a government spokesman. ''Everyone is working. There are no soldiers in the street. Nothing like that.''
 Dora Fleites Gutierrez, 51, a hospital worker in the central city of Santa Clara, said a pall of sadness hung over the nation. 
 ''The people are experiencing fear and sadness at the thought of losing the commander,'' she said. ''But if the worst happens and he were to die, then his brother will remain and everything will continue to be the same. We don't fear there will be a change with Raul. He has the same ideals.''
 Mr. Castro has been a major world figure and a leftist hero since he and a band of guerrillas forced Cuba's previous dictator, Fulgencio Batista, from power in January 1959. He became an implacable enemy of the United States in the early 1960's, allying the island with the Soviet Union and bringing the world to the brink of nuclear war during the administration of President John F. Kennedy.
 As Communist rulers fell in Eastern Europe or opened up their markets in the late 1980's and early 1990's, Mr. Castro clung stubbornly to his ideology and the Cuban economy, long crippled by a United States embargo, continued a slow slide that impoverished most of its people.
 Raul Castro has been at his brother's side since the revolution. Though in his youth he was a Communist hard-liner, he has in recent years seemed to lean toward China's model of a one-party system with open markets. 
 In the early 1990's, when the collapse of the Soviet Union devastated Cuba's economy, it was Raul Castro who supported allowing more free enterprise for small-time entrepreneurs and expanding the island's tourism sector. ''Beans are more important than cannons,'' he remarked. 
 After the fall of the Soviet Union, Raul Castro changed with the times, adopting capitalist management practices to improve the efficiency of the 50,000-member Revolutionary Armed Forces. Under his leadership, the army also obtained major stakes in industry and ownership of plantations, beach resorts and an airline. 
 ''I suspect that Raul is a transitory figure given his age and lack of charisma and lack of an independent power base,'' Dario Moreno, a political science professor at Florida International University in Miami. 
 In his statement on Monday, Mr. Castro blamed the strain of recent trips to Argentina and eastern Cuba for his health, saying stress ''touched off an acute intestinal distress with sustained bleeding, which forced me to undergo delicate surgery.'' He also suggested that he would be unable to carry out his duties for several weeks. 
 His health has been a closely guarded state secret for years. The statement read on state television on Tuesday by Randy Alonso, a moderator on a daily news program, said the daylong silence about Mr. Castro's condition after surgery was necessary for national security. 
 ''In the case of Cuba, because of the plans of the empire,'' Mr. Castro said, referring to the United States, ''my state of health has become a state secret that cannot be continually divulged, and compatriots should understand this.''
 The Cuban leader has looked frail in the last two years and in October 2004, he tripped and broke his left knee and right arm after a speech. Determined to keep control of government affairs, he refused tranquilizers and general anesthesia during an operation to repair his knee.
 The news that he was suffering from intestinal bleeding, however, took the world by surprise. With fascinated curiosity, South Americans closely followed news about Mr. Castro's illness and the speculation about whether he had already died. 
 His popularity in the region has dropped in recent years, but he remains an emblematic figure even to those who have no use for his politics, and news media were abuzz with debate about his health and legacy.
 In his trademark green fatigues and graying beard, Mr. Castro created a sensation during his most recent foreign trip late last month to Argentina, for a meeting of presidents belonging to the Mercosur trade group. During the two days of the gathering, he appeared somewhat frail, but was as combative as ever. 
 When an Argentine journalist asked him about the Bush administration's plans to influence who would succeed him, Mr. Castro lashed out, yelling, ''Why don't you go ask Bush for an explanation?'' 
 The leftist president of Bolivia, Evo Morales, who has forged a tight relationship with Cuba since his election earlier his year, wished the Cuban leader ''a speedy recovery.'' The government of President Hugo Chavez in Venezuela, another close ally of Mr. Castro's, issued a statement saying Mr. Castro was ''advancing positively'' after surgery.
 President Alan Garcia's government in Peru urged the Organization of American States to begin planning to do what it can to avoid a violent transition of power after Mr. Castro's death. ''Cuba could have a civil war, as there are opposition leaders and impassioned partisans of the regime,'' Jorge del Castillo, Mr. Garcia's chief of staff, told reporters.
 Some government opponents predicted that the news of Mr. Castro's surgery would be the start of larger changes for the island nation. 
 ''It is clear that this is the start of the transition,'' Manuel Cuesta Morua, a dissident, told The Associated Press.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 4, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Wednesday about the condition of President Fidel Castro of Cuba after intestinal surgery referred incorrectly to the election date of President Evo Morales of Bolivia, who has forged a tight relationship with Cuba and wished Mr. Castro a speedy recovery. It was Dec. 18, 2005, not ''earlier this year.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Guanabacoa, Cuba, east of Havana, hundreds rallied yesterday in support of the ailing Fidel Castro and heard an army officer encourage them. (Photo by Jose Goitia for The New York Times)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (79%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%) United States International Relations; Cuban-Americans

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (93%); RAUL CASTRO (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Fidel (Pres) Castro; Raul Castro; James C Jr Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Cuba; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



34 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says It Is Prepared For Transition in Cuba

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
After waiting nearly half a century for Fidel Castro to relinquish power, Washington is warily monitoring the provisional transition in Havana, confident it has plans in place to assist pro-democracy groups in Cuba and to head off any mass exodus from the island.
 As the 10th administration to square off against Mr. Castro, the Bush administration has made no secret of its contempt for the Cuban leader, establishing the Commission for Assistance to a Free Cuba in 2003 and then ratcheting up the pressure last year by creating the Office of Cuban Transition within the State Department. 
The White House made it clear yesterday that it did not see Mr. Castro's brother Raul, 75, to whom he handed off much of his power, as very likely to improve conditions on the island or relations with the United States. There were no plans to negotiate with him. 
 ''The one thing that this president has talked about from the very beginning is his hope for the Cuban people finally to enjoy the fruits of freedom and democracy,'' the White House spokesman, Tony Snow, told reporters during a briefing. ''And for the dictator, Fidel Castro, to hand off power to his brother, who's been the prison keeper, is not a change in that status.'' 
 A plan announced by the State Department two weeks ago provides $80 million over two years to help with a post-Castro transition. The United States would also send special monitors and advisers to Cuba in the weeks after a full transition began. 
 Sean McCormack, the State Department spokesman, said no additional staff had yet been sent to Cuba. 
 Concerned about the possibility of a repeat of the Mariel boatlift in 1980, when more than 125,000 people fled the island, Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, who was born in Cuba and came to the United States after Mr. Castro seized power in 1959, told reporters in Washington that the administration was prepared to prevent ''mass migration or mass boat traffic in either direction of the Florida straits,'' after a shift in power in Cuba. 
 Mr. Martinez said he was briefed on the plans by military officials two weeks ago. He said he was confident that the Navy and the Coast Guard would be able to interdict vessels in the open waters between the countries and to prevent Cuban-Americans from entering Cuban waters while the changes were taking shape in Havana. 
 With antagonism high between the United States and Cuba for most of the last 50 years, there have been many previous reports of Mr. Castro's demise, only for him to eventually recover and resume his verbal bashing of the United States and the economic embargo that has been in place for 45 years. 
 Whether or not Mr. Castro is able to recuperate from this most recent surgery, there are indications that he is unlikely to ever lead Cuba with the same intense involvement as before. 
 ''At a minimum, from now forward, Raul is going to be a senior partner,'' said Brian Latell, a former Cuba analyst at the C.I.A. and the author of ''After Fidel.'' 
 ''Raul will be calling a lot of the shots,'' he said, ''but with a great deal of respect and deference for Fidel.'' 
 On Monday evening in Havana, a statement from Mr. Castro read on Cuban television said the leader, who will be 80 on Aug. 13, had undergone complicated intestinal surgery and would need several weeks to recuperate. 
 During his recovery, Mr. Castro said he would temporarily appoint Raul president, first secretary of the Cuban Communist Party and commander in chief of the armed forces. 
 Since the earliest days of the revolution, Raul Castro has been his elder brother's closest confidant, and has long been his designated successor. But earlier this summer, Raul made clear in speeches that he would not rule in the same manner as his brother, who has been in charge of all important decisions and is known to micromanage events. 
 Rather, he said he would lead as part of a collective, which was outlined Monday. 
 Officials aligned with Raul Castro were appointed to the national programs of health and education. Carlos Lage Davila, a leading member of Fidel Castro's government, will head the national energy program, which will keep him in close contact with Venezuela, Cuba's closest ally, and its leader, Hugo Chavez. 
 It was Venezuela that issued an update yesterday afternoon on Mr. Castro's health, saying he was ''progressing positively.'' 
 The Bush administration said it viewed attempts by Venezuela or other countries to influence the transition in Cuba as unwarranted intervention. ''The president is worried about people in the neighborhood who seek to destabilize neighbors using economic or other means,'' Mr. Snow said. 
 While most administration officials refrained from speculating on the condition of Mr. Castro, Senator Martinez said he was certain the Cuban leader was already dead, although he offered no details.
 ''I frankly don't believe that he will be able to be back and govern again,'' Mr. Martinez said. ''It's beginning to be a moment of opportunity for there to be different voices and different thoughts.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); ARMED FORCES (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (90%); RAUL CASTRO (79%); MEL MARTINEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



35 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: For Cuban Exiles, a Day Filled With Celebrations, Rumors and the Wait for News

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Terry Aguayo and Andrea Zarate contributed reporting from Miami for this article, and Joe Follick from Tallahassee, Fla.

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
One exile group spent Tuesday afternoon replacing parts on aging boats its members hoped to sail soon to Cuba. Another met all night, debating how to help dissidents on the island thwart Fidel Castro's plan for his brother Raul to succeed him. And in Little Havana in 92-degree heat, one confident crowd wagered that Mr. Castro was not ailing but dead, singing, ''Na na na na, na na na na, Fidel, goodbye.''
 Though the delirious first response to the announcement of Mr. Castro temporarily ceding power dampened as myriad questions went unanswered, anticipation remained palpable here on Tuesday. Throughout the day hundreds of thousands of Cubans in South Florida awaited updates from the island they fled, mostly to escape Mr. Castro's authoritarian rule and harsh economic conditions, and officials watched for signs of unrest on land and sea. 
Mayor Carlos Alvarez of Miami-Dade County said that the county's emergency operations center had opened in case developments in Cuba stirred chaos here, and added that a rumor-control hot line, operating around the clock since Monday night, had received 500 calls.
 Mr. Alvarez, who begged people not to block traffic if they reveled outdoors, said that things had remained surprisingly orderly but that Miamians were bursting with questions about this turn of events they had dreamed of for years.
 ''Is Castro dead?'' he said, repeating the most frequent inquiry. ''Is it safe to go outside?''
 Celebrations erupted around the county after Cuban national television reported the extraordinary development -- that Mr. Castro had undergone emergency surgery for intestinal bleeding and had temporarily ceded power to his brother Raul -- around 9 p.m. Monday. Revelers of all ages honked horns incessantly, clanged pots and pans and shouted, ''Cuba libre!'' The police beefed up their presence and blocked off several streets, including part of Calle Ocho in Little Havana. 
 Information remained scant, and speculation -- a finely honed art among Miami Cubans, accustomed to having to guess about conditions on the tightly controlled island just 90 miles from Key West -- ruled the day. In that sense, it was similar to two other times when Mr. Castro's health faltered: in 2001, when he almost fainted two hours into a televised speech, and in 2004, when he stumbled on a stage, breaking an arm and fracturing a knee.
 ''Obviously something has happened,'' said Joe Garcia, a political strategist for Democrats and the former executive director of the Cuban American National Foundation, the largest exile group. ''This is a guy who, the last time he went into surgery that we know of, made a point of saying he had no general anesthesia and was on his cellphone giving orders the whole time. He was unwilling to cede the stage at all. That he did so now in such a dramatic fashion implies something big.''
 All morning, local radio stations buzzed with hopeful conjecture, and one host even phoned a funeral home in Havana to mischievously feign grief. The Coast Guard watched for boats taking to the Florida Straits, but said it had seen no unusual activity along the Florida or Cuban coasts. 
 Gov. Jeb Bush said Florida and the Coast Guard had a joint plan to minimize any influx of Cuban immigrants if Mr. Castro died or relinquished power. Many Cuban exiles have envisioned taking boats to the island to fetch relatives the moment Mr. Castro is gone.
 ''I think that you don't want to have mass migration that creates the loss of life and creates tremendous hardships for local communities and for our state,'' Mr. Bush said in Tallahassee.
 Alfredo Mesa, the current head of the Cuban American National Foundation, said his executive board had met all night and was conferring with dissidents on the island about how to keep Raul Castro from permanently taking power. Mr. Mesa was among a number of exile leaders who said that instead of rushing to Cuba, the role of Cuban-Americans should be to lend financial and political support to dissidents there from afar.
 ''We know there are people at all levels of power in the Cuban government that want to return sovereignty, basic freedom and respect for human rights to the Cuban people,'' Mr. Mesa said. ''There are people who can make that change possible if in fact they know there is support abroad for them in this very critical hour.''
 In Little Havana, Miami's largest Cuban neighborhood, people spouted theories about Mr. Castro, who will turn 80 on Aug. 13. Some said he was already dead, others that he was faking illness to gauge how the island he has ruled for 47 years would respond. 
 ''Oh my God, this is really something!'' said Felipe Mendez, 69, who left Cuba in 1980.
 Peter Bello, who sells cigars at Cuban Tobacco Trading on Calle Ocho, said the fact that Raul Castro had not appeared publicly or issued a statement made him suspicious. 
 ''We strongly believe this could be one of his tricks,'' said Mr. Bello, 49.
 Ramon Saul Sanchez, leader of the Democracy Movement, an exile organization that once ran flotillas to the waters off Cuba to protest human rights abuses, said his group was replacing parts on its few boats and fueling up to take food and other supplies to the island. But like other exile leaders, he preached caution.
 Mr. Mesa of the Cuban American National Foundation said it was crucial for the roughly 830,000 Cuban immigrants in South Florida to stay calm and not fight about what is best for Cuba after Castro. He and Mayor Manny Diaz of Miami said community groups might organize large rallies at places like the Orange Bowl to channel some of the excitement, though nothing was in the works yet.
 ''We have disagreed on the issue of Cuba, but this is a time to stand together and be in a position to support the courageous men and women who live there,'' he said. ''Demonstrate, celebrate, but do it peacefully. Do it appropriately.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of a Cuban democracy group worked yesterday on a boat that has been used for rescue missions. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); BONE FRACTURES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (91%); JOE GARCIA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



36 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Despite Action on Plan B, F.D.A. Nominee Is in Limbo

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
The Food and Drug Administration's announcement that it would move to make emergency contraception available over the counter did little to appease senators who have held up the confirmation of the agency's commissioner.
 The agency said before a hearing on Tuesday on the nomination of Dr. Andrew C. von Eschenbach, the agency's acting commissioner, that it would end a standoff over the drug. It was endorsed by an F.D.A. committee three years ago but had been denied approval by higher officials in the face of opposition from conservative and anti-abortion groups.
Senators said the previous commissioner made the same promise to approve the drug, sold under the name Plan B, at his nomination a year ago, but the deadlines he set passed without action. 
 The holdup of Plan B, they said, reflects a larger problem of politicization at the F.D.A.
 ''We all know what's going on here,'' said Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa. ''It's the disregard of science for ideological concerns.''
 Mr. Harkin listed other areas, including stem cell research, where he said the Bush administration had ignored scientific promise to satisfy political concerns. That practice, senators complained, is hurting morale among the 12,000 F.D.A. employees and weakening consumer confidence in drug safety.
 ''We're just pleading with you here: don't go along with this stuff,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut. ''We're really counting on you, if you're confirmed, to restore the confidence in this agency.''
 Senators Patty Murray of Washington and Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, both Democrats, have held up the vote on Dr. von Eschenbach's nomination until the agency issues a decision -- pro or con -- on the over-the-counter sale of Plan B. They said Tuesday that they would continue that hold; with the Senate unable to vote on the nomination, the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, which held the hearing, did not vote after the nomination hearing. 
 Mrs. Clinton said that Dr. von Eschenbach, a former director of the National Cancer Institute, was eminently qualified for the job, but that his nomination had to be stalled because of Plan B and the larger debate it had come to represent.
 ''Like so much of this government in the past five and a half years, it has been turned into a political football, and you're on the field,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''This is not just about Plan B. Once we start politicizing the F.D.A. there is no stopping. It is essential that we draw a line, and we are drawing a line right here.''
 Senators suggested that the timing of the announcement on Plan B was intended to smooth the way for Dr. von Eschenbach's nomination. ''We've been down this road before,'' Ms. Murray said.
 Dr. von Eschenbach said that the Plan B developments were ''an unfolding,'' that he could not have made an announcement before informing the company that produces the drug, Barr Pharmaceuticals, and that he had done that on Monday.
 ''No one told me what I should or could do,'' Dr. von Eschenbach said. ''No one told me what decision I must or must not make.''
 Plan B is a high dosage of the hormones used in birth control pills. Doctors have advised women for decades to take several birth control pills within 72 hours of sex to prevent conception, and Plan B, approved as a prescription in 1999, marketed that treatment as a two-pill pack. It is available by prescription for women of all ages and without a prescription but behind pharmacy counters in several states.
 Barr applied for approval to sell the drug over the counter in 2003. When that application was rejected, it modified it to seek approval to sell the drug to women older than 16. Last summer, Dr. von Eschenbach's predecessor, Dr. Lester M. Crawford, promised a decision by Sept. 1, 2005. On Monday, Dr. von Eschenbach said he would be open to allowing it for women 18 and older and that approval could happen within several weeks.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton with Dr. Andrew C. von Eschenbach, the nominee to lead the F.D.A, and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); DRUG SAFETY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (74%); CONTRACEPTION (73%); CANCER (73%); ABORTION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (53%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); ANDREW VON ESCHENBACH (89%); TOM HARKIN (78%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



37 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Call to Enrich Uranium In Australia Stirs Debate 

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Aug. 1 

 BODY:
At a time when the United States wants to reduce the amount of nuclear material washing around the world, one of Washington's major allies, Australia, is on the verge of expanding its production and export of uranium. 
 The Australian prime minister, John Howard, one of President Bush's staunchest allies, says the country should also begin enriching uranium, a move directly counter to Mr. Bush's call for the uranium enrichment club to be limited to the handful of countries that already have the capacity.
Mr. Howard, leader of the center-right Liberal Party, says he does not see his country as confronting Washington, but as pursuing its best economic interests. 
 For Australia not to reap greater income from its vast uranium deposits would be akin to Saudi Arabia not exploiting its oil, Mr. Howard said in a major speech recently on the country's energy policy.
 He said he had not informed Mr. Bush of his nuclear policies. ''I don't need to talk to the U.S. president every day about everything that pops up,'' said Mr. Howard, who has been criticized by some Australians for talking -- and listening -- to Mr. Bush too often. ''I mean, he's running his own country, and I'm prime minister of Australia.''
 The Bush administration has remained silent about Mr. Howard's proposals. ''We've made no official statement on the issue,'' a press aide at the American Embassy in Canberra said Tuesday in response to a request for a comment.
 At home, Mr. Howard's nuclear proposals have set off a spirited debate, marked by a dramatic U-turn on uranium mining by the leader of the opposition liberal Labor Party.
 For his part, Mr. Howard says Australia has the largest reserves of uranium in the world, and it does not make good economic sense not to enrich uranium. Such a policy is reminiscent of what he called ''one of the great historical anomalies of the Australian economy.''
 A few decades ago, sheep were the backbone of the Australian economy, and most of their wool was exported.
 ''We had the best wool in the world and we sent it overseas to be processed and we bought it back at a much higher price,'' Mr. Howard said. ''That always struck people as rather odd. I would be keen to avoid that again.'' 
 In the 1940's, Australia undertook serious uranium exploration at the request of the United States, which needed it for its embryonic nuclear weapons program. Later, the country became a leader in the movement to halt nuclear proliferation, and in the 1970's, antinuclear demonstrations drew tens of thousands to the streets in Sydney. 
 In 1983, the liberal-left Labor Party came to power, and it quickly adopted what became known as a ''no new mines'' policy. There were three uranium mines in the country at the time, so it also became known as the ''three mines only'' policy, and it is still in effect. 
 But perhaps not for much longer. 
 In the address, on July 17, Mr. Howard declared that Australia could become an ''energy superpower.'' It is already the world's largest exporter of coal, and within a few years is expected to become the second largest supplier of liquefied natural gas, he said.
 Then he turned to uranium. 
 ''With close to 40 percent of the world's known low-cost uranium deposits, for Australia to bury its head in the sand on nuclear energy is akin to Saudi Arabia turning her back on global oil developments,'' Mr. Howard said.
 Within the opposition Labor Party, there is fierce division over what the country's nuclear policy should be.
 A week after Mr. Howard presented his vision, the Labor Party leader, Kim Beazley, laid out his energy policy. In a speech to the Sydney Institute, a conservative research organization, Mr. Beazley said it was time for the Labor Party to drop its ''no new mines'' policy. 
 Mr. Beazley said it was in the national interest to mine more uranium, especially since China was likely to double its demand for Australian uranium in the next 15 years.
 Mr. Beazley said he knew his decision would not be popular in his own party, and he was right. 
 ''I will vigorously oppose any watering down of Labor's uranium policy,'' said the party's environment spokesman, Anthony Albanese. ''You can guarantee that uranium mining will lead to nuclear waste. You can't guarantee that uranium mining won't lead to nuclear weapons.'' 
 Mr. Beazley was adamant, however, that the Labor Party was still opposed to uranium enrichment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); URANIUM MINING (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Atomic Energy; Uranium

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN HOWARD (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Prime Min) Howard; Raymond Bonner

GEOGRAPHIC: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (73%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (59%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (58%) AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); INDONESIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Australia

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2006



38 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Strong Earnings Overcome Concerns Over Interest Rates 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Investors put their interest rate worries aside and sent stocks higher yesterday after strong earnings reports from Time Warner and Procter & Gamble restored some of the market's flagging confidence.
 Time Warner's $1 billion profit, compared with a loss a year earlier, exceeded the market's expectations and gave hope to investors disappointed with the media sector's recent performance.
A strong showing from Procter & Gamble, the consumer products company, assuaged fears of a decline in consumer spending. 
 Yet with a tropical storm threatening Florida and energy use soaring in the sweltering eastern United States, rising energy prices threatened to stall the market's momentum for the rest of the week. A barrel of light crude settled at $75.81, up 90 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange, while prices for natural gas, widely used to generate electricity, are sharply higher this week.
 Nonetheless, investors sought bargains after two days of selling, pressing ahead despite the Labor Department's jobs report coming tomorrow and the Federal Reserve's latest decision on interest rates, due next week.
 ''It's probably wrong to expect much more from the stock market than this when you still have these questions about the Fed that are unanswered,'' said Hugh Johnson, chairman and chief investment officer of Johnson Illington Advisors. ''We have the employment numbers on Friday, which will help us with some answers, but for today, this is nice, but uninspiring.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 74.20 points, or 0.67 percent, to 11,199.93.
 Broader stock indicators also moved higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 7.63 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,278.55, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 16.82 points, or 0.82 percent, to 2,078.81.
 Bonds also moved higher after holding steady for two days, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note falling to 4.96 percent from 4.98 percent late Tuesday and the price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rising 4/32, to 101 8/32.
 The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.
 Most analysts believed the day's stock rise would be short-lived, given recent difficulties in predicting the monthly jobs report and the Fed's intentions toward interest rates. Tropical Storm Chris, expected to strengthen into a hurricane as it heads for the oil-rich Gulf of Mexico, could also come into play toward the end of the week.
 ''If you see that storm head into the gulf, all bets are off,'' said Bill Groenveld, head trader for vFinance Investments. ''You're going to see oil spike higher than it is now, and that'll take things right back down.''
 For now, however, earnings news dominates Wall Street's thinking. Time Warner added 42 cents, to $16.67, after posting strong revenue gains in its telecommunications divisions, though most of its media holdings posted tepid results. The conglomerate also announced a revamp of its AOL division, in which it will provide most of its services free.
 Procter & Gamble's quarterly profit rose 36 percent on higher revenue from price increases. Procter & Gamble, which beat analysts' expectations by a penny a share, gained $2.36, or 4.2 percent, to $58.29.
 Adobe Systems helped the lagging tech sector after the software company reaffirmed its third-quarter profit forecast, prompting a number of positive analysts' comments. Adobe surged $3.94, or 14 percent, to $32.28.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BONDS (79%); HURRICANES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); TROPICAL STORMS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); WEATHER (75%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (75%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (51%) 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006



39 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: The Herd Changes Course and Runs Away From S.U.V.'s

BYLINE: By Robert H. Frank. 
Robert H. Frank, an economist at the Johnson School of Management at Cornell University, is the co-author, with Ben S. Bernanke, of ''Principles of Economics.'' E-mail: rhf3@cornell.edu

 BODY:
THE herd instinct is as powerful in humans as in other animal species. 
 Anyone who doubts it should rent ''What Do You Say to a Naked Lady?'', the 1970 film by Allen Funt, the creator of ''Candid Camera.'' The money scene portrays a man responding to a help-wanted ad. He is directed to a waiting room occupied by men who appear to be other job seekers but are actually Mr. Funt's confederates. At no apparent signal, these men stand and begin to disrobe. The hapless job seeker's dismay is evident. Yet, after a few moments, he, too, stands and disrobes. At scene's end, the men are standing naked, apparently waiting for whatever comes next.
Clearly, the herd instinct can lead us astray. For the most part, however, the impulse to emulate others serves us well. After all, without drawing on the wisdom and experience of others, it would be almost impossible to cope with the stream of complex decisions we confront. 
 Economists increasingly recognize the importance of herd behavior in explaining ordinary purchase decisions. A case in point is the sport utility vehicle. Herd behavior helps us understand not only the explosive rise of this market segment in the 1990's, but also its imminent collapse. 
 The Chevrolet Suburban (or, as Dave Barry called it, the Chevrolet Subdivision) has been produced since 1935, but it and other similar vehicles were originally used almost exclusively for commercial purposes. Before the appearance of the Jeep Wagoneer in 1963 and the Ford Bronco in 1966, the family S.U.V. segment essentially did not exist. As recently as 1975, it accounted for only 2 percent of total vehicle sales. 
 In the 1990's, however, it became perhaps the biggest success story in automotive history. From a base of only 750,000 units in 1990, annual S.U.V. sales reached almost 3 million by 2000. In 2003, 23 percent of vehicles sold in the United States were S.U.V.'s.
 The conventional determinants of consumer demand cannot explain this astonishing trajectory. Cheap fuel was a contributing factor, but clearly not an adequate explanation, because fuel had also been cheap in earlier decades. Similarly, rising average incomes cannot have been decisive, because the pre-S.U.V. decades had experienced even more rapid income growth.
 In any case, it is not obvious why wealthier people would want to switch from cars to truck-based S.U.V.'s. Many engineers who helped design these vehicles expressed wonder that they have sold in such numbers. Early ads, coupled with names like Blazer and Pathfinder, stressed the vehicles' off-road capabilities. But as one engineer quipped, the only time most S.U.V.'s actually go off the road is when inebriated owners miss their driveways. 
 Nor can safety concerns explain the success of S.U.V.'s. As Keith Bradsher, a reporter for The New York Times, explains in his 2002 book, ''High and Mighty,'' their weight confers some advantage in head-on collisions with smaller vehicles (at the expense of occupants of those vehicles), but their poor handling, high propensity to roll over and longer stopping distances make them more dangerous, on balance, than cars. 
 Nor, finally, is the greater cargo capacity of S.U.V.'s enough to explain their popularity, as minivans and station wagons offer similar capacity without the handling and mileage penalties.
 To understand the explosive growth of S.U.V. sales, we must look first to changes in demand caused by new patterns of income growth and then to how others responded to those changes in demand. Unlike the three post-World War II decades, when incomes grew at about the same rate for people at all income levels, the period since the mid-1970's has seen most income growth accrue to the wealthy. That change helped persuade Land Rover, then a British-owned company, to bring its premium Range Rover to the United States in 1987, at the then astonishingly high base price of $31,375.
 Although Range Rover initially had the luxury S.U.V. market to itself, and top earners could easily afford one, its early sales were modest. A turning point was its appearance in the 1992 Robert Altman film, ''The Player.'' The film's lead character, the studio executive Griffin Mill (played by Tim Robbins), could have bought any vehicle he pleased. His choice? A Range Rover with a fax machine in the dashboard. 
 An important feature of the herd instinct is that people are more likely to emulate others with higher incomes. Seeing a wealthy studio executive behind the wheel of a Range Rover instantly certified it as a player's ride. As more and more high-income buyers purchased these vehicles, their allure grew. And when other automakers began offering similar vehicles at lower prices, S.U.V. sales took off.
 But what the herd instinct giveth, it also taketh away. Even when gasoline was still relatively inexpensive, many urban motorists had begun to question the merits of owning poor-handling off-road vehicles that got only 10 miles a gallon. And with gas now selling for more than $3 a gallon, the cachet of S.U.V.'s has vanished completely. If driving one was once like having a T-shirt saying, ''I'm a player,'' it is now more like having one saying, ''I'm a chump.''
 And that is a perception that no product can long survive. With unsold inventory languishing on dealer lots, prices of S.U.V.'s have been plummeting. In some markets, G.M. is offering subsidized gas at $1.99 a gallon, and Ford is offering $1,000 worth of free gas, to anyone willing to buy one. 
 The last of Ford's mammoth Excursions rolled off its Louisville, Ky., assembly line last Sept. 30. And G.M.'s largest S.U.V., the Hummer H1, was discontinued in June of this year. 
 With the herd now in full stampede, the era of big, gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s may soon be history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HERD BEHAVIOR (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (87%); ANIMALS (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (71%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%) 

PERSON: Robert H Frank

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006



40 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Senate Bill Lifts Hopes Of Big Oil Offshore

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
Big oil has been pressing Congress for years to expand its rights to drill for domestic offshore oil and gas, with little to show for its efforts. But with tensions in the Middle East and gasoline prices at home rising, the industry's fortunes on Capitol Hill may be changing.
 Both houses of Congress have now passed legislation on new exploration, and though the bills differ, any final version is expected to liberalize offshore drilling for the oil companies. 
There is a sense around the industry that a break may be coming from a quarter-century of federal policy that put a higher priority on environmental concerns than on opportunities to produce energy supplies offshore.
 On Tuesday, the Senate voted to open for bidding 8.3 million acres of federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico, thought to hold 5.8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 1.3 billion barrels of crude oil. That would be enough gas to heat and cool six million homes for 15 years, and enough oil to satisfy two months' demand in the United States.
 The House passed a far more ambitious bill in June that would effectively end a federal moratorium since 1982 on offshore drilling on most of the outer continental shelf in the Atlantic and the Pacific.
 Because it has been so long since exploration has been done , industry officials say it is anyone's guess just how much oil and gas are out there, especially in deep waters 50 miles or more from the coast. But industry officials say the potential could be enormous.
 As the energy companies see it, either version of the legislation would be a step in the right direction, although they prefer the broader House bill. 
 But with drilling still in disrepute among some senators, the companies say they will be delighted to see virtually any compromise worked out in conference and enacted after the summer recess.
 ''We're making real headway, there is no question about that,'' Shell's vice president for exploration in the Americas, Annell R. Bay, said, attributing the advances in the House and the Senate in large part to a shift in popular opinion in favor of exploiting more domestic oil and gas resources.
 She said that Shell would still concentrate its efforts in the gulf and the Alaska coast, but that ''future opportunities off the eastern and western coasts are going to be worthwhile to look at as well.''
 A spokesman for Exxon Mobil, Russ Roberts, said, ''We very much appreciate that both of the houses are now taking steps, legitimate steps, to expand our nation's access to the oil and gas resources that we have offshore of the U.S.A.''
 The most important part of the Senate bill would require the Interior Department within a year to open bidding on leases in and around an area known as Lease Area 181, a section about the size of Vermont situated 125 miles south of the Florida Panhandle and 235 miles west of Tampa.
 The water there is relatively shallow and close to pipelines and other infrastructure built for previous development, so it would be economically attractive to explore at a time of mounting project costs. Industry lobbyists said they expected Exxon Mobil, Shell, BP, ConocoPhillips and less-known independents to make bids.
 ''It's an extremely promising area,'' said Bob Slaughter, president of the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association. ''I would think everybody would be taking a look at this acreage.''
 But there is much in the Senate bill the industry does not like. While the House version would prohibit drilling within 100 miles of the Florida gulf coast, the Senate version would prohibit drilling over a far greater area, to 125 miles off most of the state's west coast and farther out in some places.
 Moreover, the Senate measure extends a drilling moratorium to the year 2022, from 2012, in some areas off the Florida coast, a provision the oil companies strongly oppose.
 ''We don't think its prudent if you're truly worried about improving our energy security and increasing domestic supplies of oil and gas,'' said Robert L. Greco III, group director for upstream and industry operations at the American Petroleum Institute. ''Each bill has its strengths and weaknesses.'' 
 The House bill would give the coastal states the power to override the current federal moratorium and decide whether they wanted drilling conducted off their coasts. State legislatures would have to explicitly vote for drilling within 50 miles of the shore. Drilling would be allowed 50 to 100 miles out, unless legislatures voted to forbid it.
 Beyond 100 miles, drilling would be authorized and states would have no authority to stop it. But energy industry officials noted that they would need the cooperation of state governments for the installation of pipelines and other infrastructure.
 Some states, particularly Florida and California, have long opposed offshore drilling. But the House bill offers an inducement by allowing the states to share in the revenue from offshore leases and royalties, and energy industry officials say they hope that Virginia and the Carolinas will become interested in drilling off their coasts.
 According to government estimates, there are reserves of 21 trillion cubic feet of gas and 13 billion barrels of oil off the Pacific coast and 37 trillion cubic feet of gas and 3.8 billion barrels of oil off the Atlantic coast.
 Those figures pale in comparison with known reserves in the Gulf of Mexico and off Alaska. And industry officials say that the government estimates were obtained in an era when exploration technology was relatively primitive compared with what is available today.
 ''What has typically been the case,'' Mr. Greco of the American Petroleum Institute said, ''is the more we study an area, the more oil and gas we find. Right now, we are prohibited from even assessing those reserves.''
 Still, at the end of the legislative process, it is unlikely that the Senate will accept anything close to the House version, and the oil and gas industry will probably have to accept a partial victory.
 ''We look forward to having those differences being ironed out in conference,'' Mr. Greco said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators on Tuesday after passage of the bill on offshore drilling. From left, Wayne Allard of Colorado, George Allen of Virginia, Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana, John Cornyn of Texas, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and the Energy Committee chairman, Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski/Getty Images)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%) 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Shell Oil Co; Exxon Mobil Corp

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (56%); RDSA (LSE) (52%); RDSA (AMS) (52%); RDS.B (NYSE) (52%); RDS.A (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (52%)

PERSON: MARY LANDRIEU (58%); WAYNE ALLARD (58%); JOHN CORNYN (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%) Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%) United States; Gulf of Mexico; Atlantic Ocean; Pacific Ocean; Alaska

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006



41 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: White House Alters Plan to Make Large Cuts in Hospitals' Medicare Payments

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 2 

 BODY:
Under intense pressure from health care lobbyists and lawmakers, the Bush administration says it will scale back and delay proposed changes in Medicare payments to hospitals that would have created clear winners and losers.
 The proposals would have cut payments by 20 percent to 30 percent for many complex treatments and new technologies. Hospitals will instead see much smaller cuts or even small increases for many of those procedures. Some of the changes will be phased in over three years.
 Doctors, hospitals, consumer groups and members of Congress had said the proposed cuts would be devastating. Under the proposals, they said, patients would have had less access to some services like cardiac care. 
 On Tuesday night, the Bush administration issued a final rule that reaffirmed the overall goal of more accurate payments while backing away from many of the proposed changes, including a sweeping revision in the classification of patients intended to account for the severity of their illnesses. 
 The reaction from Wall Street analysts on Wednesday was positive.
 ''The final rule significantly moderates proposed cuts for cardiac procedures,'' Citigroup said in a note to investors. Lehman Brothers described the final rule as ''a win for cardiac and orthopedic device companies, specialty hospitals and general acute care hospitals.'' The Prudential Equity Group said the final rule, which takes effect on Oct. 1, was ''favorable for device manufacturers'' like Boston Scientific, Medtronic and St. Jude Medical.
 Stephen J. Ubl, president of the Advanced Medical Technology Association, which represents hundreds of device makers, said he was pleased that the Bush administration and Medicare officials had responded to the industry's concerns.
 The new rule removes ''a dark cloud'' that had been hovering over the industry, Mr. Ubl said, adding, ''The worst is behind us.''
 The industry's lobbying campaign offers a case study in how to influence the government on complex technical issues that have implications worth billions of dollars to a politically potent sector of the economy.
 Rather than just filing comments on the proposed rule, the health care industry mobilized a political campaign that combined advertising and lobbying to beat back the proposed cuts. Lobbyists wrote dozens of letters to the Medicare agency, stoked concern on Capitol Hill, ran advertisements and met with White House officials including Rob Portman, the new director of the Office of Management and Budget.
 Under the proposal, published in April, the basic Medicare payment for surgery to open clogged arteries, by inserting a drug-coated wire mesh stent, would have been cut by 33 percent, to $7,590. The final rule calls instead for a cut of 3 percent, so Medicare will pay about $11,000.
 The payment for implanting a defibrillator, like the one used by Vice President Dick Cheney, would have been cut 23 percent under the proposal, to $22,000. The final rule calls for a cut of 2 percent, so Medicare will pay about $27,750.
 Under the final rule, hospitals will receive much smaller increases than originally proposed for treating some conditions, like pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
 Michael O. Leavitt, the secretary of health and human services, said the current payment system was full of biases and distortions that encouraged hospitals to provide ''treatments that happen to be the most profitable.''
 Federal officials said the new payments would be more accurate because they would be based on estimated hospital costs, rather than inflated charges. In revising its proposal, the government significantly modified its method of estimating costs, to include more data from high-cost hospitals. The resulting changes will be smaller than originally proposed and will be put into effect gradually over three years, rather than all at once.
 Dr. Mark B. McClellan, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said the final rule would mean ''smaller changes in payment, up or down, than the proposed rule.''
 Medicare pays more than $125 billion a year to nearly 5,000 hospitals. Hospitals typically receive a fixed amount for each Medicare patient, regardless of how long the person stays in the hospital. Each patient is classified in one of 526 categories, known as diagnosis-related groups. 
 Federal officials had proposed sweeping changes in the classification system, to account for the severity of each patient's illness. They wanted to replace the 526 categories with 861. They settled for more modest changes in 2007, creating 20 diagnostic groups and altering 32 others.
 The severity of a patient's illness can have a significant effect on the costs of care. In trying to account for those costs, the proposed rule relied heavily on a patient-classification system devised by 3M, the technology company based in Minnesota. 
 Hospitals said Medicare should not rely on a proprietary system controlled by a single company. 
 The Bush administration agreed to consider alternatives, to ensure that no company would have a monopoly over the software needed to manage billing and payment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ORTHOPEDICS (73%); ACUTE CARE (73%); CASE STUDIES (70%); POLITICS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%) 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); MEDTRONIC INC (55%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); ST JUDE MEDICAL INC (54%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (54%)

TICKER: MDT (NYSE) (55%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); STJ (NYSE) (54%); BSX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (54%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (54%)

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (55%); DICK CHENEY (50%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006



42 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Jobs Return To Region 

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN (NYT); Compiled by Joseph P. Fried

 BODY:
The New York region is closing in on replacing all the jobs lost during the last recession, according to statistics released yesterday by the federal Department of Labor. The region added 67,500 jobs in June and is now just 5,200 jobs -- a slim 0.1 percent -- shy of the prerecession peak in employment, reached in June 2001. But those numbers mask the fact that the heart of the region, New York City, is still a long way from recouping all of the jobs it lost. Employment in the city has been rebounding in the past year after declining sharply when the Sept. 11 terrorist attack compounded the effects of the economic downturn. Since June 2005, the number of jobs in the city has risen by 1.6 percent, to 3.67 million. That was a faster rate of job growth than those for either the nation (1.4 percent) or the broader New York region (0.9 percent). Still, total employment in the city remains almost 150,000 jobs short of the level at the end of 2000, said Michael Dolfman, the regional commissioner of labor statistics. PATRICK McGEEHAN (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CITIES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%) Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006



43 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Ford Loss In Quarter Is Bigger Than Forecast

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Aug. 2 

 BODY:
The embattled Ford Motor Company said Wednesday that its second-quarter loss was $254 million -- more than twice the loss it previously announced, because of pension-related costs. It also said it expected its luxury car group to lose money for the year.
 The disclosure by Ford, in a regulatory filing, is the latest setback for the 103-year-old auto company, which is struggling to overcome a financial and sales crisis in its North American operations. 
Ford also said Wednesday that it hired Kenneth H. M. Leet, a veteran investment banker, to assess the company's operations and serve as an adviser to its chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr.
 Mr. Leet is expected to explore whether Ford should sell underperforming operations or find an alliance for Ford, like the deal being discussed among General Motors, Renault and Nissan, people with direct knowledge of Mr. Leet's responsibilities said.
 In its filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Ford said its second-quarter loss of $254 million, or 14 cents a share, was up from its originally reported loss of $123 million, or 4 cents a share.
 Ford attributed the bigger loss in part to an increase in its estimate for pension curtailments. The curtailments, in part, reflect the cost of buyout programs that Ford has offered in order to close plants or eliminate jobs. It now expects those curtailments to cost the company $1.2 billion, up from its original forecast of $1 billion. 
 Further, Ford said it expected a loss at Premier Automotive Group, a collection of European luxury brands including Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin, which it acquired in the 1980's and 1990's.
 The company had previously said it expected the division to earn a small profit, although it cautioned the division would be close to break-even. Ford blamed changing market conditions for the loss at the automotive group. It once hoped the unit could contribute hundreds of millions a year in profits.
 The bad news was the latest in a string at Ford.
 On Tuesday, Toyota passed Ford in July sales to rank as the second-biggest automobile company in the United States. Last month, Ford cut its dividend in half to 5 cents a share, then surprised Wall Street by announcing a second-quarter loss.
 Ford, which lost $1.6 billion in North America last year, introduced a plan in January called the Way Forward. Under it, Ford said it would cut 30,000 jobs and close 14 plants by 2012. 
 But last month, Mr. Ford said that the company would accelerate and expand the program, and that additional steps would be announced within 60 days.
 The company's financial situation is deteriorating quickly, primarily because of declining sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, which make up the bulk of Ford's North American revenue.
 Industry analysts have been forecasting that Ford could lose about $3 billion before taxes in North America this year, or double its 2005 loss. But one internal forecast now shows the automaker's pretax losses could be as high as $5 billion in North America, people with direct knowledge of the report said Wednesday.
 The figure is based on worst-case factors like $100-a-barrel oil prices, higher interest rates and a falloff in consumer spending. Ford does not give guidance on its financial results. A Ford spokesman, Oscar Suris, declined to comment on the $5 billion estimate.
 Overseas, Ford's most troubled operation is Jaguar, the fabled English luxury brand that has been a drain on Ford's resources since it bought Jaguar in 1989.
 Only two weeks ago, Mr. Ford said the company was determined to fix Jaguar, which is in the midst of yet another turnaround effort. ''We are staying the course with Jaguar,'' Mr. Ford told analysts and reporters in a conference call.
 That now may change with the hiring of Mr. Leet, who spent 18 years at Goldman Sachs, where he worked in its offices in New York and London. He was responsible for the company's investment banking activities with industrial companies, including Ford. Mr. Leet also led European investment banking for Bank of America.
 The hiring of Mr. Leet was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); PICKUP TRUCKS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); PLANT CLOSINGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); SPORTS CARS (64%) 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); PREMIER AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%) Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: Kenneth Leet; William Clay Jr Ford; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006



44 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Entangling the Web

BYLINE: By Timothy B. Lee. 
Timothy B. Lee is a policy analyst at the Show-Me Institute, a nonpartisan research organization.

DATELINE: St. Louis 

 BODY:
AFTER a decade of explosive growth, a revolutionary new technology transforms the American economy. It allows people to communicate and do business across great distances faster than ever before. Critics, however, contend that access is controlled by a few large corporations eager to abuse monopoly power in order to gouge consumers and crush competition. Congress responds by enacting anti-monopoly rules and authorizing regulators to enforce them.
 That might sound like a happy ending for the current debate on ''network neutrality,'' in which Congress is being encouraged to restrain the appetites of the biggest Internet service providers. But it actually describes a similar drama from 1887, when Congress created the Interstate Commerce Commission to regulate railroads, the high-tech industry of the day. 
Unfortunately, the story is a cautionary tale. After President Grover Cleveland appointed Thomas M. Cooley, a railroad ally, as its first chairman, the commission quickly fell under the control of the railroads, gradually transforming the American transportation industry into a cartel. By 1935, when it was given oversight of the trucking industry, the commission was restricting competition and enabling price increases throughout virtually the entire surface transportation industry. Decades later, in 1970, a report released by a Ralph Nader group described the commission as ''a forum at which transportation interests divide up the national transportation market.''
 It's tempting to believe that government regulation of the Internet would be more consumer-friendly; history and economics suggest otherwise. The reason is simple: a regulated industry has a far larger stake in regulatory decisions than any other group in society. As a result, regulated companies spend lavishly on lobbyists and lawyers and, over time, turn the regulatory process to their advantage.
 Economists have dubbed this process ''regulatory capture,'' and they can point to plenty of examples. The airline industry was a cozy cartel before being deregulated in the 1970's. Today, government regulation of cable television is the primary obstacle to competition. 
 Of course, incumbent broadband providers do have some limited monopoly powers, and there is cause for concern that they might abuse them. Last fall, the chief executive of AT&T, Ed Whitacre, argued that Internet giants like Google and Microsoft should begin paying for access to his ''pipes''-- never mind that consumers already pay AT&T for the bandwidth they use to gain access to these services. If broadband providers like AT&T were to begin blocking or degrading the content and services of companies that didn't pay up, both consumers and the Internet would suffer.
 But enforcing such a ''pay to play'' scheme might be more challenging than Mr. Whitacre suspects. As every music-downloading student knows, there are myriad ways to evade Internet filtering software. Moreover, an Internet service provider that denies customers access to content risks a serious consumer revolt. Unlike a one-railroad Western town, most broadband customers can choose between cable and D.S.L., and a growing number have access to wireless options as well. 
 With several promising new technologies on the drawing board, the market for broadband will grow only more competitive. Congress should let the marketplace develop rather than constrain it with regulation. Lawmakers should certainly be mindful of unintended consequences. The Interstate Commerce Commission's regulations on transportation lingered for decades after their usefulness expired. Any neutrality regulations passed by Congress this year are likely to have a similarly dismal future. Choice and competition will do a better job of protecting Internet consumers than government bureaucrats ever have.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Harry Campbell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (90%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CARTELS (89%); MONOPOLIZATION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); BROADBAND (85%); INTERNET FILTERS (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); LOBBYING (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (76%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (76%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); STUDENT ACTIVITY FEES (74%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TRUCKING (67%); PRICE INCREASES (52%); AIRLINES (50%) 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (86%); GOOGLE INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION (83%) interstate commerce commission

TICKER: T (NYSE) (86%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%) Timothy B Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006



45 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: Castro's Younger Brother Is Focus of Attention Now

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DEPALMA and JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
With the mysterious illness of Fidel Castro this week, attention has turned to his brother, Raul, the new provisional leader of Cuba, a man whose personality is little known to Cubans and who remained out of sight and silent on Wednesday. 
 As the police stepped up patrols in Havana's poorer neighborhoods, the state run news media released little information about Fidel Castro's medical condition after abdominal surgery Tuesday or Raul Castro's whereabouts, deepening uncertainty about the future of the government.
''That is totally consistent with the culture of this government,'' said Lisandro Perez, a Cuban-American sociologist at Florida International University. ''What is surprising is not that they're trying to keep this under wraps, but that they made it public in the first place.''
 In an interview on public radio in the United States, Ricardo Alarcon, president of the Cuban National Assembly, said that he had spoken to Fidel Castro for a half-hour on Tuesday after his surgery and found him alert and in good spirits. 
 ''He's in, I would say, a normal period of recovery after an important surgery,'' Mr. Alarcon told the host of the public radio program ''Democracy Now,'' Amy Goodman. ''But very alive and very alert, as always, very interested in what's going on around him and around the world.''
 Mr. Alarcon did not say what illness Mr. Castro, 79, was suffering from, though he acknowledged that ''it is a serious matter.'' Mr. Castro had said on Monday that he was ceding power temporarily to his brother and a collective of other high-ranking officials during his recuperation. 
 Doctors outside Cuba said that Mr. Castro could be suffering from several conditions. Possibilities include cancer, intestinal bleeding or an intestinal infection. After such surgery, patients generally have tubes inserted through their nose into the stomach to drain off stomach secretions. Such tubes make it difficult to speak and are unsightly, which would possibly make Mr. Castro, in this weakened condition, reluctant to be seen on camera. 
 But in the absence of detailed statements from the government, outside observers and Cubans were left to speculate. 
 What seemed certain, however, was that the long-awaited transition from Fidel Castro to Raul -- first laid out 47 years ago -- had begun. And so had the concerns about what that new government would bring. 
 A constant in Cuba since the earliest days of the uprising more than half a century ago that forced out Cuba's previous dictator, Fulgencio Batista, Raul Castro is alternatively described by those who know him as ruthless and compassionate, as an executioner and as an executive, as a rigid Communist and a practical manager of economic and security matters. 
 But one of the most telling aspects of his career is that in the nearly five decades that Raul Castro has lead the Cuban armed forces, there has never been a coup attempt or an uprising of rank-and-file soldiers against their officers. 
 That combination of loyalty and stability -- extraordinary for a Latin American army -- is a reflection of the largely overlooked skills of Mr. Castro, 75, and essential to understanding what is likely to happen now that he is in charge.
 The extent to which Raul Castro can maintain the loyalty of Cuba's 55,000-member army, and his ability to withstand pressure from the Cuban population for political and economic change, are expected to be the most critical factors in shaping any new government that he may head. 
 His handling of the army has impressed many experts. When civil demonstrations broke out on the streets of Havana in 1994, directly threatening the Castro regime, the Cuban Army, under Raul Castro's command, did not intervene. 
 The restraint shown then convinced many people that despite his reputation for ruthlessness, Raul Castro understood the limits of military strength. He reportedly was influential in permitting an economic opening that allowed some Cubans to open small businesses. 
 Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, a retired United States Army commander who met with both Castro brothers for extensive talks in 2002, said Raul Castro wanted to ''trade war stories'' and to hear about Operation Desert Storm. 
 ''He struck me as an 82nd Airborne sergeant major,'' Mr. McCaffrey said. Fidel Castro dominated the conversation, but Raul Castro was interested in exchanging information, he said. 
 ''Fidel was obsessive, but Raul was interactive,'' General McCaffrey said. 
 Experts on Cuba said Raul Castro's management has made the armed forces one of that country's strongest institutions. 
 ''He's the guy who on a day-to-day basis built the Cuban military,'' said Jorge I. Dominguez, a Harvard professor. 
 Professor Dominguez said Raul Castro would be considered an impressive political figure in any other country that did not include his brother. He commanded the Cuban Army through two wars in Angola and one in Ethiopia, all of which were considered victories. 
 Then, when the Soviet Union collapsed, depriving Cuba of its principal financial support, Raul Castro acted to keep the army strong and well financed. He put its recruits to work on military-run farms that became some of the most efficient in the country. He sent officers to business schools in Europe to learn capitalist management techniques. 
 And he oversaw the military's expansion into resort development through an organization known as La Gaviota. According to recent American accounts, enterprises run by La Gaviota bring in about 60 percent of tourism revenues. Retired and active officers placed in charge of these enterprises are well paid and enjoy many privileges. 
 While that largess is expected to bond some of the officers to Raul Castro, it could also create divisions within the military, said Brian Latell, a former C.I.A. analyst who has studied Raul Castro's leadership of the army. 
 A doctrinaire Communist during the earliest days of the revolution, Raul Castro is thought to have matured into a more pragmatic leader than his famous brother, which some analysts believe makes him more likely to accept a China-style adjustment to Cuban Communism.
 Jorge G. Castaneda, a former Mexican foreign minister who has written extensively about leftist politics in Latin America, said Raul Castro was much more committed to Communist ideology than his older brother.
 ''Raul today may very likely, if he consolidates power, become the reformer of Cuba,'' Mr. Castaneda said. ''I don't think he will take it to a democratic opening, but I do think he could very likely reform the economy.''
 Some analysts see a possibility that such openings, if they were to come, would pave the way for a partial restoration of relations between the United States and Cuba. But there are political and legal obstacles to any American attempts to reach out to a new government led by Raul Castro.
 In statements this week, the White House has said that it put both Castro brothers into the same autocratic bin, and did not see much chance for an opening. And a law passed a decade ago blocks any rapprochement with a Cuban government led by either Fidel or Raul Castro. 
 Raul Castro shares some characteristics with his older brother, and also has developed his own style. Both embraced Communism, derided Yanqui anti-imperialism and put great stock in loyalty. 
 But the differences between them are visually symbolized by the bushy beard that became a part of Fidel's well-known profile, but which Raul, who is clean-shaven, was never able to grow. Analysts say that while Fidel Castro is charismatic and has an outsize personality that demands to be in the spotlight, Raul Castro is introspective and willing to stand in the shadows.
 ''Raul has a reputation for being more politically repressive then Fidel, but he is also more organized, more practical and more of an executive than Fidel,'' said Samuel Farber, a political scientist at Brooklyn College who grew up in Cuba. 
 Professor Farber said that he had been monitoring Cuban radio since the first announcements Monday evening about Fidel Castro's decision to hand over power to undergo surgery, and that he had noticed what seemed to be a deliberate effort to burnish Raul Castro's image. 
 ''So far, I've heard praise of Raul as a historic icon, going back to '59,'' he said. ''I haven't heard anything along the lines of policy.'' 
 Damian J. Fernandez, director of the Cuban Research Institute at Florida International University, said Raul Castro was already very powerful before his brother handed over control of the government, controlling the military, the police and lucrative state-run businesses. 
 ''Fidel has needed Raul perhaps as much as Raul has needed Fidel,'' he said.
 His weak point, however, is that many people perceive him as cutthroat and somewhat unlikable. His political authority has always emanated from his association with his brother, not his own political skills, Professor Fernandez said.
 ''He is in a very delicate situation,'' Professor Fernandez added. ''He can't veer very far away from Fidel at this point. But at some point he will have to veer away.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Without more details, Cubans have been left to speculate about Fidel Castro's health and the whereabouts of his brother, who is in charge for now. (Photo by Jose Goitia for The New York Times)
 Raul Castro's military record impresses many scholars of Cuba. (Photo by Mariana Bazo/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); PUBLIC RADIO (68%) 

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (94%); RAUL CASTRO (93%) Anthony Depalma; James C Jr Mckinley; Fidel (Pres) Castro; Raul Castro; Lisandro Perez

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) Cuba; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2006



46 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: The Weather Was Infernal; The Consumer Was Shopping

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Scorching heat gave the nation's retailers an unexpected sales bounce in July, but the outlook for the back-to-school season remained muddled, with higher energy prices and interest rates expected to limit spending somewhat in the months ahead. 
 Retailers reported sales results yesterday, and chains that met or surpassed Wall Street expectations included Wal-Mart Stores, Limited Brands, Nordstrom and J. C. Penney.
Stragglers included Target, usually a top performer, and Gap, which has been struggling to find the right fashion formula. Of stores selling merchandise aimed at teenagers, the winners included Bebe Stores and the losers included Pacific Sunwear of California. 
 Over all, though, ''things look good,'' said Richard Jaffe, a retail analyst at Stifel, Nicolaus, noting that many shoppers were secure in their jobs. ''I feel like the consumer is looking backward and still seeing good times,'' he said.
 The Goldman Sachs Composite Retail Index showed that retail sales rose 3.1 percent over July 2005, surprising retailers, who have been bracing for a second-half slowdown.
 Sales at air-conditioned department and discount stores rose by 3.2 percent each, and specialty apparel retailers rose 2.1 percent. 
 But analysts warned against putting too much weight on the results for July, one of the least important months in the retail calendar and a time when stores are clearing out summer goods to make room for fall merchandise.
 July's very hot weather had both negative and positive effects on sales, according to Michael P. Niemira, chief economist at the International Council of Shopping Centers.
 Concerns increased about the resilience of the consumer, who is faced with issues including a slowing housing market and the still rising price of gasoline. While consumer confidence increased last month from June levels, other reports suggested that the economy was showing the effects of shoppers' financial juggling. Last week, the Commerce Department said growth slowed to 2.5 percent in the second quarter, reflecting a decline in consumer spending. Economists are watching the job market, which has slowed since spring but remains healthy. The Labor Department is to issue its employment report for July today.
 Retail industry earnings are expected to be solid over all. 
 Ken Perkins, president of RetailMetrics, a research firm in Swampscott, Mass., forecast earnings growth last quarter of almost 11 percent from the period a year earlier, but analysts will be studying comments from executives about expected consumer spending this half when companies report quarterly results starting next week.
 The analysts will get a better reading on consumers' financial health in August, when back-to-school shopping begins.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Retailers and analysts say the coming back-to-school season is likely to influence the industry's 2006 results. (Photo by Gerry Broome/Associated Press)Chart: ''Retail Sales in July''GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEXGraph tracks year-to-year changes based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year since 2005.SALES RESULTSData are for the four weeks ended July 29, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier.COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: Wal-Mart -- 4 weeks to July 28TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: $19.6CHANGE: +7.9%CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +2.4%COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: Costco 4 -- weeks to July 30TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 4.5CHANGE: +11.0CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +7.0COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: TargetTOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 3.9CHANGE: +9.6CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +3.1COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: GapTOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 1.1CHANGE: +1.0CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: -4.0COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: FederatedTOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 1.6CHANGE: +61.3*CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +3.3COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: J.C. PenneyTOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 1.2CHANGE: +4.6CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +4.9COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: TJX+TOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 1.2CHANGE: +9.0CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +4.0COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: Kohl'sTOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 1.0CHANGE: +15.0CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +5.9COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: Limited BrandsTOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 0.7CHANGE: +10.0CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +7.0COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: NordstromTOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 0.8CHANGE: +7.0CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +5.3COMPANIES IN ORDER OF '05 SALES: SaksTOTAL SALES, IN BILLIONS: 0.2CHANGE: -36.4CHANGE IN SAME-STORE SALES: +2.4*Figure includes May Dept. Stores+Includes MarshallsFigures exclude Galyan's and Limited Too(Source by Goldman Sachs & Company, based on company reports.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); YOUTH MARKET (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PACIFIC SUNWEAR OF CALIFORNIA INC (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: PSUN (NASDAQ) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



47 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Small Clause, Big Problem; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: A Detail in Insurance Policies Is an Issue in Hurricane Claims 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
Marilyn Haverty, whose house in Waveland, Miss., was buffeted by wind and surging water in Hurricane Katrina, thought her homeowner's insurance would cover at least the wind damage. But it never paid her a penny. 
 As it turns out, Ms. Haverty's insurance policy, like nearly every one around the country, said, essentially, that if the house was damaged by a flood or earthquake or something else not covered, it did not matter that she had coverage for wind damage. There was no coverage at all.
Since at least the mid-1980's, insurers have been putting into their home insurance policies ''anti-concurrent causation'' clauses that effectively eliminate coverage that insurers promise to provide when selling their policies. But most people skip over the legalistic language -- if they read their policies at all. And until Katrina, there had never been such an outpouring of challenges. 
 ''There's no question that the anti-concurrent clause is bad for policyholders,'' said Adam F. Scales, an associate professor who teaches insurance law at the Washington and Lee University School of Law, in Lexington, Va. ''It's not fair because it defeats policyholders' reasonable expectations.'' 
 Insurers counter that they need the clause to protect themselves from being drawn into paying for floods, earthquakes or mudslides and other widespread calamities that are beyond their scope and that they specifically refuse to cover.
 The insurance companies say they expect to pay out $17.6 billion for homes damaged in Katrina and $20.8 billion to businesses -- the most insurers have ever paid out in a catastrophe. But lawyers for homeowners say the insurers would have had to pay out perhaps billions more had it not been for the anti-concurrent clause. Industry officials said they had no comprehensive data, but acknowledged that a substantial amount of money was at stake. 
 The provision has become one of the central issues in the thousands of lawsuits that have been filed against insurance companies since Hurricane Katrina hit last August. 
 In the first trial, which began in July and is now awaiting a federal court judge's verdict, the homeowner's lawyer, Richard F. Scruggs, argued that the storm surge in Katrina was not a flood -- as defined by the insurance companies -- but an inseparable part of the hurricane. Mr. Scruggs also argued that his client, Paul Leonard, a police lieutenant, was told by his agent that he did not need to buy flood insurance. Mr. Scruggs contended that the anti-causation clause should be voided. 
 The insurance companies say they paid for damage to homes in areas where there was no flooding. Where there was flooding, they say, they paid for damage that could have come only from wind, like the loss of a roof and broken upper-story windows -- above the highest marks left by flood waters. But they have generally refused to pay for damage to houses, or parts of houses, that were hit by both wind and flood water.
 ''They are sitting on this idea that the water washed everything away and whether there was any wind damage or not, they don't feel they have to provide any coverage,'' said Zach Butterworth, a lawyer in Bay St. Louis, Miss., who, with Mr. Scruggs, is representing Ms. Haverty and dozens of other storm victims.
 Courts around the country have been divided on whether the provision may be used to deny coverage. Many have backed the insurers. But other courts have sided with policyholders, concluding that the clause was ambiguous or ran counter to reasonable expectations of what was covered. 
 ''It is not a settled issue,'' said E. Farish Percy, a law professor and insurance expert at the University of Mississippi. ''Courts that have decided in favor of plaintiffs are saying, 'It may be perfectly clear to an insurance lawyer, but it's not that clear to a policyholder.' ''
 Insurers and other insurance experts say the only way policyholders can protect themselves is to take on the additional expense of buying special government policies that cover floods and earthquakes. But that is only a partial remedy for more expensive homes that are flooded, because the federal government limits coverage for floods to $250,000. Earthquake insurance sold by California carries a high deductible. 
 Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York, said the insurers priced their policies in the expectation that they would not be paying for damage in combination with flooding. Otherwise, Mr. Hartwig said, premiums would be much higher and some insurers might decide not to offer coverage on homes at all in certain areas. 
 Without the provision, he said, ''if a home is destroyed by an excluded peril like flood, but the damage occurred in connection with another peril like wind, you'd effectively be saying that, in effect, flood coverage is provided.''
 In papers filed in the first trial in Mississippi, the Nationwide Insurance Company said the anti-causation clause ''relieves insurers of the untenable task of proving a negative,'' that is, ''eliminating wind as a potential partial cause of the loss.''
 Even homeowners who say they fully understood that flood coverage was provided only by the government and had to be bought separately say they expected to receive at least some compensation for wind damage since both wind and water harmed their homes. 
 ''I thought I would get something,'' said Ms. Haverty, who retired in January as the assistant branch manager of a bank. During the storm, Ms. Haverty said, pine trees near her house were snapped off high above the ground by strong winds.
 But, she said, State Farm told her: ''No, we're not paying you anything on the wind. It was water.'' State Farm declined to discuss the case. Ms. Haverty was one of the relative few in Mississippi who had federal flood insurance, and she received $93,900 on that policy. Like many others whose insurers did not pay, she has applied for a federal grant. Congress has committed $15 billion to help with rebuilding for people who had no flood insurance or not enough and who received partial or no payment from their insurers.
 The insurers say they spell out their terms of coverage in their policies. But even lawyers representing insurance companies say customers do not always understand the limits of their coverage. 
 ''When you look at anti-causation language, it just doesn't look that important,'' said Randy J. Maniloff, a lawyer at White & Williams in Philadelphia who represents commercial insurance companies but is following insurance developments along the Gulf Coast. ''They don't appear to be words of substance. But they're actually enormously important.'' 
 In the Nationwide Insurance Company's home insurance policy, which is being debated in the Mississippi trial, the anti-concurrent language precedes a list of things not covered. ''We do not cover loss to any property resulting directly or indirectly from any of the following,'' the passage begins. ''Such a loss is excluded even if another peril or event contributed concurrently or in any sequence to cause the loss.''
 The insurers point out that in most states, insurance regulators approve the language in their policies. 
 But insurance experts said that was not necessarily a test for fairness or consumer protection. ''The regulators look a lot more carefully at rates than they do at policy terms,'' said Gary S. Thompson, a lawyer at Reed Smith in Washington who represents commercial policyholders but also follows home insurance issues. ''It's really the courts that cause insurance companies to go back and re-examine their coverage terms.''
 In questions about the anti-concurrent clause at the Mississippi trial, John Griffin Jones, a colleague of Mr. Scruggs, raised the prospect of a tree theoretically crashing through the roof of a house and rain water pouring in. If nothing else happened, all the damage would be covered. But, Mr. Jones asked, if a storm surge came two hours later and flooded the house, would everything below the water line be excluded from coverage? 
 ''Yes, sir,'' Jeffrey Kline Gilbert, an executive in charge of Katrina claims at Nationwide, replied.
 ''Under the anti-concurrent clause provision, right?'' Mr. Jones asked.
 ''Yes, sir.''
 Then, Mr. Jones asked: ''How is a guy like Paul Leonard going to know that when he is buying one of these policies? How is he going to know it is going to get that technical that you have an anti-concurrent clause provision that if any water touches the property, he is on his own?''
 ''First,'' Mr. Gilbert said, ''by reading the policy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Marilyn Haverty standing where Hurricane Katrina destroyed her property last year in Bay St. Louis, Miss. (Photos by above, Lee Celano for The New York Times
 insets, courtesy of Amy Copolla)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE POLICIES (93%); INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); LANDSLIDES (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); JUDGES (63%); LITIGATION (63%); VERDICTS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) 

PERSON: Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



48 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

PENSION BILL AND MINIMUM WAGE Senate Democrats blocked legislation tying the first minimum wage increase in almost a decade to a decrease in the estate tax, denying Republicans a legislative victory. But the Senate did pass an overhaul of the pension bill. [Page A1.] 


PREVIEW OF GRASSO TRIAL Court filings this week provide a glimpse of what the jury will hear in the trial over the pay of Richard A. Grasso, former head of the New York Stock Exchange. The filings also indicate that information about the exchange's financial results was inflated through the use of an improper accounting technique. [C1.]

MORE STOCK OPTION QUESTIONS Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn are preparing charges over stock options grants against former executives of Comverse, a Long Island communications software company, a person close to the investigation says. [C1.]

MERCK'S RECENT WINS Merck has turned the tables in the Vioxx litigation -- at least for the moment. On Wednesday, a California jury ruled that Merck's painkiller Vioxx did not cause the heart attack suffered by Stewart Grossberg in 2001. The case was Merck's second consecutive victory, after a win for the company in New Jersey last month. Meanwhile, more than 300 federal lawsuits have been dismissed. [C1.]

ACCORD ON MILITARY INSURANCE American Amicable Life Insurance has agreed to pay up to $70 million to settle complaints that it used deceptive sales practices to sell unsuitable insurance products to thousands of military personnel across the country and on bases overseas. [C3.]

AOL TO CUT 5,000 JOBS AOL will eliminate at least 5,000 jobs -- more than a quarter of its work force -- as part of its plan to scale back its Internet access business. [C3.]

I.B.M. TO BUY SOFTWARE FIRM I.B.M. announced that it planned to buy MRO Software for $740 million, a move that underlines the increasing importance of software to the company's big services business. [C5.]

RATE INCREASE IN EUROPE The board of the European Central Bank increased interest rates a quarter-point and warned of further increases in the future. [C3.]

SL GREEN TO BUY RECKSON The SL Green Realty Corporation said that it would buy a rival, the Reckson Associates Realty Corporation, for $4 billion in cash and stock. [C3.]

FORD EXPANDS RECALL Ford significantly widened a recall that already involved millions of vehicles with cruise control systems that are prone to catching fire. Vehicles included in the expanded recall are 1994 to 2002 models of the Ford F-250, F-350, F-450 and F-550 Super Duty pickup trucks; 2000 to 2002 models of the Excursion, above; 1994 to 1996 Econoline vans; 1996 to 2002 E-450 vans; and 1998 Explorers and Mercury Mountaineers. [C4.]

GIFT AND BURDEN A $1.5 billion bequest -- the largest single gift to a charity in history -- has posed a challenge for the Salvation Army, and caused soul-searching about its core purpose. [A14.]

A WAY TO GIVE MORE Wealthy campaign donors in New York are legally using limited liability corporations as a vehicle to give money well above the maximum that is allowed. [A1.]

SPRINT STOCK FALLS ON RESULTS Sprint Nextel reported disappointing second-quarter earnings, sending its stock down almost 12 percent. [C5.]

HOT JULY HELPS RETAILERS Scorching heat gave retailers an unexpected sales bounce in July. [C4.]

STOCKS RISE Economic data led to gains in the market. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 42.66 points, to 11,242.59. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 1.72 points, to 1,280.27, and the Nasdaq gained 13.53 points, to 2,092.34. [C9.]

REVERSE FINANCIAL COMMUTERS Thousands of financial workers stream into Grand Central Terminal every weekday morning. But many are not on their way to Wall Street. Instead, they are crowded into trains for Greenwich, Conn., which has emerged as the home of the ballooning hedge fund industry. [C6.]

ONLINE

Business Briefing

Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

NORTEL NETWORKS, the telecommunications equipment company, said an accounting gain allowed it to report a second-quarter profit, but profit margins continued to be squeezed. Nortel said it earned $366 million for the quarter. That was in contrast to a loss of $33 million, or 1 cent a share, for the year-earlier quarter. The profit included a gain of $510 million related to a shareholder litigation recovery, and a loss of $10 million on the sale of assets. (REUTERS)

SHARES OF MEDTRONIC, a maker of electronic heart devices, tumbled 13 percent to their lowest level since late 2003, a day after it warned that its quarterly sales would fall short of expectations. Shares fell $6.61, to $44.32. (REUTERS)

WARNER MUSIC GROUP said its third-quarter loss narrowed in part because of higher revenue and shrinking costs. For the quarter, the loss was $14 million, compared with $179 million, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $822 million from $742 million, while costs and expenses were $794 million, in contrast to $834 million in the year-earlier period. (AP)

THE CBS CORPORATION posted higher earnings for its second-quarter on unusual items including a tax benefit and a gain on the sale of its parks division, but revenues declined on weakness in its radio operations. CBS earned $781.7 million, or $1.02 a share, in contrat to $753.8 million, or 94 cents a share, a year ago. (AP)

THE COSMETICS MAKER REVLON Inc. said that its second-quarter loss widened. The company controlled by the investor Ronald O. Perelman lost $87.1 million in contrast to a loss of $35.8 million in the period a year ago. Revenue edged up 1 percent. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Merck shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ESTATE TAX (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (86%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LITIGATION (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); STOCK OPTIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); DISMISSALS (74%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); VERDICTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MAJOR GIFTS (72%); CHARITIES (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (65%); ARMED FORCES (65%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (64%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); PRODUCT RECALLS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%); SL GREEN REALTY CORP (82%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); AMERICAN-AMICABLE LIFE INSURANCE CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); SLG (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (82%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



49 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 895 words

PERSON: Stefan Pryor

HEADLINE: Go West, Young Man, to the Other Side of the Hudson

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
HE happens to be the sort of guy who gets hopelessly revved up by start-ups, no caffeine necessary. So maybe it is not such an aberration, or an act of abandonment, that Stefan Pryor, a homegrown New Yorker and the very first employee hired five years ago by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the agency charged with reversing the devastation Sept. 11 wrought, is departing the L.M.D.C., where he is president, for Newark. Certainly Newark's reputation, and to no small degree its underachieving infrastructure, seem logical candidates for a makeover on a mass scale. 
 At 34, Mr. Pryor is ambitious, and civic-centric, beyond his years, traits that surfaced after he left New City, N.Y., to study psychology at Yale. In his 20's, he earned a law degree there and completed the university's Teacher Preparation Program; was elected to New Haven's Board of Aldermen, its version of a city council; spent three years as policy adviser to the mayor of New Haven; and was a co-founder of a highly acclaimed charter school, Amistad Academy, that has since opened branches in New Haven, East New York and Crown Heights. So he seems a logical candidate to help reinvigorate Newark; think of him as a fellow who flips cities the way other beyond-the-box urbanites flip real estate. 
''I guess in a way, I'm on my third city: first New Haven, then Lower Manhattan, and now Newark,'' he says. Fortuitous, really, that just as his job, and the development corporation, were due to be phased out, a start-up opened up in Newark with a familiar face at the helm.
 There, as deputy mayor for economic development, he will reunite with another Yale Law School classmate/dynamo, Cory A. Booker, who was sworn in as mayor on July 1 and whose agenda is, as described by Mr. Pryor: ''The revitalization of a city that has not come close to realizing its potential. Cory's is a start-up administration, he's creating a moment of opportunity there, and even though the problems are deep, the aspect of it that is comprehensible going in is the start-up part of it. In revitalizing a portion of New York City, I've become interested in economic development as a discipline and in city planning as a discipline.'' Newark, he says, needs a dose of both.
 Just how disciplined is Mr. Pryor, who next month will vacate his office at 1 Liberty Plaza, where his favorite props include a phrenology skull (he assumes he has the bumps on his own skull that signify a frenetic, obsessive, committed personality) and a child-size drum (his hobby is percussion, which explains a proclivity for accompanying talking points with syncopated wallops to his conference table), and switch his apartment in downtown Manhattan for one in downtown Newark? 
 MIGHTY disciplined. In five years with the agency, he has taken one vacation, a 10-day trip to Israel with friends that, for him, lasted four days before developments on the downtown front brought him back to the office. ''I learned my lesson: Don't leave town while you're in this job. Besides, it's not in tune with my personality to leave. Around the issue of rebuilding downtown, I am obsessive.''
 Contrary to critics like Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, who is running for governor and who disparaged his agency as ''an absolute failure,'' he insists, with a sigh, that the corporation has fulfilled its mandate. He predicts that even should Mr. Spitzer become governor, the World Trade Center as envisioned by his agency will be built and, yes, celebrated.
 ''I understand the frustration some people may feel regarding the pace of the work, but I am convinced that the redevelopment will be judged by history not as to whether it took a year longer for this component or that, but judged on the quality of the outcome,'' Mr. Pryor says, tie slightly askew but vehemently on message. ''This master plan is ingenious, and it has held through every controversy.''
 Commerce will be served, but so, he vows, will culture: ''We have invested $27 million in 63 cultural institutions downtown. When has that ever happened before? And the Performing Arts Center at the World Trade Center will be world class. We have dedicated $50 million to it, and we will take additional steps to ensure that even if we're gone, the project is real.''
 About the corporation bowing out of the process now, it was always in the cards: ''The fifth anniversary is the logical time to transition from the planning stage to implementation in earnest. Ninety-eight percent of the funding from Congress is committed. To say there has been no development downtown is to make a false observation. As for how we are doing, a very important point is, have we reversed the exodus from Lower Manhattan? I lived through it. When people said it was a ghost town, I know it was true. Not anymore. I see it on my own block: it's more vibrant now than it was before 9/11.'' 
 On Sept. 11, Mr. Pryor, then a vice president at the Partnership for New York City, fled his Maiden Lane apartment through a shower of ash and went, by reflex, to work. He helped develop ReStart Central, a program to assist businesses affected by 9/11 and, after two weeks, returned home only to see a lineup of moving vans. He stayed. ''A part of my brain was embedded with the memories of what happened on 9/11; the people who said, 'We're going to build it back up,' are the people who work here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: STEFAN PRYOR (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); TEACHER EDUCATION (53%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (52%) 

ORGANIZATION: Lower Manhattan Development Corp

Stefan Pryor; Robin Finn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) Newark (NJ); New York City

CATEGORY: Industrial and Graphic Design

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



50 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Antiques; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1048 words

BYLINE: By Wendy Moonan

 BODY:

A New Hampshire Bonanza For Folk Art Collectors
 The Americana auctions scheduled this weekend in Manchester, N.H., may serve as a barometer of the market for folk art in general, and for folk portraits in particular, as this is a small field with a limited supply of great works.
 ''The January Americana shows in New York are wonderful, but they don't draw the same diversity of collectors,'' the collector Raymond C. Egan said in a telephone interview from his home in Boothbay, Me.
Mr. Egan, chairman of MethylGene, a Montreal biopharmaceutical company, was explaining why he and his wife, Susan, have consigned nearly 400 items of folk art from their collection to Northeast Auctions, which plans to sell them tomorrow in Manchester. The single-owner sale (one of six that Northeast has scheduled this weekend) includes furniture, weather vanes, decoys and hooked rugs, but one of the strongest categories is painting. (All the lots are on view until 8 tonight at the Center of New Hampshire, 700 Elm Street, Manchester). 
 The market for folk art is slightly erratic.
 ''If you trace back the various categories over the past 10 years, some have shot up, and some have lagged,'' Mr. Egan said. ''Portraits have lagged. I don't think portraits were ever truly appreciated in comparison to other types of folk art, like weather vanes. This sale will truly test the market.''
 The Northeast auction comes only two years after the Egans sold 33 of their folk art portraits at Sotheby's for $1.2 million.
 Why switch auction houses?
 ''Sotheby's did a great job in the first sale, but this one has over 400 lots, including small things that don't have high values,'' Mr. Egan said. ''I wanted to attract people who participate in the folk art market at all levels. This week is far and away the largest gathering of Americana collectors in the country.''
 And of dealers.
 ''The Egan sale is not the sale of the century, but it will bring out some people who don't ordinarily come,'' said David Wheatcroft, a Westborough, Mass., folk art dealer who will attend the auction. 
 Many are particularly interested in the Egan portraits, most of which were painted between 1825 and 1850 by artists with no academic training (the definition of the folk artist). Most were commissioned by middle-class people who, before photography, wanted to have a visual record of a family member. 
 ''That period is my favorite,'' Mr. Egan said. ''We were on the cusp of the Industrial Revolution. We were a strong country, and a lot of wealth was being created. The pictures depict the clothing, style and accessories of the country at that time.''
 In recent years, Mr. Egan's favorite subjects have been children, often shown with fruit or flowers, a pet or a book, wearing their Sunday best. 
 ''Over time, I shifted away from adults,'' he said. ''You are looking at the result of a 25-year culling of pictures.''
 The Egan sale has portraits by some of the most sought-after folk painters, including Ammi Phillips, Ruth W. Shute and Dr. Samuel A. Shute (a married couple), Jane Davis, Joseph Davis (not related), Rufus Porter, William Matthew Prior and Sturtevant J. Hamblin. A work in fine condition by any of these artists can command tens of thousands of dollars. 
 But Mr. Egan said an artist's name is not important to him. ''Like decoys, I don't care if a work is signed,'' he said. ''If it's great, it doesn't matter who did it.''
 Mr. Wheatcroft echoed his view. ''In fine art, knowing the artist means everything,'' he said. ''In folk art, some of the best pieces are by people whom we don't know.''
 So how does one evaluate a work?
 Condition is critical, whether it's an oil or a watercolor. Restoration is ill advised, as collectors avoid pictures that have been overcleaned or repainted. Collectors look for style, especially if it is easily identifiable; spontaneity; economy of line; whimsy; depiction of character; and likability of subject matter. Mastery of anatomy and perspective are less important.
 Lot 756, for example, is a full-length profile portrait, in watercolor, of an adorable young child in a red dress with a white smock by Justus Dalee (1793-1878). ''It has precise drawing and a very sharp edge,'' Mr. Wheatcroft said. ''Dalee rarely did full-length views of children; in fact, full-length portraits of anyone are not common.'' 
 Lot 799 is a signed watercolor portrait of Electa Snow Pierce, a native of New Hampshire, done in 1832 by the Shutes. She wears a blue scarf around her neck, a fancy lace-edged dress and carries a Bible. She is young but has a somber expression.
 ''Like the other watercolor portraits in the sale, the Shute is in excellent condition, so it will be a good test of the market,'' Mr. Wheatcroft said. 
 Sometimes draftsmanship is very accomplished, even on anonymous works. Lot 709, for example, is a 3-by 2-inch miniature oil portrait on ivory depicting a child in a red dress holding a bird squeak toy. A harbor and leafy trees are in the background. The anonymous artist was a fine draftsman, equally good at landscape and portraiture. The subject is appealing, and the condition is good. 
 ''The background may seem academic for certain collectors,'' Mr. Wheatcroft noted.
 Most winning perhaps is lot 724, an anonymous small watercolor from the 1830's of a baby dwarfed by the chair that he is using for support as he stands up. His toy horse is on the seat. He stands on a colorful patterned carpet in bright red shoes. ''It was done in Nantucket,'' Mr. Wheatcroft said. ''The museum there has two others by the artist.'' 

Shaker Sets Records
 Last Sunday nearly 400 people attended the all-Shaker auction conducted by Willis Henry in Pittsfield, Mass. There were 90 consignors to the nearly 300-lot auction, which grossed $1.3 million (including the auctioneer's 17 percent commission) and set two world records for Shaker artifacts sold at auction. The worktable offered by the former dealer Ed Clerk sold for $491,400, including commission (against a high estimate of $150,000). A yellow oval basket sold for $105,300, including commission (against a high estimate of $30,000).
 ''If Shaker is great, it brings phenomenal prices,'' Mr. Henry said. ''If it's medium, it brings fair to good prices. If it's not very good, forget it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A watercolor of Electa Snow Pierce, 1832, by Ruth W. Shute and Samuel A. Shute, to be auctioned this weekend in Manchester, N.H. (Photo by Ellen McDermitt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (56%) Antiques; Auctions; Folk Art; Shakers (Society of Believers)

ORGANIZATION: Willis Henry (Auction House)

PERSON: Wendy Moonan

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%) Manchester (Nh); Pittsfield (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



51 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 5600 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: August 4 - August 10

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'THE FANTASTICKS' In previews; opens on Aug. 16. If you were one of the people who missed the 17,162 performances of this show the last time around, good news: Harvey Schmidt and Tom Jones's romantic musical, which closed in 2002, is back (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100.

'INDIAN BLOOD' In previews; opens on Thursday. Primary Stages presents A. R. Gurney's new comedy about a rebellious boy coming of age in the 1940's. Mark Lamos directs (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200.

'MARTIN SHORT: FAME BECOMES ME' In previews; opens on Aug. 17. This musical sendup of biographical shows features Martin Short and an ensemble telling the story of his life. Mr. Short's beloved old characters, like Ed Grimley and Jiminy Glick, make appearances (2:15). Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

MIDTOWN INTERNATIONAL THEATER FESTIVAL Through Sunday. This seventh annual showcase can all too easily get lost in the shuffle, despite its large and diverse collection of shows. There should be more than 60 productions this season, at four locations on 36th Street. Schedules and information: (212) 868-4444.

'MOTHER COURAGE AND HER CHILDREN' Previews start Tuesday. Opens Aug. 21. Meryl Streep plays the title character in Tony Kushner's translation of Brecht's seminal play about a world at war. Kevin Kline also stars, and George C. Wolfe directs (2:30). Delacorte Theater, Central Park. Free. Ticket information: (212) 539-8750.

'SEVEN GUITARS' In previews; opens Aug. 24. Signature Theater presents its first August Wilson revival since the playwright's death last year. Ruben Santiago-Hudson, who starred in the 1996 Broadway production, directs (2:45). Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529.

Broadway

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, best book of a musical and best original score, 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920's stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, ''The Drowsy Chaperone'' has theatergoers responding as if they were withering house plants, finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the eager, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

*'FAITH HEALER' In the title role of Brian Friel's great play, Ralph Fiennes paints a portrait of the artist as dreamer and destroyer that feels both as old as folklore and so fresh that it might be painted in wet blood. Also starring Cherry Jones and the superb Ian McDiarmid, this mesmerizing series of monologues has been directed with poetic starkness by Jonathan Kent (2:35). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE HISTORY BOYS' (Tony Awards, best play and best direction of a play, 2006) Madly enjoyable. Alan Bennett's play about a battle for the hearts and minds of a group of university-bound students, imported with the original British cast from the National Theater, moves with a breezy narrative swagger that transcends cultural barriers. Directed by Nicholas Hytner, with a perfectly oiled ensemble led by the superb Richard Griffiths and Stephen Campbell Moore as schoolmasters with opposing views of history and education (2:40). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' (Tony Award, best musical, 2006) From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE LIEUTENANT OF INISHMORE' Please turn off your political-correctness monitor along with your cellphone for Martin McDonagh's gleeful, gory and appallingly entertaining play. This blood farce about terrorism in rural Ireland, acutely directed by Wilson Milam, has a carnage factor to rival Quentin Tarantino's. But it is also wildly, absurdly funny and, even more improbably, severely moral (1:45). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' (Tony Award, best direction of a musical, 2006) Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a super-deluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE WEDDING SINGER' An assembly-kit musical that might as well be called ''That 80's Show,'' this stage version of the 1998 film is all winks and nods and quotations from the era of big hair and junk bonds. The cast members, who include Stephen Lynch and Laura Benanti, are personable enough, which is not the same as saying they have personalities (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'ALL THIS INTIMACY' In this not-very-deep comedy-drama by Rajiv Joseph, a 30-year-old poet impregnates not only his girlfriend, but also two other women, within two weeks. The women, once they meet, are surprisingly unimpressed with his notable virility (1:45). McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212) 246-4422. (Neil Genzlinger)

'AMAJUBA: LIKE DOVES WE RISE' Tormenting memories dissolve into soaring music, and pain is salved by a collective embrace in this heartfelt, powerfully performed theater piece about life under apartheid. The recollections of the five cast members and authors are woven together with a cappella performances of spirituals from the apartheid years and vignettes performed by the full cast. The actors all but glow with a sense of mission, as if telling their stories has given them new purpose and power (1:30). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood)

'CRAZY FOR THE DOG' Christopher Boal's effective family melodrama about a brother, a sister, a wife and a boyfriend caught in a web of recrimination and confession, touched off by the kidnapping of a shih tzu (2:00). Bouwerie Lane Theater, 330 Bowery, at Bond Street, East Village, (212) 677-0060, Ext. 16. (George Hunka)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' A powerfully sung revival of the 1968 revue, presented with affectionate nostalgia by the director Gordon Greenberg. As in the original, two men (Robert Cuccioli and Drew Sarich) and two women (Natascia Diaz and Gay Marshall) perform a wide selection of Brel's plaintive ballads and stirring anthems. Ms. Marshall's captivating performance of ''Ne Me Quitte Pas,'' sung in the original French and with heart-stirring transparency, represents Brel at his best (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School. Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200 (1:10). (Anita Gates)

'PIG FARM' A gleefully stupid comedy by Greg Kotis about lust and violence in the farm belt, with a few gristly bits of satire aimed at the fat-bellied American electorate thrown in for good measure. Powered by the frenzied commitment of the four skilled actors who make up its cast, the comedy careers around the stage like an interminable improv session for a still-unformulated sketch on ''Saturday Night Live.'' (2:15). Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Isherwood)

'SHOUT!' A mini-skirted, go-go booted zombie of a musical about women searching for love in London in the 1960's. You won't see anything this groovy, this far-out, this with-it outside of, oh, maybe the show room of a Carnival Cruise ship (1:30). Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'A STONE CARVER' Despite the high cliche factor, William Mastrosimone's play about an Italian immigrant who is losing his house to a highway exit is timely and sporadically touching, in large part because of Dan Lauria's over-the-top performance as the title character and old-world patriarch who makes a mean barrel of wine and never talks when he can shout (1:40). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555. (Andrea Stevens)

'TEMPEST TOSSED FOOLS' This musical audience-participation children's version of ''The Tempest'' is rowdy, colorful and not all that Shakespearean. Manhattan Ensemble Theater, 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

* '[TITLE OF SHOW]' Jeff Bowen and Hunter Bell are the authors, stars and subject matter of this delectable new musical about its own making. The self-consciousness is tempered by a wonderful cast performing with the innocence of kids cavorting in a sandbox. It's a worthy postmodern homage to classic backstage musicals, and an absolute must for show queens (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

'IF YOU GIVE A MOUSE A COOKIE & OTHER STORY BOOKS' This children's musical, made up of 10 sketches based on 8 books, is diverse, adorable and free. Also, the adults laugh (1:00). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village; (212) 642-9033. (Gates)

'NEVER TELL' The computer-involved characters in James Christy's intriguing drama about trust, video art and a society-changing application can be irritating but they're never boring (1:50). Michael Weller Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. (Gates)

Long-Running Shows

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' Another excavation of what seems to have become Broadway's favorite musical terrain -- call it Scamalot, where con men are king (see ''The Producers''). Now starring Keith Carradine and Brian D'Arcy James as the mismatched swindlers (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DRUMSTRUCK' Lightweight entertainment that stops just short of pulverizing the eardrums (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

* 'BRIDGE & TUNNEL' (Tony Award, special theatrical event, 2006) This delightful solo show, written and performed by Sarah Jones, is a sweet-spirited valentine to New York, its polyglot citizens and the larger notion of an all-inclusive America. In 90 minutes of acutely observed portraiture gently tinted with humor, Ms. Jones plays more than a dozen men and women participating in an open-mike evening of poetry for immigrants. Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200; closes on Sunday. (Isherwood)

'CLOUD TECTONICS' A solid rendition of Jose Rivera's thin fable about time, centering on a hitchhiking woman who has been pregnant for two years. Luis Vega is particularly good as the man who gives her a ride and shelter for the night (1:30). Culture Project-45 Below, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 868-4444; closes tomorrow. (Genzlinger)

'THE FIELD' John B. Keane's portrait of rural life in Ireland in the mid-20th century, both sorrowful and censorious. This sturdy new production, directed by Ciaran O'Reilly, features Marty Maguire as Bull McCabe, a tough farmer who will stop at nothing to preserve his right to raise his cattle on a field about to be auctioned. A little moralistic, but powerful nonetheless (2:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737; closes on Sunday. (Isherwood)

* 'ROOM SERVICE' The Peccadillo Theater Company puts a charge into this old comedy from the 1930's, thanks to a brisk pace by the director, Dan Wackerman, and a dozen dandy performances. David Edwards is the would-be producer whose bills threaten to swamp his efforts to put a show on Broadway, and Fred Berman is particularly fine as his director (2:00). Bank Street Theater, 155 Bank Street, West Village, (212) 868-4444; closes tomorrow. (Genzlinger)

* 'SPRING AWAKENING' German schoolboys of the 19th century frolic like rockers in this adventurous new musical adapted from the 1891 play by Frank Wedekind about sex, death and adolescence. Staged with elan by Michael Mayer, and featuring alluringly melancholy music by the pop singer-songwriter Duncan Sheik, this is a flawed but vibrant show that stretches the stage musical in new directions (2:10). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200; closes tomorrow. (Isherwood)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

* 'AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH' (PG, 96 minutes) Al Gore gives a lecture on climate change. One of the most exciting and necessary movies of the year. Seriously. (A. O. Scott)

'THE ANT BULLY' (PG, 90 minutes) A young boy goes to live among the ants, who talk remarkably like Academy Award-winning actors. (Scott)

'BEEN RICH ALL MY LIFE' (No rating, 80 minutes) This admiring documentary portrait of the Silver Belles, an indefatigable troupe of veteran Harlem tap dancers between the ages of 84 and 96, is a valuable historical footnote and a useful how-to movie about making the most of old age. (Stephen Holden)

'CARS' (G, 114 minutes) The latest 3-D toon from Pixar just putt, putt, putts along, a shining model of technological progress and consumer safety. John Lasseter directed, and Owen Wilson provides the voice of the little red race car who learns all the right lessons from, among others, a 1951 Hudson Hornet given voice by Paul Newman. (Manohla Dargis)

* 'CHANGING TIMES' (No rating, 95 minutes, in French and Arabic) Gerard Depardieu and Catherine Deneuve star in Andre Techine's rich, warmhearted exploration of cultural collision in contemporary Tangier. A half-dozen skillfully interwoven subplots create a set of variations on the theme of divided sensibilities tugging one another into states of perpetual unrest and possible happiness. (Holden)

'CLERKS II' (R, 98 minutes) More than a decade later, Kevin Smith's New Jersey underachievers have moved from a convenience store to a fast-food franchise. The humor is reliably filthy and frequently hilarious, and the filmmaking is a few steps above rudimentary, but the movie's poignant sweetness is disarming. It has a dirty mind, but its heart is remarkably pure. (Scott)

'CLICK' (PG-13, 98 minutes) Adam Sandler stars in this unfunny comedy about a harried family man who uses a universal remote to hop-scotch through time. It's a wonderful life, not. (Dargis)

'THE DA VINCI CODE' (PG-13, 148 minutes) Theology aside, ''The Da Vinci Code'' is, above all, a murder mystery. And as such, once it gets going, Ron Howard's movie has its pleasures. He and the screenwriter Akiva Goldsman have deftly rearranged some elements of the plot, unkinking a few overelaborate twists and introducing others that keep the action moving along. The movie does, however, take a while to accelerate, popping the clutch and leaving rubber on the road as it tries to establish who is who, what he's doing and why. So I certainly can't support any calls for boycotting or protesting this busy, trivial, inoffensive film. Which is not to say that I'm recommending that you go see it. (Scott)

'THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA' (PG-13, 106 minutes) Lauren Weisberger's score-settling best seller about a terrible (and famous) boss is reimagined and reversed. Anne Hathaway plays the beleaguered assistant, but she is much less interesting -- and in the end less sympathetic -- than the boss, Miranda Priestly, incarnated by Meryl Streep as a subtle and searching (and very funny) portrait of glamour and power. (Scott)

* 'Gabrielle' (No rating, 90 minutes) A film of eccentric beauty and wild feeling, directed by the consistently inventive Patrice Chereau and starring the supremely well-matched Pascal Greggory and Isabelle Huppert, about the dissolution of a haute bourgeois Parisian marriage, about 1912. (Dargis)

'THE GROOMSMEN' (R, 93 minutes) Just when it seems that Edward Burns might have pulled off an American ''I Vitelloni,'' his X-ray vision into life in an Irish-American enclave in New York glazes over, and he resolves his characters' anxiety and despair with tearful hugs and phony reassurances. (Holden)

* 'HEADING SOUTH' (No rating, 105 minutes, in English and French) Sex tourism involving middle-aged white women and black beach boys at a Haitian resort in the late 1970's is the subject of Laurent Cantet's third film, one of the most truthful explorations of desire, age and youth ever filmed, with a politically charged subtext about capitalist imperialism. (Holden)

'I Like Killing Flies' (R, 79 minutes) The documentary filmmaker Matt Mahurin paints an engaging if glib portrait of Kenny Shopsin, of the legendary or notorious, depending on your experience, Greenwich Village eatery that bears his name. (Dargis)

'KEEPING UP WITH THE STEINS' (PG-13, 84 minutes) A rollicking bar mitzvah comedy begins as a growling, razor-toothed satire of carnivorous consumption in Hollywood. But after the first half-hour, those growls subside into whimpers, and the fangs are retracted, and the movie morphs turns into a feel-good family comedy oozing good vibes. (Holden)

'LADY IN THE WATER' (PG-13, 108 minutes) In this watchable folly, Paul Giamatti plays a building manager who encounters a menagerie of otherworldly creatures, most important Bryce Dallas Howard's water nymph. The writer and director M. Night Shyamalan wants us to believe, mostly in the myth of his own genius. (Dargis)

'LITTLE MAN' (PG-13, 90 minutes) A belligerent midget jewel thief assaults groins and molests women in this infantile comedy from the Wayans brothers. (Nathan Lee)

* Little Miss Sunshine (R, 101 minutes) A bittersweet comedy of dysfunction that takes place at the terminus of the American dream. The excellent cast includes Greg Kinnear, Steve Carell, Toni Collette, Paul Dano and that national treasure, Alan Arkin. (Dargis)

* 'MIAMI VICE' (R, 133 minutes) This updating of the 1980's television series cost more than the annual budget of the real-life Miami Police Department, making it the most expensive experimental art film ever made. (Scott)

* 'MONSTER HOUSE' (PG, 86 minutes) This scary movie for kids provides more fun in 86 minutes than all the other would-be summer blockbusters combined. A trio of intrepid youngsters face down a demonic dwelling in a quiet suburb. The motion-capture animation produces an uncanny feeling of realism, while the fantastical effects are spooky, witty and spectacular. (Scott)

* 'THE OH IN OHIO' (No rating, 91 minutes) A feel-good movie about feeling good, this fresh and very funny sex comedy stars Parker Posey as a woman in search of an orgasm, Paul Rudd as her frustrated husband, and a delirious supporting cast: Danny DeVito as a swimming pool salesman, Heather Graham as a sex shop clerk and Liza Minnelli as a masturbation guru who encourages frigid women to ''liberate your labia!'' (Lee)

* 'NACHO LIBRE' (PG, 91 minutes) A sweet bliss-out from the writers Mike White, Jerusha Hess and Jared Hess, who also directed, that finds a glorious Jack Black as a half-Mexican, half-Scandinavian monastery cook who aches to belong to another brotherhood, that of the luchadores, or masked wrestlers. (Dargis)

'OVER THE HEDGE' (PG, 83 minutes) This tale about some woodland critters threatened by their new human neighbors has the technical trappings of a worthwhile Saturday matinee, so it's too bad no one paid commensurate attention to the script. The writers, including Karey Kirkpatrick, who directed with Tim Johnson, pad the story with the usual yuks and some glop about family, but there is no poetry here and little thought. (Dargis)

'PEACEFUL WARRIOR' (PG-13, 120 minutes) As ludicrous as the title promises, yet supremely unembarrassed, this New Age enlightenment parable has its heart in the right place, but a mind of corny mush. (Lee)

'The Photographer, His Wife, Her Lover' (Not rated, 79 minutes) Art, adultery, divorce, lawyers and pots of money. Paul Yule's documentary wades unproductively through the mess surrounding the estate of the Brooklyn-born photographer O. Winston Link, who died in 2001. (Holden)

'Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest' (PG-13, 151 minutes) Although there are memorable bits and pieces, this is a movie with no particular interest in coherence, economy or feeling. (Scott)
* 'A PRAIRIE HOME COMPANION' (PG-13, 105 minutes) Garrison Keillor's long-running Public Radio hootenanny turns out to be the perfect vehicle for Robert Altman's fluid, chaotic humanism. The performances -- especially by Lily Tomlin and Meryl Streep as a pair of singing sisters -- are so full of relaxed vitality that you almost don't notice that the film is, at heart, a wry, sober contemplation of mortality. (Scott)

'A SCANNER DARKLY' (R, 100 minutes) Identities shift and melt like shadows in Richard Linklater's animated adaptation of the Philip K. Dick semispeculative novel ''A Scanner Darkly,'' a look at a future that appears an awful lot like today. With the voices and gestures of Keanu Reeves, Woody Harrelson, Winona Ryder and a wonderful Robert Downey Jr. (Dargis)

* Scoop (PG-13, 96 minutes) A not especially funny yet oddly appealing comedy in which Woody Allen and Scarlett Johansson make like Nick and Nora, but with more shtick and no martinis (or Asta). (Dargis)

'SHADOWBOXER' (R, 93 minutes) This garish thriller starring Helen Mirren and Cuba Gooding Jr. as contract killers and lovers is an extravagance that leaves you with your mouth hanging open -- partly in admiration of its audacity and partly in disbelief at its preposterousness. (Holden)

'STRANGERS WITH CANDY' (R, 87 minutes) High school high jinks, adapted from the beloved Comedy Central series. The comedy is stretched a little thin by the feature length, but there are still some laughs. (Scott)

'MY SUPER EX-GIRLFRIEND' (PG-13, 110 minutes) A shaky comedy from the director Ivan Reitman, in which ''Fatal Attraction'' meets ''Wonder Woman,'' by way of Uma Thurman, Luke Wilson and some sexist she-devil cliches, some funny, others not. (Dargis)

'SUPERMAN RETURNS' (PG-13, 157 minutes) Last seen larking about on the big screen in the 1987 dud ''Superman IV,'' the Man of Steel has been resurrected in Bryan Singer's leaden new film not only to fight for truth, justice and the American way, but also to give Mel Gibson's passion a run for his box-office money. Where once the superhero flew up, up and away, he now flies down, down, down, sent from above to save mankind from its sins and another bummer summer. (Dargis)

'13 Tzameti' (No rating, 90 minutes) The flashy black-and-white directorial debut of the Georgian filmmaker Gela Babluani is a sadistic, arty thriller that suggests a French new wave film infected by a virulent strain of Eastern European nihilism. (Holden)

* 'WHO KILLED THE ELECTRIC CAR?' (PG, 92 minutes) A murder mystery, a call to arms and an effective inducement to rage, Chris Paine's film about the recent rise and fall of the electric car is the latest and one of the more successful additions to the growing ranks of issue-oriented documentaries. (Dargis)

'X-MEN: THE LAST STAND' (PG-13, 104 minutes) As expected, the third and presumably last film about the powerful Marvel Comics mutants who walk and often fight among us pretty much looks and plays like the first two, though perhaps with more noise and babes, and a little less glum. The credited writers here are Simon Kinberg and Zak Penn, who, like the director, Brett Ratner, are not mutant enough to fly. (Dargis)

You, Me and Dupree' (PG-13, 108 minutes) Owen Wilson stars as the dude who comes to dinner and stays way past dessert in Joe and Anthony Russo's generally unfunny comedy. A fine Matt Dillon and a decorative Kate Hudson also star, rather more wanly. (Dargis)

Film Series

THE BEST OF BUSTER: KEATON COMEDY CLASSICS (Through Sept. 25) Film Forum's eight-week festival of the silent comedies of the brilliantly stone-faced Keaton (1895-1966) begins on Monday night. ''The General'' (1926), his version of the great Civil War locomotive chase, will be shown, along with three early-1920's shorts. Other films in the series include ''Sherlock Jr.'' (1924) and ''The Cameraman'' (1928). 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110; $10. (Anita Gates)

FRANK BORZAGE, HOLLYWOOD ROMANTIC (Through Aug. 20) The 24-film retrospective of Borzage (1893-1962) continues at the Museum of the Moving Image with four films this weekend. They include two World War I love stories with literary pedigrees: ''A Farewell to Arms'' (1932), starring Gary Cooper and Helen Hayes, and ''Three Comrades'' (1938), with Robert Taylor and Margaret Sullavan. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Gates)

NOW THAT'S HIP! (Through Aug. 29) As part of the River to River arts festival, the HIP Health Plan of New York is sponsoring outdoor screenings of movies set in New York, preceded by shorts from New York filmmakers. The four-movie August series begins on Tuesday with ''Barefoot in the Park'' (1967), in which Robert Redford and Jane Fonda play mismatched newlyweds in a minuscule downtown apartment. The other films, all to be shown on Tuesday nights, are ''Pickup on South Street'' (1953), ''Mr. Deeds Goes to Town'' (1936) and ''Rear Window'' (1954). Elevated Acre, 55 Water Street, (212) 835-2789; free. (Gates)

PLAY IT LOUD: ROCK DOCS 2006 (Through Thursday) The Film Society of Lincoln Center's nine-film series of rock-music documentaries rocks on. This weekend's films include ''Everyone Stares: The Police Inside Out'' (2005), the history of the band as seen by its drummer, Stewart Copeland; and ''No Direction Home: Bob Dylan'' (2005), Martin Scorsese's portrait of the young Dylan. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Manhattan, (212) 875-5600; $10. (Gates)

RAISING HELL: SAM PECKINPAH (Through Aug. 29) BAMcinematek's monthlong tribute to Peckinpah (1925-84) continues. Monday night's feature is ''The Getaway'' (1972), in which Steve McQueen and Ali McGraw rob a bank, badly. Tuesday night's is ''The Ballad of Cable Hogue'' (1970), starring Jason Robards as an entrepreneurial prospector. BAM Rose Cinemas, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

SUMMER SWASHBUCKLERS (Through Aug. 24) Film Forum's 36-movie celebration of old-style action pictures begins this weekend with two double features. ''Captain Blood'' (1935), with Errol Flynn, and ''The Scarlet Pimpernel'' (1935), with Leslie Howard, are on the bill for Friday and Saturday, to be shown with ''The Scarlet Pumpernickel'' (1950), starring the dashing Daffy Duck. Sunday's films are ''The Prisoner of Zenda'' (1937), with Ronald Colman and Douglas Fairbanks Jr., and ''The Mark of Zorro'' (1920), with the other Fairbanks -- Douglas Sr. (See above.) (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

* CELEBRATE BROOKLYN AFRICAN FESTIVAL (Tomorrow) One of the highlights of the Celebrate Brooklyn schedule each summer is its daylong African concert, any 10 minutes of which is well worth the $3 suggested donation. This year features Kekele, a supergroup of Congolese rumba elders gathered a la ''Buena Vista Social Club,'' and Lagbaja, a Nigerian bandleader who plays muscular Afro-funk and hides his face in a scarf to symbolize Africa's political anonymity. (His name means ''anybody'' in Yoruban.) Others on the bill include Razia, a singer born in Madagascar and raised in Gabon; the African Underground All-Stars, a pan-African hip-hop collective whose M.C.'s include Chosan, from Sierra Leone, and Dola, of Tanzania; and Martino Atangana, a Cameroonian guitarist who lives in New York. From 2 to 9 p.m., Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, (718) 855-7882, brooklynx.org. Lagbaja also plays at 8 and 11 p.m. on Wednesday at S.O.B.'s., 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940, sobs.com; $22 in advance, $25 at the door. (Ben Sisario)

MARSHALL CRENSHAW (Tuesday and Wednesday) Marshall Crenshaw's songs seem to roll off the guitar in a casual blend of pre-1970's styles -- folk-rock, surf-rock, country and above all, the Beatles -- that put melody first. With his winsome tenor, he delves into the ways love goes right and goes wrong, from distant yearning to the aftermath of infidelity, hiding turmoil within the chiming tunes. At 10 p.m., Rodeo Bar, 375 Third Avenue, at 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 683-6500, rodeobar.com; no cover. (Jon Pareles)

BLOSSOM DEARIE (Tomorrow and Sunday) To watch this singer and pianist is to appreciate the power of a carefully deployed pop-jazz minimalism combined with a highly discriminating taste in songs. The songs date from all periods of a career remarkable for its longevity and for Ms. Dearie's stubborn independence and sly wit. Tomorrow at 7 p.m., Sunday at 6:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133, dannysgrandseapalace.com; $25, with a $15 minimum, or $54.50 for a dinner-and-show package. (Stephen Holden)

HAZEL DICKENS; BONNY BILLY AND CAPTAIN ANOMOANON (Tomorrow and Sunday) The daughter of a West Virginia coal miner, Hazel Dickens sings sharp and unadorned bluegrass songs about hardship and defiant proletarian pride. (''They'll never shoot that union out of me.'') Nineteen years ago she appeared in John Sayles's film ''Matewan'' alongside Will Oldham, who has since developed a postmodern Appalachian folk style. He performs as Bonny Billy (one of his many pseudonyms), along with his brother Ned, who appears as Captain Anomoanon. Tomorrow at 7 and 9:30 p.m., Sunday at 4 and 6:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200, joespub.com; sold out tomorrow, $30 on Sunday. (Sisario)

DIRTY DOZEN BRASS BAND (Tuesday) The magnificent ensemble that revitalized New Orleans brass-band music. It swaggers through the city's whole musical heritage: parades, rumba, swing, be-bop and modern jazz, for starters. Solos can head for the far side of tonality, but the band never loses touch with gutbucket, danceable funk. At 8:15 p.m., Josie Robertson Plaza at Lincoln Center, Columbus Avenue at 64th Street, (212) 875-5766, lincolncenter.org; free. (Pareles)

FORRO IN THE DARK (Wednesday) For more than three years now, this group has been leading one of New York's best and lowest-tech dance parties at the East Village bar Nublu. The groove is a humble and sexy two-beat dance from northeastern Brazil called forro, made with accordion, hand-held percussion and, since this is New York, whiffs of distorted electric guitar. At 11 p.m. and 12:30 a.m., 62 Avenue C, between Fourth and Fifth Streets, East Village, nublu.net; $10. (Sisario)

DIAMANDA GALAS (Thursday) She is invariably dressed in black, her face in witchy streaks of makeup, but Diamanda Galas needs only her voice to terrify, seduce and beguile. She slides from a low, sensual growl to painful yet musically precise shrieks, and has a vast repertory that ranges from darkened Johnny Cash ballads to her own chilling AIDS Masses. In the first of four shows at the new Spiegeltent downtown, she offers ''Long Black Veil,'' a program of morbid music by Screamin' Jay Hawkins, Ornette Coleman and others. At 6 p.m., Fulton Fish Market, Pier 17, Fulton and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, spiegelworld.com; $30. (Sisario)

* HOT CHIP (Tonight) With wobbly electronic rhythms that seem to be made of melting jelly, and a strong command of the drippy disco ballad, this English group plays a kind of wistful but still snarky dance music. Get too lost in the beats and you'll miss smart gags like the oh-so-art-rock countdown of nonsense words in descending numbers of letters (''S-E-X-I-N-G, C-A-S-I-O, P-O-K-E''). With Oppenheimer. At 7, South Street Seaport, Pier 17, Fulton and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 835-2789, seaportmusicfestival.com; free. (Sisario)

JPMORGAN CHASE LATINO CULTURAL FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday) This two-week multidisciplinary and multinational series in Queens winds up this weekend. The gritty, deep-voiced Cuban singer Albita performs tonight. Tomorrow features Inti-Illimani, a veteran Chilean group that plays traditional Andean songs, as well as African and Spanish hybrids. On Sunday Peru Negro, a big troupe of dancers and singers, traverses three centuries of Afro-Peruvian music. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 3 and 7 p.m., Queens Theater in the Park, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 760-0064, queenstheatre.org; $35 tonight and Sunday, $30 tomorrow; $5 off when bought in advance. (Sisario)

LATIN ALTERNATIVE MUSIC CONFERENCE (Tonight and tomorrow) This annual series of concerts and discussion panels began six years ago, when a few Latin pop stars stood atop the charts (Ricky Martin, Jennifer Lopez), a varied rock and electronic scene flourished underground, and ''rock en Espanol'' was a marketing buzzword.The situation now is much the same, with fewer buzzwords: Shakira is an international phenomenon, while most Latin rock artists remain largely unknown to English-speaking American audiences. This will be mulled extensively at the daytime panels, but the best proof of the scene's vitality is the music itself. This weekend offers two free shows: Tonight at Celebrate Brooklyn are the Venezuelan groove-rockers Los Amigos Invisibles; Los Bunkers, from Chile; and Belanova, an electro-pop group from Mexico. Tomorrow afternoon at Central Park SummerStage are Gustavo Cerati, the former leader of the Argentine rock heroes Soda Stereo; Calle 13, a Puerto Rican reggaeton group; and the Mexican Institute of Sound. Tonight at 7:30, Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, (718) 855-7882; $3 suggested donation. Tomorrow at 3, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-2777; free, but a donation is suggested. Information: latinalternative.com. (Sisario)

LL COOL J (Monday) One of the first bigger-than-the-block personalities of rap, LL Cool J still follows the same few guidelines of self-representation that have served him throughout his long career: appear shirtless as often as possible for photographers, title all your albums either after yourself (''Todd Smith,'' his latest, refers to his given name, James Todd Smith) or some superlative that Muhammad Ali might have used (''Phenomenon,'' ''Greatest of All Time''), and perform in as sweatily vigorous a way as you can. At 7:30 p.m., Wingate Field, Winthrop Street, between Brooklyn and Kingston Avenues, East Flatbush, Brooklyn, (718) 469-1912, brooklynconcerts.com; free. (Sisario)

* MANU CHAO (Monday) This great globalist rocker makes a rare appearance. In the 1980's, Manu Chao, a musical omnivore born in France to Spanish parents, led the pioneering Latin rock band Mano Negra, which fused the angry political punk of the Clash with flamenco and Algerian rai. Since the late 90's, despite minimal output, he has been a celebrated and inspirational symbol of high-minded, do-it-yourself multiculturalism: he dabbles in reggae and dub, rap, salsa, calypso and rock, and recently produced the eclectic Malian duo Amadou and Mariam. He plays a benefit concert for Celebrate Brooklyn, with Plastilina Mosh as the opening act. At 7 p.m., Prospect Park Bandshell (see above); sold out. (Sisario)

DAVE MATTHEWS BAND (Tomorrow and Sunday) His own private Bonnaroo: Dave Matthews has programmed two days of kindred spirits at Randalls Island, a minifestival with a much more manageable seven bands instead of seven dozen. Both days feature the Dave Matthews Band, the robotically virtuosic banjoing of Bela Fleck and the Flecktones, the three-cheers-for-marijuana ska of Slightly Stoopid, and the Grateful Dead-influenced Tea Leaf Green. Tomorrow also has the mighty Southern rockers Gov't Mule, and on Sunday David Gray, the British singer-songwriter whose ballads mingle acoustic guitar and gentle electronica, will perform. At noon, Randalls Island, near Icahn Stadium, 1 Randalls Island, randallsislandconcerts.com, (212) 307-7171; sold out tomorrow, $55 and $62.50 on Sunday. (Sisario)

THE MIGHTY SPARROW (Tuesday) With wry lyrics and supple melodies, the Mighty Sparrow, who was born Slinger Francisco, made the carnival music of Trinidad and Tobago a political force and a pop phenomenon with a string of competition-winning hit songs that stretches back to the mid-1950's in which he comments on everything from the Shah to the first black Miss Universe. At 7 p.m., Queensbridge Park, Queens, (212) 360-8290, cityparksfoundation.org; free. (Pareles)

NEWPORT FOLK FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday) In a way, this veteran festival, home of ''We Shall Overcome'' singalongs and Bob Dylan's 1965 electric crossing, is one of the most creatively programmed in the country. To expand the idea of folk music -- or at least to fill up the weekend at a time when folk groups are in small supply -- Newport folds in jazz, soul, even greasy funk. Tonight's concert has more traditional fare, with Ronan Tynan and Cherish the Ladies, both from Ireland. On tomorrow's roster are David Gray, Rosanne Cash, Bettye LaVette, Sonny Landreth, Sonya Kitchell, Mary Gauthier and others; Sunday features the Indigo Girls, the veteran New Orleans funk group the Meters, Madeleine Peyroux, Keller Williams and Odetta. Absent: any representation of the vital, young and underground ''freak folk'' movement. Tonight at 8, at the International Tennis Hall of Fame; tomorrow and Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. at Fort Adams State Park, Newport, R.I., (401) 847-3700, newportfolk.com; $30 to $75 tonight; $59 tomorrow and Sunday. (Sisario)

ONE RING ZERO (Monday) This Brooklyn band has set words by authors like Jonathan Lethem, Margaret Atwood and Rick Moody to kitchen-sink songs with toy piano and theremin. The group offers a screening of ''As Smart as They Are,'' a documentary about its formation. At 8 p.m., Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, spiegelworld.com; $20; $10 for members. (Sisario)

GRANT-LEE PHILLIPS (Thursday) Mr. Phillips harks back to the earnest ambitions and expansive melodies of Bob Dylan and John Lennon, singing with the conviction that rock can still be heroic. Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006, knittingfactory.com; $15. (Pareles)

THE RED KRAYOLA (Tuesday) The first album of the Red Crayola (as it was originally spelled) appeared in 1967, and Mayo Thompson has held on to its skewed psychedelic perspective ever since; he also spent some years as a member of Pere Ubu. He's fond of dissolving song structures, crypto-Marxist messages and woozy sounds, and when he reconvened the Red Krayola (the spelling was changed to avoid trademark problems) in 1994, he found fans and collaborators among progressive- and post-rock musicians. With Coyote, featuring members of the bands Vaz and Man Man. At 8 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103, northsix.com; $12. (Pareles)

* CANDI STATON (Wednesday) She has been a disco queen, a raw-voiced soul belter and, for much of the last two decades, a gospel singer. But Ms. Staton's greatest success has been with record collectors, who have kept her strong legacy of secular R & B alive and may have persuaded her to return to it: she recently released ''His Hands'' (Honest Jon's/Astralwerks), a stirring album of broken-heart songs and rich Southern blues that is her first such recording in decades. This concert is billed as Ms. Staton's first in New York in more than 20 years. With Stephanie McKay. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $25. (Sisario)

WARPED TOUR (Tomorrow) Now 12 years old, this skateboards-punk-and-tattoos circus includes Thursday, From Autumn to Ashes, Against Me!, Helmet, Joan Jett and the Blackhearts, the Sounds, Motion City Soundtrack, NOFX, Bouncing Souls, Damone, Saves the Day, Senses Fail and the Academy Is , Every Time I Die and many, many more. Best band name: Gym Class Heroes. Worst: Gatsby's American Dream. At noon, Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y., (631) 888-9000, warpedtour.com; $35. (Sisario)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

MONTY ALEXANDER JAZZ AND ROOTS ENSEMBLE (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Alexander's most recent album, ''Concrete Jungle'' (Telarc), pays tribute to his celebrated countryman Bob Marley. He travels similar territory here, featuring his piano and melodica playing in a buoyant ensemble with Wendel Ferraro on guitar and vocals, Hassan Shakur on bass and George Fludas on drums. Through Aug. 13. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. (Nate Chinen)

JEFF BALLARD AND MARK TURNER (Tonight) Mr. Ballard, a drummer, and Mr. Turner, a tenor saxophonist, constitute two-thirds of Fly, a brainy yet earthy group that seeks adventure in collective interplay. Without a bassist or any harmonic accompaniment, their rapport at this performance should be stark and inspired. At 8 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

SAM BARDFELD'S STUFF SMITH PROJECT (Thursday) Mr. Bardfeld is a violinist with a wide-ranging resume who spent all of June on tour with Bruce Springsteen's ''Seeger Sessions'' band. Here he pays tribute to a swing-era hero of his instrument, with help from the pianist Anthony Coleman and the bassist Brad Jones. 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

SAM BARSH (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Barsh is a keyboardist with a gift for groove, as he has demonstrated on recent albums by the bassist Avishai Cohen and the guitarist Jeff Parker. Performing on a new jazz series with a Hudson River view, he enlists Tim Collins on vibraphone, Ari Folman-Cohen on bass and Jaimeo Brown on drums. At 9 and 10:30, the River Room, Riverbank State Park, Riverside Drive at 145th Street, Hamilton Heights, (212) 491-1500, theriverroomofharlem.com; no cover. (Chinen)

BEDROCK (Tonight) The keyboardist Uri Caine, the bassist Tim Lefebvre and the drummer Zach Danziger make up this trio, which absorbs elements of fusion, funk and drum-and-bass into its own deliriously groovy style. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

STEVEN BERNSTEIN'S MILLENNIAL TERRITORY ORCHESTRA (Tonight) This little big band, led by the irrepressible slide trumpeter Steven Bernstein, has a new album called ''MTO Volume 1'' (Sunnyside) that's full of signature touches, like effervescent swing arrangements and covers of hits by Prince and Stevie Wonder. At 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $12. (Chinen)

DAVID BINNEY (Tuesday and Wednesday) This alto saxophonist pursues an avant-gardism that embraces harmony, melody and rhythm, along with amplification. He performs in two different settings next week, first with his group Balance (on Tuesday) and then with a more experimental crew (on Wednesday). Tuesday at 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883; cover, $10. Wednesday at 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* CARAMOOR JAZZ FESTIVAL (Tomorrow) Roughly 50 miles upstate, this festival offers some smartly simple programming in a tented open-air environment. First up is the Paris-based pianist Kirk Lightsey, in a tribute to the recently departed John Hicks; then a quartet led by the trumpeter Jeremy Pelt; then the pianist Steve Kuhn, presenting his Third Stream compositions for a 12-piece string ensemble. After a dinner break, the pianist McCoy Tyner leads the final group, conceived as a tribute to the legacy of Impulse Records; his all-star lineup includes David Liebman and Donald Harrison on saxophones, Nicholas Payton on trumpet and Steve Turre on trombone. Starts at 2:30 p.m., with hourly sets until a dinner break at 6:30; the final set begins at 8. Caramoor, Katonah, N.Y., (914) 232-1252, caramoor.org; $45 and $55. (Chinen)

RON CARTER QUARTET (Tonight) Mr. Carter is a deeply literate bassist and composer whose ensembles usually give off light but little heat. That's fitting, in a way, for this appearance in a luminous, glass-enclosed planetarium, a ''Starry Nights'' performance to be broadcast live on WBGO. At 7:30 p.m., Rose Center for Earth and Space, American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 81st Street, (212) 313-7278, amnh.org. Suggested admission: $14; $10.50 for students; $8 for children. (Chinen)

PAQUITO D'RIVERA SEXTET (Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. D'Rivera, a clarinetist, alto saxophonist and longtime Cuban exile, favors bright extroversion in his music, which usually incorporates Latin rhythms. His band includes the trumpeter Diego Urcola, the pianist Alon Yavnai, the bassist Oscar Stagnaro and the percussionists Mark Walker and Pernell Saturnino. Through Aug. 13. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $30 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

EHRAN ELISHA'S KINETIC MUSIC (Sunday) In the late 1990's, the percussionist Ehran Elisha recorded an album called ''Lowdown'' (CIMP) featuring a suitelike composition for a group that included Roy Campbell Jr. on trumpet, David Bindman on tenor saxophone, Sam Bardfeld on violin and Bill Lowe on tuba. Add Ken Filiano on bass, and you've got the same personnel here, though probably not the same music. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

BEN GERSTEIN COLLECTIVE (Wednesday) Boisterous free improvisation from bright young players with a history of collaboration: Mr. Gerstein on trombone, Jacob Sacks on keyboards, Jacob Garchik on accordion and electronics, Thomas Morgan and Dave D'Ambrosio on bass and Dan Weiss on drums. At 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

JONATHON HAFFNER QUARTET (Tomorrow and Sunday) Mr. Haffner, an adventurous young alto saxophonist, performs tomorrow night with Bob Hoffnar on pedal steel guitar, Chris Lightcap on bass and Dan Weiss on drums. On Sunday Mr. Haffner ventures into a more exposed setting, with no accompaniment whatsoever. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. Sunday at 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

ARTHUR KELL QUARTET (Monday) On ''Traveller'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), the bassist and composer Arthur Kell pursues a searching strain of modern jazz; he has worthy partners here in the saxophonist Donny McCaslin, the guitarist Brad Shepik and the drummer Gerald Cleaver. At 7 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; no cover. (Chinen)

* FRANCISCO MELA (Monday) Mr. Mela is a subtly dynamic drummer, attuned to the rhythmic depth of his native Cuba but adaptable to seemingly any sort of modern jazz. He's also an unassumingly good composer, as he demonstrates on ''Melao'' (Avya), the debut album that he celebrates with a quintet and several special guests, including the clarinetist and alto saxophonist Paquito D'Rivera, the tenor saxophonist Mark Turner and the pianist Jason Moran. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $10 at tables, $5 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

JAMES MOODY QUARTET (Thursday) Like his mentor Dizzy Gillespie, the saxophonist James Moody is a stalwart bebopper and one of jazz's most ebullient entertainers. He leads a solid working group consisting of the pianist Renee Rosnes, the bassist Todd Coolman and the drummer Adam Nussbaum. Through Aug. 13. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

SHOKO NAGAI'S EPHEMERAL (Tuesday) Playing piano, organ and sho, a bamboo pipe instrument, Ms. Nagai leads a five-piece ensemble in a new work inspired by premodern Japanese traditions, including Noh theater. Her collaborators are Ned Rothenberg on reeds, Jennifer Choi on violin and the brotherly rhythm section of Stomu Takeishi on bass and Satoshi Takeishi on percussion and electronics. 8 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

OZ NOY TRIO (Through Sunday) Oz Noy is an Israeli guitarist with a penchant for funk, as he demonstrates on his new album, ''Ha!'' (Magnatude). The audacious tone of that single-syllable title is just about right for Mr. Noy, who will play here, as on the album, with a rhythm team on loan from the CBS ''Late Show'' band: Will Lee on bass and Anton Fig on drums. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., with a midnight show tonight and tomorrow, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $27.50, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

GRETCHEN PARLATO (Tonight and Monday) Ms. Parlato's lilting voice has earned her a good many casual admirers, but a continuing deluge of critical acclaim has more to do with her musicianship, underscored here by her rapport with the guitarist Lage Lund, the bassist Alan Hampton and the drummer Jamire Williams. Tonight at 6, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, near Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; no cover. Monday at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $15, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

JEREMY PELT QUINTET (Tuesday through Thursday) The clarion tone and preternatural poise of Mr. Pelt's trumpet playing have earmarked him as a rising star in the jazz mainstream. As on his most recent album, ''Identity'' (MaxJazz), he is scheduled to play with the pianist Frank LoCrasto, the bassist Vicente Archer and the drummer Eric McPherson. Through Aug. 13. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

ANGELICA SANCHEZ QUINTET (Thursday) In her piano playing as well as in her composing, Ms. Sanchez seeks out the lyrical heartbeat within any avant-garde storm. Her working quintet includes the trumpeter Herb Robertson, the tenor saxophonist Tony Malaby, the bassist Mark Helias and the drummer Ches Smith. At 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

SHADES OF JAZZ (Wednesday and Thursday) This collective ensemble bears a strong resemblance to the Joe Lovano Quartet of 1990's vintage, which is almost certainly a good thing. In addition to Mr. Lovano on tenor and soprano saxophones, it includes Tom Harrell on trumpet, Cameron Brown on bass and Jimmy Cobb on drums. Through Aug. 12. At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

TODD SICKAFOOSE's BLOOD ORANGE (Tuesday) Mr. Sickafoose is a bassist and composer equally fond of rough edges and rounded forms, as he demonstrated on his last album, ''Blood Orange'' (Secret Hatch). He showcases his atmospheric compositions in an improvising chamber ensemble that includes Russ Johnson and Josh Roseman on trumpet and trombone, Adam Levy and Mike Gamble on guitars, Jenny Scheinman on violin and Ches Smith on drums. At 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

JOHN STETCH TRIO (Tuesday) As on his new album, ''Bruxin' '' (Justin Time), Mr. Stetch upholds an effervescent school of pianism, expertly backed by Sean Smith on bass and Rodney Green on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. (Chinen)

BOB STEWART TRIO FEATURING BILLY HART (Tomorrow) Mr. Stewart brings agility and wit to the art of jazz tuba playing, and he responds well to assertive yet sensitive drummers like Mr. Hart, who fully deserves his featured billing. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $12, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

LEW TABACKIN TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Tabackin is an expansive tenor saxophonist and a highly lyrical flutist who never sounds freer than in a trio setting, backed by only a bassist and a drummer -- here, Boris Kozlov and Mark Taylor. At 8 and 9:45, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

CEDAR WALTON QUINTET FEATURING STEVE TURRE (Tuesday through Thursday) As a pianist and composer, Mr. Walton practices an articulate, almost courtly variety of hard bop; he's at his best when his forms spark solos from collaborators like Mr. Turre, a trombonist, and Vincent Herring, an alto saxophonist. Through Aug. 13. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

TIM ZIESMER'S AMPERSAND (Sunday) Mr. Ziesmer's guitar playing is fluid and clearly rock-influenced, and his compositions feel sleekly modern, especially in the capable hands of the saxophonist and clarinetist Chris Speed, the bassist Drew Gress and the drummer Take Toriyama. At 8 and 10 p.m., Bar 4, 444 Seventh Avenue, at 15th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-9800, bar4.net; suggested cover, $5. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

 Opera

BARD SUMMERSCAPE (Tonight through Thursday) This festival at Bard College continues tonight with a repeat performance of ''Genoveva,'' Schumann's only opera. Leon Botstein leads the American Symphony Orchestra in what is being billed as its first American production. Kasper Bech Holten, the dynamic young director of the Royal Danish Opera, directs a cast that includes the soprano Ylva Kihlberg in the title role of the young wife. Her husband, the crusading knight Siegfried, will be sung by the baritone Johannes Mannov; Golo, whose love for her is unrequited, will be performed by the tenor Philippe Castagner. Lighter fare is scheduled for the afternoon: the director-choreographer Ken Roht will stage three Offenbach's operettas, ''Les Deux Aveugles,'' ''L'Ile de Tulipatan'' and ''Ba-ta-clan.'' Offenbach, today at 5 p.m., tomorrow and Sunday at 3 p.m., and Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m., $45; ''Genoveva,'' tonight and tomorrow night at 8, $35 to $85. Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7900, summerscape.bard.edu. (Vivien Schweitzer)

GLIMMERGLASS OPERA (Tonight through Thursday) Three operas are in this week's rotation: Rossini's ''Barber of Seville'' (tonight at 8, Monday at 1:30 p.m., and Thursday at 8 p.m.); Janacek's ''Jenufa'' (tomorrow night at 8 and Tuesday at 1:30 p.m.); Gilbert and Sullivan's ''Pirates of Penzance'' (tomorrow and Sunday, both at 1:30 p.m.). The ''Barber'' is a beauty. Route 80, north of Cooperstown, N.Y., (607) 547-2255, glimmerglass.org; $41 to $117. (Bernard Holland)

Classical Music

* ASTON MAGNA (Tonight and tomorrow) This esteemed early-music festival closes its summer programming -- the Aston Magna ensemble picks up again in the winter -- with a performance of Monteverdi's magnificent first opera, ''Orfeo.'' The cast includes the tenor Frank Kelley in the title role, as well as Roberta Anderson, Sharon Baker, Laurie Monahan and Deborah Rentz-Moore, sopranos; Jeffrey Gall, countertenor; William Hite, tenor; David Ripley, baritone; and Robert Honeysucker, bass. Daniel Stepner will conduct. Tonight at 8, Olin Humanities Building, Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7425; tomorrow at 5 p.m., Arts Center at Simon's Rock College, Great Barrington, Mass., (800) 875-7156; astonmagna.org; $35. (Allan Kozinn)

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Thursday) There are few cozier places to hear chamber music in New York than this floating concert hall (a former coffee barge) on the Brooklyn side of the East River. Tonight Bargemusic offers two gems of the chamber repertory. The first, Schubert's ''Two Cellos'' Quintet, will be a video recording from 1967, with the cellists Pablo Casals and Gregor Piatigorsky, the violinists Alexander Schneider and Isadore Cohen, and the violist Milton Thomas. After the intermission, Mark Peskanov on violin, Maurycy Banaszek on viola and Marie-Elisabeth Hecker on cello will perform Mozart's Divertimento in E flat (K. 563). Tomorrow and Sunday, Mr. Peskanov and Ms. Hecker are joined by Jose Ramos Santana, a pianist, in trios by Mozart (the E major, K. 542) and Dvorak (the ''Dumky'') and Brahms's Cello Sonata in F. And on Thursday, Steven Beck, a pianist, offers three Mozart sonatas (K. 279, 280 and 281), as well as preludes and fugues by Bach and Shostakovich. Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday nights at 7:30; Sunday at 4 p.m., Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65+, Thursdays and Fridays only. (Kozinn)

BERKSHIRE CHORAL FESTIVAL (Tomorrow) Robert Page, music director emeritus of the Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh, returns to this festival to lead an enthusiastic group of choristers who have gathered from across the country for an intense week of training. They will perform Verdi's Requiem, the work Mr. Page conducted at the festival's opening in 1982. The soloists are the soprano Natalya Kraevsky, the mezzo-soprano Karen Brunssen, the tenor Douglas Ahlstedt and the baritone Timothy Noble. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., the Berkshire School, Route 41, Sheffield, Mass., (413) 229-1999, chorus.org; $25 to $40. (Schweitzer)

CARAMOOR (Tonight and Sunday) The festival offers some prime chamber music this weekend. Tonight Trio Solisti plays Haydn's Trio in G, Schubert's Trio in B flat and Brahms's Trio in B in Caramoor's lovely Spanish Courtyard. On Sunday the estimable Tokyo String Quartet returns to the festival to perform Mozart's Quartet in C, Brahms's Quartet in A minor and ''A Way Alone'' by Takemitsu in the Venetian Theater. Tonight at 8, Sunday at 4:30 p.m., Katonah, N.Y.; (914) 232-1252, caramoor.org; $27 to $37 tonight, $19 to $49 on Sunday. (Schweitzer)

JUPITER SYMPHONY CHAMBER PLAYERS (Monday) This energetic young ensemble, joined by Roman Rabinovich, a pianist who was born in Uzbekistan and now lives in Israel, offers a varied program that includes Mozart's arrangement of a Bach Adagio and Fugue; Hoffmeister's arrangement, for flute quartet, of a Mozart piano sonata (K. 331); a piano quartet by Beethoven; and Zemlinsky's Clarinet Trio. At 8 p.m., JCC in Manhattan, 334 Amsterdam Avenue, at 76th Street, (212) 799-1259, jupitersymphony.com; $15. (Kozinn)

MARLBORO MUSIC FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday) Richard Goode and Mitsuko Uchida's prestigious chamber music retreat in rural Vermont kicks off this weekend with a benefit concert tonight featuring Saint-Saens's Fantaisie for Violin and Harp, Reger's Piano Trio in E minor and Schumann's Quartet in A. Tomorrow's program includes selections from Dvorak's ''Cypresses: Songs for String Quartet,'' Schoenberg's String Quartet No. 3 and Chausson's ''Chanson Perpetuelle.'' On Sunday the lineup includes Bartok's String Quartet No. 3, Mozart's Divertimento No. 7 in D and Dvorak's Quartet in D minor. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30, and Sunday at 2:30, Marlboro Music School and Festival, Marlboro, Vt., (802) 254-2394, marlboromusic.org; $15 to $30; $5 for canopy areas. (Schweitzer)

MOSTLY MOZART (Tonight through Thursday) Tonight's concert features Osmo Vanska conducting Frank Martin's ''Overture in Homage to Mozart,'' Mozart's Symphony No. 35 and Beethoven's ever-popular Violin Concerto, with Sergey Khachatryan as the soloist. The program repeats tomorrow. Tomorrow night the violinist Gidon Kremer and members of his Kremerata Baltica play Shostakovich, Sofia Gubaidulina and Mozart at the Kaplan Penthouse. On Sunday the Kremerata, fresh from performing the complete Mozart violin concertos at Tanglewood, bring the works to Lincoln Center, with Nos. 1 to 3 on Sunday and Nos. 4 and 5 on Monday; the second program also includes Alexander Raskatov's ''Five Minutes in the Life of W.A.M.'' The festival orchestra returns on Tuesday with Douglas Boyd, making his New York conducting debut with Ibert's ''Hommage a Mozart''; Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 21, with the soloist Alexei Lubimov; and the Symphony No. 38. That program repeats on Wednesday. The opera ''Zaide,'' opening Wednesday, should be a highlight of the festival. Mozart set the work as a clash between European slaves and Turkish sultans in the Ottoman Empire; the director Peter Sellars, an old hand at updating operas, uses contemporary Muslim-Western relations. Louis Langree leads the period-instrument ensemble Concerto Koln. On Thursday evening the pianist Christian Zacharias plays Mozart and Ravel in the Kaplan Penthouse. Orchestral concerts: Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 5 p.m., and Monday through Wednesday at 8 p.m., in Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center ($35 to $55); tomorrow and Thursday nights at 10:30 p.m., Kaplan Penthouse, 165 West 65th Street, Manhattan, ($35); ''Zaide,'' Wednesday at 8 p.m., Rose Theater, Broadway at 60th Street ($35 to $75), (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org. (Schweitzer)

ST. LAWRENCE STRING QUARTET (Tomorrow and Sunday) This dynamic ensemble contributes to the Mozart festivities with his Quartet in B flat (K. 159), followed by Debussy's Quartet and Franck's Piano Quintet in F minor, with Stephen Prutsman. The St. Lawrence's concert in the intimate barn at the Mount Lebanon Shaker Village (as part of the Tannery Pond Concerts series) will be followed on Sunday with a concert in another atmospheric barn, this time the open-backed Maverick Concert Hall, near Woodstock, N.Y., where the group will play Mozart's Quartet No. 21 in D (''Prussian No. 1''), Schumann's Quartet No. 1 and Shostakovich's Quartet No. 3. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., New Lebanon, N.Y., (888) 820-9441, tannerypondconcerts.org, $25 and $30; Sunday at 3 p.m., Maverick Road, between Routes 28 and 375, West Hurley, N.Y., (845) 679-8217, maverickconcerts.org; $20; $5 for students. (Schweitzer)

* SUMMERGARDEN (Sunday) The student ensembles from the Juilliard School who play these concerts tend to be devoted to contemporary music and play it with virtuosity and polish. The works, all new to New York, include Tigran Ayvazyan's String Quartet (2003); Ben-Zion Orgad's ''Arsalgia'' (2004); Carl Vine's String Quartet No. 3 (1994); John Psathas's ''Kartsigar'' (2004); Lera Auerbach's ''Epilogue'' (2005); and Elliott Sharp's ''Eye in the Sky'' (2006), which was composed for this concert. At 8 p.m., Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden at the Museum of Modern Art, 15 West 54th Street, (212) 708-9491, moma.org; free. (Kozinn)

TANGLEWOOD (Tonight through Sunday) The centerpiece of this busy weekend is Seiji Ozawa's return to Tanglewood, tomorrow evening, to lead the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the Tanglewood Festival Chorus in Mahler's huge Symphony No. 2, the ''Resurrection.'' His soloists are the soprano Heidi Grant Murphy and the contralto Nathalie Stutzmann, and for listeners who can't get enough, there is also an open rehearsal tomorrow morning. Surrounding Mr. Ozawa's Mahler are programs led by Donald Runnicles. Tonight Yo-Yo Ma is his soloist in concertos by Haydn and Osvaldo Golijov, on a program that begins with Janacek's ''Idyll'' and ends with Elgar's ''Enigma Variations.'' On Sunday afternoon Mr. Runnicles is joined by the pianist Lars Vogt in the Beethoven ''Emperor'' Concerto. The program also includes Mozart's Symphony No. 38 and a suite from Strauss's ''Rosenkavalier.'' On Sunday evening the well-trained students of the Tanglewood Music Center play Dvorak's ''Carnival'' Overture, Babbitt's ''From the Psalter,'' Faure's ''Pelleas et Melisande'' Suite, Sibelius's ''Luonnotar'' and Ravel's ''Daphnis and Chloe'' Suite No. 2. Stefan Asbury is the conductor, and Dawn Upshaw the soprano soloist. Boston Symphony: tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30, Sunday afternoon at 2:30. Mahler rehearsal: tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. Tanglewood Music Center Orchestra: Sunday at 8:30 p.m. Lenox, Mass., (888) 266-1200, tanglewood.org; tonight, $18 to $50, with $8.50 lawn tickets; sold out tomorrow night, except for lawn tickets at $17; rehearsal tomorrow morning, $17; Sunday afternoon, $18 to $50; Sunday evening, $11 to $36. (Kozinn)

Dance

* CENTRAL PARK SUMMERSTAGE 2006: LIMON DANCE COMPANY (Tonight) Lyrical and dramatic, dancing by the Limon company tends to stir the soul. This free 60th-anniversary program includes a performance by Raphael Boumaila of Daniel Nagrin's rarely seen ''Dance in the Sun,'' as well as works by Jose Limon, Jiri Kylian and Donald McKayle. At 8, Central Park SummerStage, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-1777, or summerstage.org. (Jennifer Dunning)

* CENTRAL PARK SUMMERSTAGE 2006: 'FROM MAMBO TO HIP HOP' (Monday) This sounds like the place to be for sheer fun. This free program includes a preview screening of ''From Mambo to Hip Hop,'' a PBS documentary that explores the rich cultural history of the South Bronx. Veteran hip-hop, salsa and mambo dancers will perform before the movie is shown. The film will be followed by a question-and-answer session with Henry Chalfant, the documentary's director; the mambo dancer Peanut; the hip-hop dancer and historian PopMaster Fabel; and others. 7 p.m., Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, Central Park, (212) 360-2777, or summerstage.org. (Dunning)

ENTRESUENO (Wednesday) This new flamenco production by Edwin Aparicio is formed around the states of mind before entering sleep and awakening. The dancers include Oscar Valero and La Genoveva. At 7:30 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, or symphonyspace.org; $25 to $40. (Dunning)

HOT! THE NYC CELEBRATION OF QUEER CULTURE: HENRY HILL AND KELLY BARTNIK (Tonight and tomorrow night) Friends and collaborators, Mr. Hill and Ms. Bartnik will perform solos and group pieces in a program endearingly entitled ''Believe the Hype.'' Well, why not, just this once? At 8, Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736, or dixonplace.org; $10 to $15. (Dunning)

* JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) The Trey McIntyre Project, a contemporary ballet company, will be in the larger Ted Shawn Theater through the weekend, followed there on Wednesday and Thursday (and next weekend) by Shen Wei Dance Arts. In the smaller Doris Duke Studio Theater, Armitage Gone! (Karole Armitage's new New York-based company) plays through the weekend, and moving in on Thursday through next weekend is MoveOpolis, the company formed by Richard Move, who made his name as a Martha Graham impersonator. McIntyre tonight and tomorrow night at 8 and tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m., $45; Shen Wei Wednesday and Thursday nights at 8, $50. Armitage tonight and tomorrow night at 8:15; tomorrow at 2:15 p.m.; and Sunday at 5 p.m.; $24. MoveOpolis on Thursday at 8:15 p.m., $24. Ten percent off all tickets for students, ages 65+ and children. Details: jacobspillow.org. Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, 358 George Carter Road, Becket, Mass., (413) 243-0745. (John Rockwell)

JPMORGAN CHASE LATINO CULTURAL FESTIVAL: PERU NEGRO (Sunday) The company celebrates black Peruvian culture in dance, playful multigenerational stage business and music performed on quijadas de buro (donkey jaw-bone rattles) and other exotic traditional instruments. At 3 and 7 p.m., Queens Theater in the Park, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, (718) 760-0064 or QueensTheatre.org; $30 in advance, $35 at the door. (Dunning)

LINCOLN CENTER OUT OF DOORS (Tonight through Aug. 27) O.K., so being outside in New York City in August feels as if you're in a soup bowl, but there's a bright side: free dance to be had all month at Lincoln Center. The action begins tomorrow with ''Playday,'' lessons and demonstrations involving African, Middle Eastern and Irish folk dance. Thursday's lineup looks particularly promising: first, ''We B*Girlz,'' hip-hop challenges among various female crews, and then a double bill, ''Double Trouble: Dancin' the Blues,'' with the sublime Reggie Wilson/Fist & Heel Performance Group and the Lula Washington Dance Theater of Los Angeles. Performances take place on stages erected throughout the Lincoln Center campus, from 62nd to 65th Streets, between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues. Complete schedule: (212) 546-2656, or lincolncenter.org. (Claudia La Rocco)

* PILOBOLUS (Tonight and tomorrow, and Monday through Thursday) The grandfather of the current crop of Nikolais-inspired, Cirque du Soleil-like acrobatic dance troupes with spectacular visual effects. A little mindless but enormously popular for people of all ages. Three programs alternate for the run, ending Aug. 12. Tonight, tomorrow and Monday through Thursday at 8 p.m., and tomorrow at 2 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, or joyce.org; $42. (Rockwell)

KANG SUN YOUNG DANCE COMPANY (Tuesday) Ms. Young is said to be the sole successor to Han Seong Jun, a pioneer in the preservation of traditional Korean dance. Her 60-member troupe of dancers and musicians will perform pieces from that repertory in a program called ''A Legacy in Tradition.'' 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, or www.kangsunyoungarts.org; $25 to $95.(Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

* BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'SYMPHONIC POEM: THE ART OF AMINAH BRENDA LYNN ROBINSON,' through Aug. 13. This prodigious show, by an artist born and still living in Columbus, Ohio, celebrates her heritage in paintings, drawings, sculpture, stitchery, leather work and less classifiable forms of expression. Besides its sheer visual wizardry, using materials like leaves, twigs, bark, buttons and castoff clothes, her art is compelling in that it ruminates on the history of black migration to and settlement in the United States in a garrulous, very personal way. One particularly intense work, based on the belief that Abubakari II, ruler of Mali, crossed the Atlantic nearly 200 years before Columbus to discover the Americas, links the past with the present and Africa with the beloved Columbus of Ms. Robinson's childhood. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 or brooklynmuseum.org. (Grace Glueck)

Dahesh Museum of Art: 'NAPOLEON ON THE NILE: SOLDIERS, ARTISTS AND THE REDISCOVERY OF EGYPT,' through Dec. 31. Napoleon's invasion of Egypt was a military disaster, but the squadron of scholars and scientists that went with him lay the foundation for Egyptology and Egyptomania, gave Orientalism a big boost and was commemorated by the 1,000 engravings of the 23-volume ''Description de l'Egypte.'' Examples of the book's prints form the backbone of this strange and sometimes piecemeal show, which includes Orientalist paintings and a cache of fascinating ephemera. 580 Madison Avenue, at 56th Street, (212) 759-0606 or daheshmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)

* Frick Collection : 'Jean-Etienne Liotard (1702-1789): Swiss MasteR,' through Sept. 17. Liotard is something of a specialty item now, but he was widely known in the Enlightenment Europe of his day. And even then he was seen as a maverick, a figure of contradictions. He was a stone-cold realist in an age of rococo frills. In a great age of oil painting, he favored pastel. He had ultrafancy sitters for his portraits, including Marie Antoinette. But his most vivid likenesses are of himself and his family. The Frick's perfectly proportioned sweetheart of a solo show is the artist's first in North America. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 or frick.org. (Holland Cotter)

SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'ZAHA HADID: THIRTY YEARS IN ARCHITECTURE,' through Oct. 25. This exhibition, Ms. Hadid's first major retrospective in the United States, gives New Yorkers a chance to see what they've been missing. The show, in the Guggenheim's rotunda, spirals through Ms. Hadid's career, from her early enchantment with Soviet Constructivism to the sensuous and fluid cityscapes of her more recent commissions. It illuminates her capacity for bridging different worlds: traditional perspective drawing and slick computer-generated imagery; the era of utopian manifestoes and the ambiguous values of the information age. (212) 423-3500 or guggenheim.org. (Nicolai Ouroussoff)

* INternational Center of Photography: 'On Air,' through Aug. 27. The South Korean artist Atta Kim's best-known body of work is a series called ''The Museum Project'' (1995-2002), for which he photographed his human subjects -- families, nude couples, maimed war veterans -- locked inside plexiglass exhibition cases like specimens on display. The series eventually took a religious turn, with models posing as Buddhist deities. The pictures here, in his first major American solo show, continue this spiritual trajectory. Filmed using long exposure times, figures, landscapes and religious icons have been turned into apparitions. People, art and museums may last for a while, Mr. Kim seems to say, but all things eventually melt away. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000 or icp.org. (Cotter)

* metropolitan museum of art: 'GIRODET: ROMANTIC REBEL,' through Aug. 27. Hugely famous in the early-19th century, Girodet dropped down the memory chute. His ''Ossian Receiving the Ghosts of French Heroes,'' painted for Napoleon, is one of the most deranged pictures in art history. It's so unhinged that it's almost lovable, which is otherwise the last word to come to mind for an artist who, in his uptight, smarty-pants mode, could be a bore. But give the show a shot. It's sometimes brilliant, and Girodet's strangeness and fairly repellent character make him at least fascinating to contemplate and heroic in his immoderation. History is full of shifty characters, antique visionaries, cusp figures and half-crazy oddball innovators, later overlooked because they're hard to pigeonhole. Their independent cast of mind is the truest expression of how civilization advances. (212) 535-7710 or metmuseum.org. (Michael Kimmelman)

* Met: 'RAPHAEL AT THE METROPOLITAN: THE COLONNA ALTARPIECE,' through Sept. 4 This exhilarating show reunites the central panel and lunette of Raphael's Colonna Altarpiece (owned by the Met) with all five panels of the predella. Additional works by Raphael, Perugino, Fra Bartolommeo and Leonardo place the work in context and sharpen the understanding of Raphael's budding genius. (212) 535-7710 or metmuseum.org. (Smith)

* Met: 'Treasures of Sacred Maya Kings,' through Sept. 10. ''Treasures of Sacred Maya Kings'' gets a huge gold A for truth in advertising. The treasures are plentiful, rare and splendid. A carved wood figure of a kneeling shaman, arms extended, time-raked face entranced, is simply one of the greatest sculptures in the museum. Many objects have only recently come to light in Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras. They add up to an exhibition as a think-piece essay on how a culture saw itself in the world. (212) 535-7710 or metmuseum.org. (Cotter)

Museum of Biblical Art: 'The Word on the Street: the photographs of Larry Racioppo,' through Aug. 20. Photographs documenting vernacular expressions of religious devotion in New York, including spray-painted murals, private shrines and tattoos. Museum of Biblical Art, 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street, (212) 408-1500 or mobia.org. (Ken Johnson)

* MUseum of modern art: 'ARTIST'S CHOICE: Herzog & DE MEURON, PERCEPTION RESTRAINED,' through Sept. 25. In an unusually accessible bit of institutional critique, the architects who failed to win the commission to design the new Museum of Modern Art bite the hand that didn't feed them. They create a kind of deprivation chamber with a black gallery, where excerpts from American movies play on video screens on the ceiling and 110 works of art and design are crammed into enormous niches that are all but sealed from view. Perverse and cerebral, it may be the best one-liner you'll encounter this summer. (212) 708-9400 or moma.org. (Smith)

MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'DADA,' through Sept. 11. This is pretty much Dada's official survey (an oxymoron), and it makes nearly all 450 or so objects in it look elegant. That hat rack looks awfully stylish now. It's good to be reacquainted with a generation of artists who had no market to speak of and for whom society's corruption and exhaustion seemed golden opportunities to make themselves useful. Cynical and traumatized, the Dadaists were tireless young optimists at heart. They discovered a world full of wonders, and we are, on the whole, their beneficiaries. (212) 708-9400 or moma.org. (Kimmelman)

NEUE Galerie: Gustav Klimt: Five Paintings From the Collection of Ferdinand and Adele Bloch-Bauer, , through Sept. 18. Klimt's 1907 gold portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer, lately acquired by the billionaire collector Ronald S. Lauder, reportedly for $135 million, is now aptly installed like a trophy head above the mantelpiece. She's half queen, half Vegas showgirl. A perfect New Yorker. She temporarily hangs with four other Klimts, including a second Adele, painted in 1912: a slender, sinuous Coke-bottle shaped figure, more chaste than carnal. A painting of a birch forest is an archetypal Klimt mix of uncanny naturalism and geometric abstraction. Two other landscapes, of an apple tree and an unfinished jigsaw-puzzle view of houses on the shore of the Attersee, raise the question: had Klimt not died at 55 in 1918, would he have ended up a pure abstractionist like Mondrian? 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200 or neuegalerie.org. (Kimmelman)

New York Botanical Garden: Chihuly at the New York Botanical Garden, through Oct. 29. Dale Chihuly, the world's most famous contemporary glass artist, has created ambitious installations of his large-scale, technically virtuosic and materially extravagant works inside the spectacular Haupt Conservatory and outside in reflecting pools and smaller gardens. New York Botanical Garden, Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700 or nybg.org. (Johnson)

* New-York Historical Society: Legacies: Contemporary Artists Reflect on Slavery, through Jan. 7. A large, powerful, subtle group show, the second of three exhibitions on American slavery organized by the New-York Historical Society, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400 or nyhistory.org. (Cotter)

New York Public Library: 'FRENCH BOOK ART/LIVRES D'ARTISTES: ARTISTS AND POETS IN DIALOGUE,' through Aug. 19. Organized with the Bibliotheque Litteraire Jacques Doucet in Paris, this lavish exhibition surveys some of the experimental ferment brought on by the combination of free verse, visionary publishers and the high rate of talent among French artists and poets, especially in the early years of the 20th century. Concentrating on books, but also including prints and drawings, it retells the tale of the French avant-garde on a relatively egalitarian playing field. New York Public Library, Fifth Avenue at 42nd Street, (212) 869-8089 or nypl.org. (Smith)

P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center: 'Into Me/Out of Me,' through Sept. 25. Often with repulsive immediacy and occasionally with wit and subtlety, works by more than 130 artists in this ambitious exhibition explore the body and all its possible experiences along the pleasure-pain continuum. P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084 or ps1.org. (Johnson)

* Rubin Museum of Art : 'What is it? HimalAyan Art' For a basic guide to the art of Tibet and Nepal, you will do no better than to take a slow walk through this new show, which, using an array of gorgeous objects, distills knotty visual and spiritual systems to a soothing but stimulating entry-level form. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000 or rmanyc.org. (Cotter)

* The Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Full House: Views of the Whitney's Collection at 75,' through Sept. 3. The Whitney celebrates a significant birthday this summer with an attic-to-basement display of hundreds of pieces of art from its permanent collection. There are terrific things, arranged mostly by loose theme rather than date. And as an ensemble, they deliver an impressionistic story, through art, of a staggeringly contradictory American 20th-century culture, diverse and narrow-souled, with a devotion to the idea of power so ingrained as to make conflict inevitable and chronic. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 or whitney.org. (Cotter)

Galleries: Uptown

* Sarah Sze: 'Corner Plot' The upper corner of an apartment building protrudes from the Doris C. Freedman Plaza's pavement as if the whole edifice had toppled and sunk into the ground. Through the window's of Ms. Sze's magical outdoor sculpture you can see a complicated interior that looks as if it were created by a mad architect. Doris C. Freedman Plaza, 60th Street and Fifth Avenue, (212) 980-4575, through Oct. 22. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

* A BROKEN ARM The title is a tribute to Duchamp. The works review various strategies of using found objects or images in photography, painting and sculpture. The seven artists include Gedi Sibony, Arnold Odermatt and Karen Kalimnik. All has been orchestrated by Mari Spirito, the gallery's director. 303 Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-1121, 303gallery.com, through Aug. 18. (Smith)

* DERECONSTRUCTION Matthew Higgs, director of the alternative space White Columns, has assembled a handsome show that in typical Higgs fashion brings together outsider, emerging, hip and formerly hip artists. Variations on collage and assemblage predominate without feeling stale. The larger point: deconstruction has had its day, and it is time to start putting things back together again. The putters range from A. R. Penck and Lucas Samaras to Carter and Alexandra Bircken. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9301, gladstonegallery.com, through Aug. 18. (Smith)

* J. Bennett Fitts: 'No Lifeguard on Duty' Symbolically resonant photographs of mostly derelict motel swimming pools by a young Californian. Julie Saul, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 627-2410, saulgallery.com, through Aug. 11. (Johnson)

* FOUNTAINS A summery theme is tweaked by energetic efforts. High points include Daniel Lefcourt's eye-popping photograph of studio tools, Sanford Bigger's video of a disco ball and Gibb Slife's television set, whose do-it-yourself antenna suggests spreading vines or brain waves. The low points seem to have been left out. D'Amelio Terras, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 352-9460, damelioterras.com, through Aug. 11. (Smith)

* 'A Four-Dimensional Being Writes Poetry on a Field with Sculptures' Organized by the sculptor Charles Ray, this beautiful, spare and mysterious exhibition presents sculptures by Alberto Giacometti, Mark di Suvero and the folk artist Edgar Tolson, and a giant photograph by Jeff Wall. Matthew Marks, 522 West 22nd Street, (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com, through Aug. 11. (Johnson)

* GALERIE DANIEL BUCHHOLZ AT METRO PICTURES The well-known Cologne art gallery presents a surprisingly sweeping view of current art that includes Americans and Europeans and, despite its Conceptual slant, an impressive range of mediums and sensibilities. That may be the point. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, metropicturesgallery.com, through Sept. 16. (Smith)

Michael Heizer Sculptures in concrete representing prehistoric hand tools much enlarged so that they resemble Modernist sculptures by a follower of Brancusi. PaceWildenstein, 545 West 22nd Street, (212) 421-3292 or pacewildenstein.com, through Sept. 23. (Johnson)

'Materiality' Inventive works made of all sorts of materials in this show include a stuffed leather-and-plywood tree by Carolyn Salas; a geometric landscape with a slowing-moving, wartlike kinetic element, covered in reflective Mylar, by Charlotte Becket; a neat display of more than 200 pieces of breakfast cereal by Tom Friedman; and a sumptuous stuffed object resembling a much-enlarged amoeba by Ernesto Neto. Kravets/Wehby, 521 West 21st Street, (212) 352-2238, kravetswehbygallery.com, through Aug. 25. (Johnson)

MEN This show of 10 paintings of men by 10 women, organized by the painter Ellen Altfest, covers a lot of stylistic ground and includes an only partly tongue-in-cheek denunciation from the lesbian collective Redykeulous. Realism makes the strongest impression. I-20, 557 West 23rd Street, (212) 645-1100, I-20.com, through Aug. 18. (Smith)

* Howardena Pindell: 'In My Lifetime' Thirty years ago, Howardena Pindell was well known for meditative, process-based abstract work, though her art has always had two aspects. In the 1970's and 80's it assumed and maintained an overtly political direction in large-scale pieces that combined abstraction, words and figures to deal with social and political issues, from AIDS and homelessness to the present war in Iraq. Both types are in this informal gallery retrospective, which makes clear how thoroughly they are based on -- emerge from, are fueled and inflected by -- the individual experiences and memories of the artist herself. G. R. N'Namdi Gallery, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 316, (212) 929-6645, grnnamdi.com, through Aug. 31. (Cotter)

A RABBIT AS KING OF THE GHOSTS With a title lifted from Wallace Stevens, this elegant show posits photography as the leading ghost in the machine of contemporary art and draws visually telling analogies from 140 years of the medium's life span. It has been organized by the photographers Justine Kurland and Dan Torop. Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 West 26th Street, (212) 744-7400, miandn.com, through Aug. 11. (Smith)

TWO FRIENDS AND SO ON Selected by asking one artist to invite another, who asked another, until a group of 30 had accrued, this show winds from Conceptual-based work through abstract painting and sculpture, and back again, presenting a random cross-section of the art world and displaying a network of style-based alliances. It is a quite a ride. Andrew Kreps Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 741-8849, andrewkreps.com, through Aug. 12. (Smith)

'WAR ON 45/MY MIRRORS ARE PAINTED BLACK (FOR YOU)' The latest word from the boys in black is a show of six artists organized by the head boy, Banks Violette. The stark glamour of it cannot be denied, but it looks too much like graphic design. Bortolami Dayan, 510 West 25th Street, (212) 727-2050, bortolamidayan.com, through Sept. 2. (Smith)

Other Galleries

'Gifts Go in One Direction' With art selling so briskly these days, isn't it time for the art world to hand out some gift bags, some freebies? After all, artists, as members of an intensively networked and mutually supportive community, have been giving one another gifts. That is the subject of this charming summer show, which takes the form of a round-robin of generosity, with artists on both the giving and receiving ends. Apexart, 291 Church Street, near Walker Street, TriBeCa, (212) 431-5270, through Aug. 12. (Cotter)

Last Chance

* Rudy Burckhardt: 'New York Paintings' Known as a photographer and filmmaker, Mr. Burckhardt (1914-1999) also painted all through his career. His Manhattan cityscapes, mostly rooftop views of other buildings, have a fresh, almost naive immediacy and a sophisticated way with relations between surface and depth and complexity and simplicity. Tibor de Nagy, 724 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 262-5050 or tibordenagy.com; closes today. (Johnson)

CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A theater entry in the Listings pages of Weekend yesterday for ''Indian Blood,'' which is in previews at Primary Stages, misstated the opening date. It will open on Wednesday, not Thursday.
An art entry in the Listings pages of Weekend on Aug. 4 and Aug. 11 for the group exhibition ''A Broken Arm'' at the 303 Gallery in Chelsea misspelled the surname of an artist. She is Karen Kilimnik, not Kalimnik.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ART -- Using long exposure times, Atta Kim turns objects into apparitions. At right, ''On-Air Project, Sacheonwangsang, 8 Buddhas,'' from his show at the International Center of Photography. Page 22. (Photo by Atta Kim)
MUSIC -- Yo-Yo Ma, left, is the soloist at Tanglewood tonight in concertos by Haydn and Osvaldo Golijov, under the direction of Donald Runnicles. Page 22. (Photo by Richard Termine for The New York Times)
 FILM -- A dysfunctional family takes to the road in the bittersweet comedy ''Little Miss Sunshine,'' below. Page 20. (Photo by Eric Lee/Fox Searchlight Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%); WRITERS (65%); THEATER (58%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (59%)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



52 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Everybody Into the Melting Pot: Turning Sweet 15 in Los Angeles's Immigrant Stew

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
''Quinceanera,'' a portrait of a Mexican-American family in Los Angeles, is as smart and warmhearted an exploration of an upwardly mobile immigrant culture as American independent cinema has produced. Set in Echo Park, a working-class Latino neighborhood in the early throes of gentrification, it has a wonderfully organic feel for the fluid interaction of cultures and generations in the Southern California melting pot. 
 Without pinning smile buttons onto its characters, the film, a prize winner at this year's Sundance festival, takes a benign look at the conflicts and crises of three generations of a resilient family whose principal breadwinner, Ernesto (Jesus Castanos-Chima), operates a storefront church. Illegal immigration is not an issue here, and the film optimistically assumes that newcomers to the country carry with them a surge of vitality. 
The central character, Magdalena (Emily Rios), Ernesto's ebullient 14-year-old daughter, is anticipating her Quinceanera, the traditional ceremony that celebrates a girl's official passage into womanhood at 15. The movie opens with this jubilant rite of passage for her cousin Eileen (Alicia Sixtos), who is decked out like a princess. Magdalena has unrealistically high expectations for her own Quinceanera. To her parents' chagrin, she dreams of being transported to the event with her entourage in a Hummer limousine. In reality, Magdalena will have to wear a hand-me-down: her cousin's dress, refitted. 
 Magdalena's future is thrown into disarray when she suddenly finds herself pregnant by her puppyish boyfriend, Herman (J. R. Cruz), and her father throws her out of the house in a rage. (Her pregnancy comes as a complete surprise because it is a rare instance of a girl's conceiving while remaining technically intact during intense petting.) But when Magdalena insists that she is still a virgin, her father refuses to believe her. Herman's mother, fiercely ambitious for her college-bound son, won't listen to her story and keeps him out of her reach. 
 Magdalena goes to live with her great-uncle Tomas (Chalo Gonzalez), who rents the back house on the property of Gary (David W. Ross) and James (Jason L. Wood), a gay white yuppie couple on the forefront of the neighborhood's imminent real estate boom. Eileen's brother Carlos (Jesse Garcia) is already staying with Tomas, having been ousted from home by his father, who caught him cruising a gay Web site. 
 Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland, the film's writing and directing team, describe their movie in a directors' statement as a reinvention of British kitchen-sink realism from the late 1950's and early 60's. ''A Taste of Honey,'' Tony Richardson's 1961 film adaptation of Shelagh Delaney's play about a plain, lonely 17-year-old girl who is impregnated by a black sailor, is a particular source of inspiration. In that film, forced to fend for herself when her slatternly mother remarries, the girl sets up housekeeping with a gay co-worker, who becomes the child's surrogate father. 
 The connection that develops between Magdalena and Carlos is similar, although not nearly as strong. Both are watched over by the kindly, nonjudgmental Tomas, a popular neighborhood character in his 80's, who still ekes out a living as a street vendor of champurrado (a Mexican hot drink). 
 The spirit of ''Quinceanera,'' however, is quite different from that of its black-and-white forerunner. ''A Taste of Honey'' was set in the sooty gloom of the northern England industrial port city of Manchester, while Echo Park is a robust, colorful neighborhood on the upswing. Magdalena and her teenage friends are already living the American dream but on a limited budget, and their expectations for a brighter future are high. 
 The film's most pointed scenes deal with Carlos's work problems at a car wash and his emerging sexuality when he becomes the plaything of Tomas's landlords. Gary and James are a typical upscale gay couple with a semi-open relationship whose rules allow them to seduce Carlos together but forbid their seeing him individually. To them, Carlos with his tattoos and slightly thuggish aura is a sexy trophy to show off to their friends. 
 When Gary, who works in television but is temporarily unemployed, breaks the rules to have afternoon trysts with Carlos, things get messy, and Carlos foolishly begins entertaining fantasies of working in television himself. 
 The exiled children and their caretaker face a final blow when Gary and James sell their cramped little rental, and they have to find new quarters. To its credit, ''Quinceanera'' doesn't offer any magic solutions. But it believes in its characters enough to leave you feeling that they will not only survive but also flourish.
 The movie is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has sexual situations and some strong language.

Quinceanera
Opens today in New York and Los Angeles.

Written and directed by Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland; director of photography, Eric Steelberg; edited by Robin Katz and Clay Zimmerman; music by Micko and Victor Bock; production designers, Denise Hudson and Jonah Markowitz; produced by Anne Clements; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 90 minutes.

WITH: Emily Rios (Magdalena), Jesus Castanos-Chima (Ernesto), Jesse Garcia (Carlos), Alicia Sixtos (Eileen), J. R. Cruz (Herman), Chalo Gonzalez (Tio Tomas), David W. Ross (Gary) and Jason L. Wood (James).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Emily Rios plays Magdalena, who turns 15 and finds herself pregnant. (Photo by Sony Pictures Classics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); FESTIVALS (75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%) 

PERSON: Stephen Holden; Richard Glatzer; Wash Westmoreland; Emily Rios

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



53 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CHEAP SEATS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: Rock My Budget

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
IT was one of the more painful financial decisions I have made in a while, up there with renewing the lease and choosing a cellphone: Should I buy that $5.50 hot dog?
 I was starving. I was at a concert at Jones Beach and had not eaten in about six hours and hadn't had the courage to sneak a snack past the guards. It was getting dark, and that hot dog, leathery and dry as it looked, was hard to resist.
But it was $5.50.
 I have readily paid $7 for a beer and $14 for a hamburger in New York, but this was different. I was on a mission, and though I could stand some digestive regret over the hot dog, it would be more difficult to suffer the knowledge that I had failed as a skinflint. 
 Culture is not cheap, particularly in New York, where the average Broadway ticket price is about $75, and dinner and a movie can mean $100 or more. Music lovers don't have it any easier. The summer touring season, when the big outdoor theaters open up, is full of temptations, and $125 tickets are not uncommon.
 Back in my eagle's-nest seat high above Nikon at Jones Beach Theater -- the latest awkward renaming of the seaside amphitheater on Long Island that has been a summer fixture in one form or another since the 1930's -- Fiona Apple sounded soulful but angry, and I, now $5.50 poorer, was tallying my expenses.
 I had a mandate that was part dare and part experiment in penny-pinching logistics: to find the most inexpensive way to attend a concert at Jones Beach, operating completely by the book. That meant no journalistic privilege, no Craigslist scavenging and certainly no fence climbing. When all expenses for a typical show are counted -- trains, buses, hot dogs and, oh yes, tickets -- how bad is the damage and how can it be minimized?
 For my first try I chose Ms. Apple's concert, on a drizzly Saturday that turned miraculously clear just as the show began. Knowing I could avoid Ticketmaster's fees by buying my ticket at the box office, I headed straight to Jones Beach on the Long Island Rail Road, paying $13.50 for an off-peak round-trip ticket to Freeport, then taking a 15-minute connecting bus. The whole trip from Penn Station takes about 90 minutes.
 The lowest price listed for the concert was $20, but I was surprised that it actually cost $30: $5 was added as a ''facilities charge'' and another $5 because I was buying the ticket on the day of the show. I don't remember seeing those restrictions advertised, I told the ticket agent. She shrugged. 
 My $30 bought me seat NN18 in Section 16, extreme stage right and three-quarters of the way up the middle level. There were still a few sprinkles, so most members of the early crowd had moved, baseball stadium style, under the overhang of the upper level. I joined them. Sometime in the middle of the opening act, Damien Rice, my stomach began its campaign. 
 The amphitheater at Jones Beach is an unusual space, jutting out into a placid little bay with the ocean visible less than a mile away. Unlike most outdoor theaters, it does not have a lawn, though years of expansion have added an upper ''mezzanine'' level; its capacity is just under 14,000. 
 The wind can sometimes have its way with the acoustics, but in my experience Jones Beach usually has excellent sound, and I am not alone in that opinion. One particular fan is Pete Townshend of the Who, which is to play there on Sept. 13.
 Ms. Apple played beautifully, though I was surprised to see what a jerkily eccentric dancer she is. As she sang the falsetto fillips in ''Extraordinary Machine,'' I gathered my receipts. Total expenditure: $51. Not terrible, but no bargain either. 
 I resolved to find a more economical way, but I knew it would not be easy. Summer is when the concert industry makes most of its money, and prices have been rising steadily. The average ticket for one of the Top 100 tours last year cost $56.88, more than double the price a decade before, according to Pollstar, the industry trade magazine. And despite record revenues -- last year touring was a $3.1 billion business in the United States -- fewer tickets are being sold. 
 One benefit of this disparity is that during the summer promoters sometimes offer discounts to fill empty seats. Last week Live Nation, which operates Jones Beach and the PNC Bank Arts Center in Holmdel, N.J., had a one-day sale, offering $10 mezzanine seats (lawn tickets at PNC) for 10 concerts. One was Chicago and Huey Lewis and the News, which looked irresistibly summery to me. 
 There is no way to buy a ticket for Jones Beach or PNC without paying some kind of fee. Ticketmaster charges apply by phone or online, and both theaters charge a facilities fee at the door. 
 I tried but failed to get a friend -- or colleague, or friend's colleague's ex, anybody -- to go out to the box office, so I grudgingly bought one ticket online for $18. That was an 80 percent markup over face value, but still not bad for a ticket whose regular price, including Ticketmaster fees, was $50.50.
 (Live Nation does not have any more sales planned for Jones Beach or PNC, but these things have a way of popping up unexpectedly.)
 The only stratagem I could see for keeping transportation costs down was to take a subway to the L.I.R.R. station in Jamaica, Queens, which would cost time but save a few bucks. And as for sustenance, seeing how easy it was to get a water bottle past the guards the last time, I risked half a roast beef sandwich and a candy bar. 
 I got the E train at 5:50 last Friday afternoon, heading for Jamaica. This detour shaved $5 off the full fare from Penn Station and by my estimation added about a half-hour to the trip. The money saved, however, was just not worth the hassle, particularly on the late-night subway ride home, whose many delays and reroutings were too grievous to repeat. 
 Huey Lewis and the News were just beginning to play ''I Want a New Drug'' when I arrived at 7:48. Flushed with fond memories of MTV circa 1983, I bounded up the many, many stairs and found my spot. 
 I was in seat L1 in Section 21, stage left in the uppermost section of the mezzanine. I had never sat quite so high there before, and I was stunned by the view: the full expanse of sandy beach was clearly visible, as were waves calmly crashing on it. By 8:20 or so the setting sun painted the whole sky a rich, luminous pink.
 Onstage Mr. Lewis strutted in front of a semicircle of eight musicians, and though I could not see his face, I joined the crowd in singing along to ''Doing It All for My Baby'' and ''The Power of Love.'' There was nothing but catchy melodies and good-time lyrics: this music was made for big, open celebrations.
 The sky was mostly dark and the seats mostly filled by 8:45, when I decided to try for a better view of the main attraction, Chicago. Years of concertgoing have taught me a few tricks about sneaking into the pricier seats. I tried my best at every entrance to the front orchestra sections, but the ushers there were pros; the rear orchestra was a piece of cake, though, and I found myself in seat R11 of Section G, close enough to see the expressions on the musicians' faces.
 Of the eight players onstage, only four were original members, which was emphasized by the slideshow of hairy 1970's photographs of the band that played on a screen throughout the concert. On both sides of me were middle-age couples and their teenage children, who patiently slurped their sodas as their parents nodded and swayed. 
 I longed for the bonhomie of the mezzanine and for the snappy bar-band pop of Huey Lewis. As I scarfed down my candy bar and spaced out to some long Chicago ballad, I remembered a good feeling from Mr. Lewis's set. Fresh from a cappella treatments of two Major Lance classics, he called out for a few members of Chicago to join him. With at least 10 musicians behind him, Mr. Lewis held out his hands to the crowd and said, ''Now how much would you pay?''
 In my case, it was $29, which felt just about right.

The Bottom Line
 For Fiona Apple and Damien Rice on July 22, I spent $30 for a $20 ticket at the Jones Beach box office: $5 was added as a facilities charge and $5 for buying the ticket at the door. Both fees are covered in the theater's fine print but are not always mentioned in advertisements and online. (The Web site for Nikon at Jones Beach Theater, nikonjonesbeach.com, says the box-office service charge is $3.50, but that is out of date.)
 Transportation cost was $13.50 for a round-trip ticket to Freeport on the Long Island Rail Road (the tickets were off-peak because the show was on a Saturday), and $2 for the M.T.A. bus that connects to the theater; I realized too late -- after my first swipe of a regular MetroCard -- that the bus accepts unlimited-ride MetroCards. 
 My frankfurter indulgence cost $5.50. The bun, at least, tasted fresh.
 Total: $51.
 For Chicago and Huey Lewis and the News last Friday, I bought my ticket on July 25, ''$10 ticket day.'' My $10 upper-deck seat cost $18 through Ticketmaster.
 I took the E train to the Sutphin Boulevard-Archer Avenue-Kennedy Airport station in Jamaica, Queens, to connect to the L.I.R.R. That detour cost $11, which was a $5 savings over a direct L.I.R.R. train to Freeport. It wasn't worth it.
 I used my unlimited-ride MetroCard on the bus and avoided the concession stand.
 Total: $29. BEN SISARIO

This article begins a new feature that will examine how to attend performances and other cultural events in and around New York City as economically as possible.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Concertgoers enjoying Chicago and Huey Lewis and the News. (Photo by Alex di Suvero for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Fiona Apple and Huey Lewis and the News performing at Jones Beach. (Photo by Alex di Suvero for The New York Times)
(Photo by Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)
 The fans in the upper reaches enjoy the show, as well as the view of sea, sand and sky, at Nikon at Jones Beach Theater. (Photo by Alex di Suvero for The New York Times)(pg. E24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (89%); TICKET SALES (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); TICKET AGENCIES (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MUSIC (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); FILM (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); TRAINS (67%); THEATER (53%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (50%) Music; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (56%); CRAIGSLIST INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Jones Beach Marine Theater

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Ben Sisario

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



54 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2690 words

HEADLINE: In Georgia, Newest Immigrants Unsettle an Old Sense of Place

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: PEARSON, Ga. 

 BODY:
For generations, people here have savored the predictable cadences of small-town living. They knew their neighbors and their neighbors' neighbors, the sweet sound of Sunday church mornings and the rumble of tractors tilling the rich soil.
 And they knew that most outsiders would drive right through this blue-collar community of tidy bungalows and mobile homes, without stopping or settling, on their way to bigger, busier places.
 Then Mexican immigrants started streaming in. Lured in the 1990's by abundant agricultural work and new manufacturing jobs, the newcomers landed in a town with one traffic light, no tortillas in the supermarket and residents who stared openly at foreigners in a county that saw its last wave of immigrants in the 1850's.
 Today, hundreds of Mexican immigrants, both illegal and legal, work in factories, fields and stores; study in public schools; and live in neighborhoods that were once mostly white or black. This year, as many longtime residents anguished over the metamorphosis of their town, Serafico Jaimes opened a Spanish-language video store right off Main Street and proudly hung a Mexican flag alongside his American flag in the storefront window. 
 ''This is our town now, too,'' Mr. Jaimes said.
 His town sits in Atkinson County, Ga., population 8,030 and a cauldron of demographic change. Over the past decade, hundreds of thousands of immigrants, mostly from Mexico, have poured into the South, bypassing traditional settlement states like New York, California and Florida in favor of far-flung towns with thriving industries. 
 The surge of newcomers has helped drive the fierce debate in Congress over immigration as well as the budding activism that burst into view this spring when millions of people took to the streets to demand rights for immigrants. 
 The simmering tensions between Americans and new arrivals have played out here, too, far from the national spotlight. A visit to Atkinson County offers an intimate glimpse at how immigration is rapidly transforming day-to-day life in some small Southern towns. 
 In 1990, Hispanics accounted for 3 percent of the residents in Atkinson County, census data show. By 2004, Hispanics had eclipsed blacks and become the largest minority, with 21 percent of the population. County officials, who say illegal immigrants have been undercounted, believe Mexican immigrants and their children may actually make up a third of residents. (Whites and blacks now account for about 60 percent and 19 percent of the population.)
 The sudden shift is upending traditional Southern notions of race and class, leaving many whites and blacks grappling with unexpected feelings of dislocation, loss and anger as they adjust to their community's evolving ethnic identity. 
 Elton Corbitt, a white businessman whose family has lived here since the 1800's, said immigration threatened everything that matters -- the quality of schools, health facilities, neighborhoods, even the serene rhythms of small-town life. And he fears that white Southerners here may ultimately become outnumbered or irrelevant. 
 ''The way the Mexicans have children, they're going to have a majority here soon,'' Mr. Corbitt, 76, said.
 ''I have children and grandchildren,'' he said. ''They're going to become second-class citizens. And we're going to be a third world country here if we don't do something about it.''
 Many immigrants, meanwhile, wrestle with feelings of both pride and alienation as they deepen their roots in a town that remains ambivalent about their presence. 
 Olga Contreras-Martinez was 12 when she entered the United States illegally with her family and picked fruits and vegetables in Florida and Georgia until settling here in 1993. Now a college graduate and an American citizen, Ms. Contreras-Martinez feels deeply rooted here.
 Yet she says she has never quite fit in, even as she slides seamlessly between English and Spanish, relishes both cheese grits and frijoles and proudly votes in local elections.
 She still bursts into tears when she remembers how three white men challenged the citizenship of the county's Hispanic voters during a race for county commission in 2004, accusing one candidate of registering Mexicans who were ineligible to vote. Mexican-Americans were ultimately allowed to go to the polls, but the humiliation lingers. 
 ''Because of my color, my last name, people always question me,'' said Ms. Contreras-Martinez, 31, whose parents, uncles and grandfather all moved to Atkinson County from Mexico.
 ''I call it home, but I know I'm not welcome in my own home,'' she said. ''Maybe that feeling of home will be something that will always be missing for me.''
 From 1990 to 2005, the number of Hispanics living legally or illegally in Southern states quadrupled, jumping to 2.4 million from 562,663, according to an analysis of census data conducted by the sociology department of Queens College of the City University of New York. More immigrants are arriving in the United States now than when crowded ships carried millions of Europeans into New York in the early 1900's.
 ''We really haven't had this sort of rapid demographic change in 100 years,'' said Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group based in Washington. 
 No one knows how many illegal immigrants are living in Georgia. But Mr. Passel estimates there are 350,000 to 450,000, up from about 35,000 in 1990.

Creating New Lines
 It is a profound change for this insular community in southern Georgia, just northeast of Valdosta, where strangers have traditionally come from neighboring counties, not foreign countries, and where memories of the last flood of immigrants have long since faded.
 In the late 1850's, hundreds of Irish immigrants moved to this area, drawn by the promise of work on a railroad project that ultimately failed. Penniless and stranded, many workers settled here and became farmers, according to archival records from the Roman Catholic Church, which ministered to the laborers.
 The Mexicans who arrived more than a century later found a small, sleepy place where rocking chairs sit on front porches and roses bloom alongside rundown trailers. Many families struggle to make ends meet. In 2000, 23 percent of residents lived below the poverty line -- compared with 13 percent nationally that year -- and mobile homes made up 44 percent of the housing stock, census data show.
 Before significant numbers of immigrants arrived, neighborhoods were largely divided along racial lines. And with population growth largely stagnant, commercial farmers who raised squash, cucumbers and tobacco, and new businesses manufacturing industrial fabrics, mobile homes and fiberboard, were eager for new labor.
 Migrant farm workers, who trickled in in the late 1980's, spread the word, telling relatives that Atkinson County had good jobs, good schools, open space and a better quality of life than many crowded, crime-ridden communities in border states. 
 Mr. Jaimes, the video store owner, who is 43, arrived in 1991 to pick peppers and cut tobacco. Jose Ponce came with his family in 1995, even as he worried about how Mexicans would fare in the American South. 
 ''I had told myself, 'Never will I live in that state,' '' recalled Mr. Ponce, who saw a documentary about Georgia's segregation era while he was still in Mexico.
 ''But the schools were good,'' said Mr. Ponce, 54, who promotes homeopathic medicines for a Mexican company and is raising three children here. ''There was work wherever you looked. In terms of security for the family, it was beautiful.''
 Today, Harvey's, Pearson's lone supermarket, dedicates three aisles to mole, tortillas, cilantro and other items directed at Hispanics, who now make up 40 percent to 50 percent of the store's customers, said Rick Merritt, the manager.
 Down the road at Guthrie Motors, a used-car dealership, 60 percent of the customers are Hispanic. At the local barbershop, where Arthur Aubrey Morgan has clipped hair since 1945, a third of the patrons hail from Mexico.
 A karate school caters to the children of Mexican workers who have prospered enough to pay for classes. This spring, a Catholic church in a neighboring county opened a new building to accommodate worshipers at its Spanish-language Mass, which draws parishioners from Atkinson County.
 And a half-dozen Hispanic-owned businesses have opened, including a bakery and several small grocery stores.
 Pearson, which now has about 1,900 residents, was losing population before the Mexicans arrived. Tommy Guthrie, co-owner of Guthrie Motors, said the new arrivals had helped his business and others to thrive. Several of his Mexican-born customers, Mr. Guthrie added, have moved beyond his dealership because they can now buy new cars. 
 Immigrants have yet to play a significant role in politics -- there are no Hispanic elected officials and only about 100 Hispanic registered voters -- but many believe that will change as the American-born children of new arrivals come of age.
 ''I tell you something -- they're not staying down,'' said Mr. Guthrie, who is white. ''They're moving up.''
 But around the corner, at the county commission office, officials are counting the costs, not the benefits, of immigration to Atkinson County.
 County Commissioner Edwin Davis Sr. serves as the informal leader of county efforts to stem the tide of illegal immigration. He sees the negative consequences everywhere -- in the shabby mobile homes in some Hispanic enclaves, the Spanish-language graffiti splashed on the shopping plaza and the Hispanic mothers and toddlers crowding into the county's health clinic.
 ''They're coming here to have babies as quick as they can,'' said Mr. Davis, who emphasized that he opposed illegal arrivals, not legal immigration. ''And we're paying for all of those babies.''

Rising Expenses
 Mr. Davis acknowledged that homeowners had not yet felt the impact of illegal immigration in the form of higher property taxes, though he said that might be coming. 
 And police officials here disagree about whether crime has increased as immigration has surged. Pearson's police chief says that it has not, the county sheriff says it has, though both say that illegal immigrants driving without licenses have become a growing problem and worry that gangs may infiltrate Hispanic neighborhoods.
 But there is no doubt that the local clinic and schools have been hit with rising costs as immigrants and their children have turned to the county for services.
 The public school population, which was 7 percent Hispanic in 1995, was nearly 30 percent Hispanic this year. State spending for teaching English to speakers of other languages here soared to $102,002 from $18,296 during that time. And the clinic has hired two Spanish-speaking interpreters since 1991. 
 Poor patients, including illegal immigrants, receive care subsidized by the state. And many residents complain about having to wait for flu shots behind Spanish-speaking immigrants. 
 ''They done took over the population,'' said Jimmy Roberts Jr., a black county commissioner, who said his constituents complained about immigrants receiving subsidized services. ''I don't think it's right.''
 This spring, the county approved a zoning regulation prohibiting anyone from bringing in trailers older than 20 years, a measure that some believe will raise rents and make it harder for poor Hispanics to live here. Mr. Davis and Mr. Roberts say the measure will protect immigrants from being forced into substandard housing.
 Mr. Davis also supported the citizens who challenged Hispanic voters in the contested county commission race in 2004. The state attorney general is expected to hold a hearing soon to evaluate whether immigrants were improperly registered as voters in that race. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Corbitt, the white businessman and property owner whose family has lived here since the 1800's, proudly declares that he refuses to rent any of his buildings to Hispanic businessmen. 
 And when his church, First Baptist, considered allowing a Hispanic congregation to hold prayer meetings there, Mr. Corbitt led the opposition. ''They're bleeding hearts,'' he said of the church members who voted him down.
 Even whites who interact more frequently with the newcomers say they sometimes feel uneasy. Tasha Davis helps run the 4H Club and adores the Hispanic students who giggle and chatter at her desk.
 But Mrs. Davis, who is not related to Edwin Davis, said the immigrants had begun to erode the cohesiveness of the community. ''Before they come, everybody knew everybody,'' she said. ''Now you don't know who is living in the trailer next to you or the second trailer from you.''

Reaching Across the Divide
 Fernando Amador Trejo, 37, fumes at such talk. Mr. Amador came here as a migrant worker 12 years ago and now owns two grocery stores, one in Pearson and the other in a neighboring county. 
 Yet, he says, he has been stopped by the police without good reason and treated with indifference or hostility by whites here. Mr. Amador has never been invited to join the county's Chamber of Commerce, he said. And the white businessmen and workers who work near him in the town's only shopping plaza have never formally introduced themselves.
 ''They call me, 'the Mexican,' '' Mr. Amador said bitterly. ''I am Mexican. But I have a name, too.''
 But as they mingle in stores, neighborhoods and on factory floors, some Southerners and immigrants are trying to reach across the divide.
 The Chamber of Commerce, for instance, is now considering recruiting immigrant business owners. On one recent afternoon, Mark von Waldner, the chamber chairman, came into Mr. Jaimes' new video store for the first time and shook his hand. 
 ''Patron!'' he called out, trying his fledgling Spanish. 
 On a local Spanish-language radio program, Mr. Ponce recently challenged his fellow immigrants to do more to connect to native-born whites and blacks. ''How many of us have been here for 10 years and still don't speak English?'' asked Mr. Ponce, who makes a point of greeting everyone he meets. ''That has got to change.''
 And late last year at Atkinson County High School, where students say whites, blacks and Hispanics still socialize in largely separate worlds, Sara Silva, 16, and Kinnon Holt, 17, decided to go on a date. 
 Kinnon, who is white, and Sara, the American-born daughter of Mexican immigrants, have been together for eight months now. He has sampled his first empanada and she has tasted her first Hot Pocket, which she gleefully dubbed ''an American burrito.''
 ''That's my dream, getting married, having kids, having my own little shop here, having a farm,'' said Sara, who hopes to open a beauty salon. ''This town is pretty much my life.''
 Atkinson County is Ms. Contreras-Martinez's life, too. She lives comfortably among white and Hispanic neighbors and has worked in so many county jobs -- once teaching Spanish to county workers -- that many white government employees greet her by name.
 But the memory of the 2004 election still burns, as do the slights from whites who speak disparagingly of Hispanics in her presence, assuming she cannot speak English. 
 Sometimes, she says she feels as if she does not belong anywhere at all, not in Georgia and not in Mexico.
 ''You're not from here; you're not from there,'' said Ms. Contreras-Martinez, who coordinates a high school program for migrant workers. Yet when her husband gently suggests that they move to Edcouch, Tex., the mostly Hispanic city where he grew up, she always resists. 
 She has a baby boy now, the first generation of her family to be born in the county. She dreams of watching him run in the wide open spaces of this little town that she has grown to love, despite everything. 
 ''I'm a Latina Grits -- a Latina girl raised in the South,'' Ms. Contreras-Martinez said. ''So I'm still here.''

The Latino South
 This is the first article in an occasional series looking at aspects of Hispanic life in the South. Other articles will deal with relations between blacks and Latinos as well as economic and social issues.


GRAPHIC: Photos: OLGA CONTRERAS-MARTINEZ -- Coordinator of a high school program for migrant workers
SARA SILVA -- American-born daughter of Mexican immigrants
EDWIN DAVIS SR. -- County commissioner
SERAFICO JAIMES -- Owner of a Spanish-language video store (Photographs by Oscar Sosa for The New York Times)(pg. A15)Chart/Map: ''Tracking Growth''Percentage point increase in the number of Hispanics in each county, from 1990HIGHEST INCREASEClark County, Idaho +32 pct. pts.1990: 7%2005: 39%Atkinson County, Ga. +19 pct. pts.1990: 2%2005: 21%BIGGEST DECREASECostilla County, Colo. -14 pct. pts.1990: 77%2005: 63%Map of the United States highlighting number of Hispanics in each county.(Sources by Queens College Department of Sociology
 Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); COUNTIES (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); CENSUS (68%); RETAILERS (68%); FARM LABOR (56%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (55%) 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: Rachel L Swarns

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Southern States (US); Mexico; Pearson (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



55 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Time For Plan B

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
It is now obvious that we are not midwifing democracy in Iraq. We are baby-sitting a civil war.
 When our top commander in Iraq, Gen. John Abizaid, tells a Senate Committee, as he did yesterday, that ''the sectarian violence is probably as bad as I've seen it,'' it means that three years of efforts to democratize Iraq are not working. That means ''staying the course'' is pointless, and it's time to start thinking about Plan B -- how we might disengage with the least damage possible.
It seemed to me over the last three years that, even with all the Bush team's missteps, we had to give our Iraqi partners a chance to produce a transitional government, then write a constitution, then hold an election and then, finally, put together their first elected cabinet. But now they have done all of that -- and the situation has only worsened. 
 The Sunni jihadists and Baathists are as dedicated as ever to making this U.S.-Iraqi democracy initiative fail. That, and the runaway sectarian violence resulting from having too few U.S. troops and allowing a militia culture to become embedded, have made Iraq a lawless mess. 
 Yes, I believe it was and remains hugely important to try to partner with Iraqis to create one good example in the heart of the Arab world of a decent, progressive state, where the politics of fear and tribalism do not reign -- the politics that has produced all the pathologies of unemployment, religious intolerance and repression that make the Middle East so dangerous to itself and others. 
 But the administration now has to admit what anyone -- including myself -- who believed in the importance of getting Iraq right has to admit: Whether for Bush reasons or Arab reasons, it is not happening, and we can't throw more good lives after good lives.
 Since the Bush team never gave us a Plan A for Iraq, it at least owes us a Plan B. It's not easy. Here are my first thoughts about a Plan B and some of the implications.
 I think we need to try a last-ditch Bosnia-like peace conference that would bring together all of Iraq's factions and neighbors. Just as Bosnia could be solved only by an international peace force and the Dayton conference -- involving Russia, Europe and the U.S., the powers most affected by Bosnia's implosion -- the civil war in Iraq can be quelled only by a coalition of those most affected by Iraq's implosion: the U.S., Russia, Europe, Japan, India, China, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Iran, Syria and Jordan. As in Bosnia, any solution will have to be some form of federalism, a division of oil wealth and policing by an international force, where needed. 
 For such a conference to come about, though, the U.S. would probably need to declare its intention to leave. Iraqis, other Arabs, Europeans and Chinese will get serious about helping to salvage Iraq only if they believe we are leaving and it will damage their interests.
 What would be the consequences of leaving without such a last-ditch peace effort, or if it just fails? Iraq could erupt into a much wider civil war, drawing in its neighbors. Or, Iraqis might stare into this abyss and actually come to terms with each other on their own. Our presence may be part of the problem. It's hard to know.
 If Iraq opts for all-out civil war, its two million barrels a day will be off the market and oil could go above $100 a barrel. (That would, however, spur more investment in alternative fuels that could one day make us independent of this volatile region.)
 Some fear that Iran will be the winner. But will it? Once we are out of Iraq, Iran will have to manage the boiling pot next door. That will be a huge problem for Iran. The historical enmity toward Iran by Iraqi Arabs -- enmity temporarily focused on us -- will re-emerge. And Iran will also have to compete with its ally Syria for influence in Iraq.
 Yes, the best way to contain Iran would have been to produce a real Shiite-led democracy in Iraq, exposing the phony one in Tehran. But second best is leaving Iraq. Because the worst option -- the one Iran loves -- is for us to stay in Iraq, bleeding, and in easy range to be hit by Iran if we strike its nukes.
 Finally, the war in Iraq has so divided us at home and abroad that leaving, while bringing other problems, might also make it easier to build coalitions to deal with post-U.S. Iraq, Iran, Hezbollah and Syria. All these problems are connected. We need to deal with Iran and Syria, but from a position of strength -- and that requires a broad coalition.
 The longer we maintain a unilateral failing strategy in Iraq, the harder it will be to build such a coalition, and the stronger the enemies of freedom will become.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); RELIGION (77%); ARMED FORCES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (50%) 

COMPANY: JORDAN AS (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (60%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); JORDAN (79%); CHINA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); EGYPT (79%) Iraq; Iran; Syria; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



56 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Hezbollah Kills 12 Israelis And Threatens Tel Aviv
Hezbollah killed 12 Israelis, including 8 civilians, making Thursday Israel's deadliest day in more than three weeks of conflict. And Hezbollah's leader, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, warned he would send long-range missiles into Tel Aviv if the Israelis continued airstrikes. A1

Eight Palestinians, mostly militants but including a 12-year-old, were killed by Israeli forces in Gaza. 
 A9

The question of Palestinian prisoners held by Israel is the subtext of the crisis and is likely to figure in its resolution. It is an issue that animates Hezbollah and the Palestinians as much as anything else in their fight with Israel. A1

While public and official support for Hezbollah has grown in the Arab world, sectarian disquiet still persists in whispered conversations in some governments and mosques. A8

General Warns of Iraqi Civil War
The commander of American forces in the Middle East bluntly warned a Senate committee that sectarian violence in Iraq, especially in Baghdad, had grown so severe that the nation could move toward civil war. A1

The Republican chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee lashed out at the White House, criticizing attempts to keep secret parts of a report on the role Iraqi exiles played in building the case for war. A6

American troops opened fire on a van carrying armed Shiites to an anti-Israel demonstration in Baghdad, killing up to two and wounding others, officials said. A6

21 Killed in Afghan Bombing
A suicide bomber blew up his car in the center of a bazaar in Afghanistan, killing himself and 21 civilians and wounding 14 others, among them children. Hours earlier, 4 NATO soldiers were killed and 10 wounded in two attacks in the same area, Afghan and NATO officials said. A6

Venezuela Aids Cuban Economy
As Raul Castro takes up the task of leading Cuba in place of his brother Fidel, Cuba's economy is strong largely because Venezuela has been using its tremendous oil reserves to prop up the Castro government and counter Bush administration policy in Latin America. A1

Expensive Dog Toys
A Doberman pinscher guard dog at a tourist attraction in London chewed, tore, ripped and otherwise savaged about 100 teddy bears at an exhibit, including one reputed to have belonged to Elvis Presley. A3

17 Die in Sri Lanka Clashes
At least 17 civilians were killed when shells hit four schools being used as shelters on the fourth day of clashes between Sri Lankan security forces and rebels. A4

Ukraine Leader Forms Coalition
President Viktor A. Yushchenko of Ukraine allied himself with a parliamentary coalition led by his critics and rivals after negotiating a nonbinding agreement that he said would preserve his main policy goals, including integrating the country into Europe and NATO.A7

NATIONAL A11-15

Senate Democrats BlockWage-Tax Package
Senate Democrats blocked legislation tying the first minimum wage increase in almost a decade to a decrease in the federal estate tax, denying Republicans a legislative victory. A1

Immigrants Unsettle Georgia
Over the past decade, hundreds of thousands of immigrants, mostly from Mexico, have poured into the South, bypassing traditional settlement states like New York, California and Florida in favor of far-flung towns with thriving industries. A1

DeLay Must Remain on Ballot
Tom DeLay will have to stay on the Texas ballot for his former Congressional seat in November, a federal appeals court panel ruled. A11

Prison Artist is Disciplined
A prison artist in California who uses the dye from M&M's for paint has been disciplined for what a prison official called ''unauthorized business dealings'' in the sale of his paintings. A12

EDUCATION

Ruling on Special Education
The federal Education Department said states cannot require school districts to rely on the current method to identify children as learning disabled. A12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

What Exactly Is a Planet?
Astronomers have been debating where to put the dividing line between planets and comets and asteroids. Outside the solar system, the dividing line between planets and stars has also become blurry. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Donors Are Circumventing Campaign Finance Limits
Candidates for governor in New York are barred from taking more than $50,100 from any single donor during their campaigns. But wealthy donors have legally circumvented state contribution limits to shower six-figure donations on candidates by using limited liability corporations to give more than the maximum the state allows. B1

Heat Blamed in 4 Deaths
While residents of the region waited for cooler weather to arrive overnight, the human toll of the heat wave became apparent, with at least four deaths linked to the weather: a woman who died after passing out in her Long Island home, a couple who died in their Newark apartment and a man found unconscious in Brooklyn. B1

Representing Brooke Astor
A lawyer who has represented Brooke Astor since 2004 was suspended from practicing law in New York State for two years in the 1990's. That year her son, Anthony D. Marshall, dropped the well-regarded law firm that represented her estate for 40 years. B1

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-6

Track Coach Under Pressure
Olympic and world track officials turned up the pressure on Trevor Graham, the coach of the sprinter Justin Gatlin and at least six other runners who have served drug suspensions. D1

OBITUARIES B7

Elisabeth Schwarzkopf
The German-born soprano whose interpretations of Strauss and Mozart made her one of the most dazzling artists of her time, she was 90. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Trial for Richard Grasso
A jury will begin hearing testimony in the lawsuit filed against Richard A. Grasso by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general. The suit contends that $200 million in severance awarded to him was ''unreasonable'' and violated state laws governing non-profit organizations. C1

Stock Options Inquiry
A New York-based communications software company, Comverse Technology, is being investigated by federal authorities over stock options it granted employees. Three months ago, the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the general counsel resigned. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: The sound of one domino falling; please hold the free lunches; China and Darfur; au revoir, freedom fries.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E28
TV Listings E23
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (95%); WAR & CONFLICT (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); DOGS (69%); RELIGION (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); TAX LAW (60%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%)

PERSON: HASSAN NASRALLAH (58%); RAUL CASTRO (57%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); CUBA (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); UKRAINE (91%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



57 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Strong Consumer Spending Drives Trading 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Mild economic data and strong retail sales lifted stocks yesterday and helped investors overcome concerns about a possible interest rate increase next week.
 With retailers reporting a generally positive July, typically a slow month for sales, investors were reassured about the strength of consumer spending. In addition, the Institute for Supply Management's services index came in below expectations, evidence that economic growth is moderating.
The Federal Reserve meets Tuesday to determine whether the nation's benchmark rate should be pushed up a quarter-percentage point to 5.5 percent. The services data, along with a Commerce Department report showing slower-than-expected growth in factory orders, could give policy makers enough evidence of a slowing economy to hold back on a rate increase. 
 ''Both reports bode well for a soft-landing scenario,'' which would maintain growth while keeping inflation in check, said Peter Cardillo, chief strategist and senior vice president at S. W. Bach & Company.
 The Commerce Department said new orders at factories rose only 1.2 percent in June on weak orders outside the transportation and defense sectors. After excluding transportation, factory orders rose 0.1 percent.
 The Institute for Supply Management reported that its index of activity in the service sector clocked in at 54.8 last month, down from 57.0 in June. Economists were expecting a stronger performance. A reading of 50 or more indicates expanding activity, while below 50 indicates shrinking activity.
 Also, the number of people signing up for unemployment benefits climbed last week but still pointed to decent conditions in the nation's job market. New applications for unemployment insurance rose by a seasonally adjusted 14,000, to 315,000, the highest since early July, the Labor Department said yesterday.
 Although the level of claims was higher than the 308,000 that economists were expecting, it still suggested the job market remained stable. A year ago, new claims stood at 318,000.
 The economic data allowed investors to look past rate increases from the European Central Bank and Bank of England. With rates rising in Europe, the Fed may feel comfortable with another rate increase, which would keep American investments competitive. Additionally, today's monthly job creation report from the Labor Department is expected to serve as a better gauge of the Fed's intentions, with strong job growth considered a signal for more rate increases.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 42.66 points, or 0.38 percent, to 11,242.59. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 1.72 points, or 0.13 percent, to 1,280.27, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 13.53 points, or 0.65 percent, to 2,092.34.
 Bonds traded in a narrow range, with the price of the benchmark 10-year note rising 1/32, to 101 9/32, and the yield unchanged. The dollar fell against most major currencies, and gold prices also slumped because of the European rate increases.
 Crude oil futures fell after weather forecasters said Tropical Storm Chris was weakening and might not affect refineries and oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. A barrel of light crude settled at $75.46, down 35 cents, in New York trading.
 Investors favoring an end to interest rate increases were cheered as weekly first-time unemployment claims rose slightly. Analysts say a softening labor market could allow the Fed to stop raising rates. First-time claims rose to 315,000 from 301,000 the previous week.
 ''You're seeing two days of buying now in front of Friday's jobs report and the Fed meeting this week, and that tells me the market is expecting the Fed to stop raising rates,'' said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank. 
 Interest rates aside, investors welcomed the latest round of retail sales reports. Wal-Mart Stores added 36 cents, to $44.73, after reporting a 2.4 percent gain in same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year. 
 Target posted a lower-than-expected 3.1 percent increase in same-store sales, but its stock rose 61 cents, to $46.39, as it said it would meet or beat Wall Street's quarterly profit estimates.
 Gap lost 51 cents, or 3 percent, to $16.61 after it said its sales dropped 4 percent for July.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%) 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); BANK OF ENGLAND (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



58 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: First Big Contract Given for 9/11 Memorial

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The first big construction contract for the 9/11 memorial -- 118 footings from which the structure will rise within the deep hole at ground zero -- was awarded yesterday by the Port Authority and the World Trade Center Memorial Foundation. 
 Work is to begin this month, officials said. Last March, in a preparatory job that was then hailed by Gov. George E. Pataki as the start of ''actual construction,'' crews built protective enclosures around the remnants of the original perimeter columns that define the twin towers' footprints. The memorial will occupy much of this area.
E. E. Cruz & Company of Holmdel, N.J., won the $17 million contract. There were four bidders.
 The company built the foundations for the Goldman Sachs tower at 30 Hudson Street in Jersey City, which made use of a slurry wall like that at the trade center, and also built part of the AirTrain light-rail system that burrows below the runways at Kennedy International Airport.
 ''This is the clearest sign yet that this memorial is actually being built, and it is a powerful signal to our donors,'' said Joseph C. Daniels, the acting president of the foundation, which is to raise $300 million for the memorial and museum ($130 million down, $170 million to go).
 Less than a month ago, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the trade center site, agreed to take over construction of the memorial and museum, in the name of efficiency and economy.
 ''We're excited about this because it's the very first step in our partnership with the memorial foundation,'' said Kenneth J. Ringler Jr., the executive director of the authority. ''The starting of the foundations is a significant step.''
 Last winter, bids came in unexpectedly high on an earlier footings contract put out by the foundation and the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation.
 The contract was shelved as officials began re-examining the overall cost estimates for the memorial. That process led them to modify the memorial design in order to meet a budget goal of $500 million.
 There are a total of 142 footings for the memorial and museum, Mr. Daniels said. The remaining footings will be covered by a subsequent contract.
 From 5,000 to 10,000 cubic yards of dirt will be removed from the site through drilling, blasting and excavation, said Edward Cruz, the president of the Cruz company. The holes will reach bedrock, 4 to 10 feet below the lowermost level of the memorial. Concrete will be poured into those holes, into which about 500 tons of reinforcing steel will also be set. These concrete and steel footings will support the structure above.
 The job is to be finished next March.
 Mr. Cruz recalled yesterday that his workers were building the foundations for the Goldman Sachs tower on Sept. 11, 2001, when they watched the terror unfold across the Hudson River. The company then sent equipment to Lower Manhattan to help in the cleanup, he said.
 So the memorial project has a special resonance, Mr. Cruz said. ''It's something all our people want: to go back and finish the job.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The footprint of the north tower of the World Trade Center was encased in plywood in March to prepare for construction of the 9/11 memorial. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); POURED CONCRETE CONTRACTORS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BUDGETS (74%); AIRPORTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (52%) 

COMPANY: EE CRUZ & CO INC (71%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; World Trade Center Memorial Foundation; Cruz, E E, & Co

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Edward Cruz; David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



59 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Opposing Experts Square Off Over Grasso's Pay 

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
Was the $200 million awarded to Richard A. Grasso in his four final years as head of the New York Stock Exchange just and reasonable? Or was his pay an egregious misstep approved by a beholden and blindfolded board? 
 It depends on which expert you ask.
Next month, a jury will begin hearing testimony in the lawsuit filed against Mr. Grasso by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general. The suit contends that the $80.6 million in compensation and $119.8 million in retirement benefits awarded to Mr. Grasso from 1999 through 2002 was unreasonable and violated the state's laws governing nonprofits. Mr. Grasso contends that the pay was reasonable and justified by his many contributions to the Big Board, a nonprofit organization. 
 Court filings made this week by experts on both sides provide a glimpse of what the jury will hear in the case. The filings also indicate that information about the exchange's financial results, upon which the Big Board's directors relied in approving Mr. Grasso's biggest paydays, was inflated through the use of an improper accounting technique.
 Mr. Grasso was ousted from the New York Stock Exchange in 2003 after details of his compensation became public. The outcry surrounding his pay opened the door to greater scrutiny of executive compensation across the country. 
 Kenneth G. Langone, former chairman of the compensation committee at the exchange from 1999 through 2002, is also a defendant in the attorney general's suit. Both Mr. Grasso and Mr. Langone have denied wrongdoing in the matter. 
 Experts hired by the New York attorney general's office contended in court filings that Mr. Grasso's pay was inappropriate because it vastly exceeded that received by executives in five different comparative groups during the 1999-2002 period and because it was based on financial results that were inflated by an improper accounting technique.
 The experts for Mr. Grasso argued that his compensation, which jumped from $6 million in 1998 to $30.55 million three years later, was appropriate because it reflected common practice at public companies and was the result of thoughtful deliberations by an informed board. They contended that members of the exchange board had all the information they needed to approve the pay of Mr. Grasso.
 Charles Edward Ramos, the New York State Supreme Court justice overseeing the case, asked for expert opinions from representatives of Mr. Grasso and Mr. Spitzer. The experts submitted their opinions Monday on matters relating to compensation, accounting and corporate governance.
 On Mr. Grasso's side are Evelyn Brody, a law professor at Chicago-Kent College of Law and an authority on nonprofit corporations; Daniel R. Fischel, president of Lexecon, a consulting firm specializing in applying economics to legal and regulatory issues; and Walter J. Pagano, an accounting authority who is a partner at Eisner, an accounting firm. On matters relating to executive compensation, Mr. Grasso was supported by Kevin J. Murphy, a finance professor at the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California, and Robert S. Hamada, a professor emeritus of finance at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, provided a statement on corporate governance. 
 Opining for the attorney general were Melvin A. Eisenberg, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley; Brian J. Hall, a professor at Harvard Business School and a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research; and W. Bruce Johnson, an accounting professor at the Tippie College of Business at the University of Iowa. 
 Mr. Pagano declined to comment. The other experts did not respond to requests for comment. 
 Mr. Spitzer's experts provided extensive data to justify their conclusions. Mr. Hall, for example, provides six exhibits detailing how Mr. Grasso's pay stacked up against comparable companies, including those in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, those in the financial industry and those in peer groups devised by Mr. Hall and by Towers Perrin, a compensation consultant hired to advise the exchange after Mr. Grasso's ouster. 
 Mr. Hall concluded that Mr. Grasso's total pay, excluding pension, was more than three times the median compensation of executives in the S.& P. 500, and more than double that of financial executives. 
 One of Mr. Hall's exhibits also shows that Mr. Grasso's pay, excluding pension, far exceeded that of his predecessor, William H. Donaldson, and his successor, John A. Thain, and that it skyrocketed after Mr. Langone became chairman of the compensation committee of the exchange's board in 1999.
 Mr. Hall concluded that Mr. Grasso's total compensation from 1999 through 2002, excluding his pension, should have been $18.8 million, not the $80.6 million he received. And, according to Mr. Hall's calculations, a reasonable pension benefit would have been $15.4 million, not the $119.8 million that he was awarded.
 The group of companies used by the exchange's board to benchmark Mr. Grasso's pay was inappropriate, Mr. Hall contended, because it included companies that were far larger than the Big Board. For instance, the median annual revenue of the companies in the group was $26 billion, more than 25 times that of the exchange; the assets at companies in the group were more than 125 times the N.Y.S.E.'s assets. 
 Mr. Johnson, the accounting expert testifying on behalf of New York State, said that when Big Board officials computed the costs of Mr. Grasso's pension, they used a ''smoothing technique'' that did not comply with generally accepted accounting principles. The result was a $43 million understatement of the pension expense, which inflated the exchange's pretax income by 12.5 percent from 1999 through 2002. 
 Although Mr. Grasso had five experts to Mr. Spitzer's three, those testifying on behalf of the former exchange chief provided little documentation for their conclusions that his pay was appropriate. 
 Mr. Murphy, for example, stated that during the period at issue in the case, corporate boards did not typically calculate what an executive stood to receive in pension benefits when he or she retired. The fact that the exchange board had not monitored Mr. Grasso's ballooning pension, therefore, was not unusual.
 Mr. Hamada, a corporate governance expert, contended that Mr. Grasso's regulatory authority over some of the exchange's directors did not create a conflict of interest that made them beholden to him. His submission to the court did not explain why he took this view.
 In her filing, Ms. Brody, the expert on nonprofit organizations, concluded that determining whether the compensation paid to Mr. Grasso was reasonable would have required giving ''considerable weight to the judgments of representatives of the membership.'' She did not note that the details of Mr. Grasso's pay were not disclosed to the exchange's membership until shortly before his ouster. 
 Mark C. Zauderer, a lawyer at Flemming Zulack Williamson Zauderer in New York and co-counsel for Mr. Grasso, said: ''You cannot draw any conclusion from the degree of detail provided in these statements. They are intended to give reasonable detail as to the nature of experts' testimony which will be provided at trial so that each side has an opportunity to prepare.''
 Avi Schick, a deputy attorney general in New York, said: ''What we intend to prove is that an improperly constituted board and comp committee awarded Mr. Grasso compensation that was unreasonable and improper and the exchange then improperly accounted for those awards to hide their true cost.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Grasso, the former chief executive of the New York Stock Exchange. A trial over the size of his compensation begins next month. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)(pg. C7)Chart: ''Comparing Paychecks''Former N.Y.S.E. chief, Richard A. Grasso, received vastly higher pay than his predecessor or successor.During Kenneth G. Langone's tenure as head of the N.Y.S.E. compensation committee, Mr. Grasso's pay hit its peak, according to an expert for the New York attorney general.William H. Donaldson1991-1994Richard A. Grasso1995-2003John A. Thain2004-2005Graph tracks pay of N.Y.S.E. chiefs since 1991.Note: Compensation does not include pension benefits. Figures from 1995 and 2003 are for partial years.(Sources by N.Y.S.E., court filings)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (94%); JURY TRIALS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); APPROVALS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); TESTIMONY (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Stock Exchange; New York Stock Exchange; New York Stock Exchange

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%); JOHN THAIN (58%) Richard A Grasso; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Gretchen Morgenson; Kenneth G Langone

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



60 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Cuba Perks Up as Venezuela's Lifeline Foils U.S. Embargo

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO; An employee of The New York Times who could not be named for security reasons contributed reporting from Havana for this article.

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Aug. 3 

 BODY:
As Raul Castro takes up the task of leading Cuba in place of his brother Fidel, there is, surprisingly, one less thing he may have to worry about: the state of Cuba's economy.
 The credit goes, in large part, to the economic lifeline thrown to Cuba by the Venezuelan president, Hugo Chavez, who is using his country's tremendous oil reserves to prop up the Castro government and counter Bush administration policy in Latin America.
To the exasperation of American officials, long determined to force a change of government by choking off the Cuban economy with an embargo, Venezuela's patronage may take some pressure off Raul Castro at what is otherwise a time of great uncertainty. 
 The Cuban government released no new information on Thursday on the health of Fidel Castro, 79, who is recuperating from a still-unexplained abdominal surgery. Raul Castro, 75, who was named provisional leader on Monday by his brother, has yet to make an appearance. 
 In his first public comment on Fidel Castro's illness, President Bush issued a statement on Thursday saying, ''I urge the Cuban people to work for democratic change on the island.'' 
 ''We will support you in your effort to build a transitional government in Cuba committed to democracy, and we will take note of those, in the current Cuban regime, who obstruct your desire for a free Cuba,'' Mr. Bush added. 
 The government made it clear Thursday that it intended to continue to rule the country, and reprinted in the party-run newspaper Granma a speech by Raul Castro saying the party would carry on ruling no matter what happened to Fidel Castro. A report issued last month for President Bush said, ''The current regime in Havana is working with like-minded governments, particularly Venezuela, to build a network of political and financial support designed to forestall any external pressure to change.'' It was issued by the Commission for Assistance to a Free Cuba, which is chaired by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 
 Wayne Smith, a former American diplomat in Havana, said that in recent years the Bush administration has shifted policy from openly working to undermine Fidel Castro's government to trying to ensure that he is not replaced by his brother Raul or another Communist figure. 
 ''Getting in the way is Chavez and Venezuela, giving assistance to Cuba -- and not only giving assistance but forming an alliance with Cuba,'' said Mr. Smith, who is a senior fellow at the Center for International Policy in Washington. ''It just drives the Bush people crazy.''
 One of the world's last Communist countries, Cuba's economy is far from healthy, but it is also a world away from the one left destitute and marooned when Cuba's long-time benefactor, the Soviet Union, collapsed, beginning in about 1989.
 Compared with the grim early 1990's, when imports -- the vast majority from Eastern Europe -- plunged nearly 75 percent in three years, Cuba's economy has shown important signs of renewal in recent years. 
 At the Farmers Market on 19th Street in Havana on Thursday, stalls were brimming with super-sized avocados and mangoes. String beans were almost a foot long. Rolls came out warm from the oven. Vendors offered lobster and shrimp caught fresh that morning. And the place was bustling with paying customers.
 For vendors, the money is so good that some abandoned government posts to sell produce. ''I used to make about $5 a month,'' said Jose Antonio Milanes Vasco, once employed in a state food warehouse. ''Now I make $3 a day. My life has been totally transformed.''
 Philip Peters, an expert on the Cuban economy at the Virginia-based Lexington Institute, said that such experiments with open-market reforms have helped lift the island's economy. Such farmers markets, Mr. Peters noted, were supported by Raul Castro in the early 1990's, when the government first allowed farmers to sell their surplus crops after the state found itself unable to pay farm subsidies. 
 Today, Mr. Peters said, there are 300 such markets across the country. And while the state continues to provide families with monthly allowances of rice, beans, cooking oil, milk and other basic items, the so-called ''free markets,'' have turned some farmers into venture capitalists and revitalized the agricultural sector.
 ''Clearly Cuba has moved far beyond the crisis that affected it in the 1990's,'' Mr. Peters said. ''Back then, the question was whether the economy would survive. That is not a question anymore.''
 Instead, the question for any government after Fidel Castro, particularly for one headed by his brother Raul, is whether those economic openings will widen. 
 While the political realm would in all likelihood remain tightly controlled under Raul Castro, he has in recent years sent signals that Cuba could dabble with the kind of economic reforms that have been embraced by other authoritarian governments, like those in China and Vietnam.
 Though he is the head of the army and state security apparatus, he has also run the island's tourism industries, which were one of Cuba's first experiments with allowing controlled pockets of economic liberalization. Today they generate about $2 billion a year in foreign earnings. 
 The government says economic growth topped 10 percent last year. The figure is doubtful to many economists, but even the C.I.A. put growth at 8 percent in 2005.
 Cuban resources, like nickel, are selling at record highs, and the island may in the future benefit from plans to turn sugar cane into ethanol. 
 Havana has also signed important economic deals with countries like China, Canada and Spain, whose companies are interested in everything from selling transportation equipment and machinery to investing in tourism and oil exploration.
 But no country has been more important to Cuba than Venezuela. 
 Mr. Chavez, who often meets with Mr. Castro and speaks of the elder president as Latin America's most important statesman, has provided Cuba with 100,000 barrels of oil a day at a cut rate. 
 Venezuela provides credits, pays for more than 20,000 Cuban doctors who offer services to the poor in Venezuela and bankrolls programs like Mission Miracle, whereby tens of thousands of Latin Americans are flown to Havana for eye surgeries that raise hundreds of million of dollars annually for the Cuban state.
 ''Without a doubt, Cuba was able to come back and it's because of Venezuela's help, not just the oil accord but many other types of assistance,'' said Jose Toro Hardy, an oil economist in Caracas, Venezuela.
 The Cuba Transition Project, a University of Miami team of researchers who study Cuba's economy, say Venezuela has provided more than $2 billion in financing, most of it in crude oil and refined petroleum products. 
 Indeed, the Venezuelan oil accounts for half Cuba's total consumption -- a windfall for a nation that, until recently, was mostly surviving on tourism dollars.
 Venezuela has also become a major buyer of otherwise uncompetitive Cuban goods, like aging parts from old sugar mills and battered medical equipment. Exports from the island to Venezuela rose from just $25 million in 2002 to $300 million by 2004. 
 All together, Caracas and Havana have signed dozens, perhaps hundreds, of economic accords, the most important being a recent trade pact with Bolivia's president, Evo Morales, that is aimed at countering Washington's efforts to create a hemispheric trade agreement.
 Among the most important of the Chavez government's projects in Cuba is the restoration of the Cienfuegos oil refinery on the island, a plan that could cost Venezuela hundreds of millions of dollars. The Venezuelans are talking not just of reactivating the long-dormant facility, but also of upgrading it to refine the heavy, tar-like Venezuelan oil.
 Raul Castro, as his brother's chosen successor, would benefit greatly from continued Venezuelan largess, which could give him the comfort to experiment with other parts of the economy. 
 ''The Cuban government has made statements lately that if Raul is in power, one of his main concerns is going to be dealing with the basic needs of the Cuban population,'' said Eric Driggs, a researcher at the Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies at University of Miami. ''If that means giving some measure of a better life or putting more food on the table, I think he'll take it.'' 
 Mr. Driggs and others, like Mauricio A. Font, a Cuban-born expert on the Castro government at the City University of New York, caution that while the Venezuelan aid is vital to propping up the economy, it does little to help Cuba be self-sufficient. 
 The importance of tourism is everywhere in Cuba, from its elegant hotels to the costly renovation of Havana's historic center, which have attracted tourists like Mieke Zee, a nurse from the Netherlands, and her husband, Jeroen.
 She said they had been to Africa several times. ''Poverty does not seem so bad here,'' she said. ''I mean, I have been to countries where children do not have enough to eat. Here children eat, they go to school and they have health care.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, right, and Fidel Castro at a statue of a young Che Guevara in Argentina. (Photo by Presidencia/Agence France-Presse)Chart: ''A New Benefactor''When the Soviet Union collapsed, Cuba lost billions in subsidies and plunged into an economic crisis. But its economy has been recovering, largely because of a relationship with Venezuela.Foreign financing in Cuba 2005-6, in billionsVenezuela: $2.1Deferred, forgiven or subsidized payments on oil and other exportsChina: 1.1Trade credits, joint nickel mining projectFrance: 0.5The Netherlands: 0.3Spain: 0.3Short-term financingIran: 0.3Joint projectsOther 1.6(Source by Cuba Transition Project)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (54%) 

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (94%); FIDEL CASTRO (93%); HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) Juan Forero; Fidel (Pres) Castro; Raul Castro; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (57%) CUBA (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Cuba; Venezuela; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006



61 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Slackened Last Month

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Employers added jobs in July at a slow pace for the fourth consecutive month and the unemployment rate jumped, the government reported yesterday, offering the strongest evidence yet of a weakening economy.
 The latest jobs report, coming on top of other signs of modest growth, persuaded most Wall Street analysts that the Federal Reserve's policy makers will not raise interest rates when they meet next Tuesday. That would end a string of 17 consecutive rate increases.
''I would be absolutely astonished if the Fed raised rates next week,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist for High Frequency Economics. ''The loss of momentum in the economy is all too evident.'' 
 The economy gained only a seasonally adjusted 113,000 jobs last month, in line with the average for April through June, and well below the first-quarter pace of 176,000 a month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. 
 The unemployment rate, which usually moves in tenth-of-a-point increments, when it moves at all, jumped two-tenths in July, to 4.8 percent, the highest level in five months. Nearly all of the increase was among African-Americans.
 Until now, analysts considered it a close call whether the Fed would continue with its rate increases, which have been aimed at preventing a gradually rising inflation rate from escalating further. But with the new data, the risk of a weakening economy moved to the fore.
 Citing the jobs numbers on top of recent reports that housing and retail sales are slowing and business investment has dropped, some economists are now expressing concern that the Fed could push the nation toward recession if it were to lift interest rates much higher.
 ''The Fed has engineered a slowdown,'' Robert Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, said of the 17 rate increases that have brought the key short-term rate that the Fed controls to 5.25 percent, from 1 percent a little more than two years ago. ''That will reverse the inflation pressures,'' Mr. Barbera predicted, ''but it will do so as the unemployment rate rises.''
 Indeed, for the unemployed, finding another job is getting harder. The average number of weeks spent looking for a job grew by more than a week in July, to 17.3 weeks, the largest monthly jump since last August. At the same time, 1.3 million of the unemployed, or more than 18 percent, were out of work for 27 weeks or longer, an increase of 200,000 since June.
 The rise underscored a greater reluctance by employers to hire in the face of an uncertain economy.
 Three broad areas accounted for most of the hiring slowdown in July. Job gains have shrunk -- or in some cases jobs are now being lost -- in residential construction and real estate, retail trade and financial services, particularly mortgage banking.
 ''We have not yet seen the full effects of the housing slowdown on jobs,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Economy.com, who estimates that 10 percent of the nation's jobs are in housing-related industries. Jobs in commercial construction, on the other hand, rose last month, suggesting that nonresidential activity is helping to offset some of the decline in housing.
 Commenting on the jobs numbers, the Bush administration's chief economist said the July report reflected an essentially healthy economy. ''The underlying economy remains strong,'' Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television, noting that hiring had expanded for 36 months in a row and that nominal wages were rising faster than before.
 But pay for most workers is still not keeping up with inflation. Hourly wages rose last month for the more than 80 million production workers whose pay is tracked in the monthly employment reports, to an average of $16.76 an hour, up 7 cents, or four-tenths of a percent, from June. Over the last 12 months, this wage has risen 3.8 percent,which is nearly a percentage point more than in the previous 12 months. 
 But consumer prices have risen even faster, up 4.3 percent in the 12 months through June. So purchasing power has been lost, despite the raises.
 Some analysts fear that workers will fall further behind. ''Ultimately, a rising unemployment rate will translate into slower wage growth,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute. ''But it takes a while.'' 
 Manufacturing lost 15,000 jobs last month. That sector has shed millions of jobs in this decade as factories closed, companies figured out how to make more with fewer workers and other work moved overseas. But lately the industrial job market has shown more strength than housing.
 Despite last month's job loss, total employment of 14.2 million in manufacturing is slightly higher than last October, and the average workweek rose by two-tenths of an hour, to 41.5 hours last month, the highest level in six years.
 ''These numbers certainly say that manufacturing is still holding up,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at Global Insight. ''I am hoping that the slowdown in business equipment spending in the second quarter was temporary and there will be a rebound in the current quarter, strengthening the economy.''
 The areas of greatest job growth last month were in health services; in a category known as business and professional services, which includes computer system designers, architects and engineers; and in leisure and hospitality, which means employment at restaurants, bars, coffee shops and catering operations. 
 The weak job growth over the last four months reinforced the view that the economy was now moving to a growth rate of less than 3 percent, which many analysts expect to continue well into next year. For some economists, including Mr. Shepherdson and Mr. Barbera, the slower growth suggests that the Fed should hold off indefinitely on another rate increase. But others said that higher inflation remained a risk and argued that even if the Fed took a breather this month, higher rates were still necessary.
 ''I don't think the Fed should stop,'' said Ethan Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers. ''We have had four bad consumer price reports in a row and we think we are in for a period of higher inflation.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A job seeker at a labor career center in New York City. Securing work is getting harder as employers have added fewer jobs than expected. (Photo by Jeremy Sparig/Bloomberg News)(pg. C9)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in July''Graph shows the unemployment rate (4.8%) for the year.BY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteJULY: 4.1%1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2BlackJULY: 9.51-MONTH CHANGE: +0.51-YEAR CHANGE: +0.1Hispanic*JULY: 5.31-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2AsianJULY: 2.7+1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.81-YEAR CHANGE: -2.5Teenagers (16-19)JULY: 15.51-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENTIn weeksAverageJULY: 17.31-MONTH CHANGE: +6.8%1-YEAR CHANGE: -2.3%MedianJULY: 8.21-MONTH CHANGE: +9.31-YEAR CHANGE: -7.9Graph: ''Employment'' shows nonfarm payroll, 12-month change.AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGSRank-and-file workersJULY: $568.101-MONTH CHANGE: +0.41-YEAR CHANGE: +4.1%SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedJULY: 63.01-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +0.2Labor force (workers and unemployed)JULY: 66.21-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENTIn millionsWorking part time, but want full-time workJULY: 4.11-MONTH CHANGE: -2.9%1-YEAR CHANGE: -4.8%People who currently want a job**JULY: 5.0+1-MONTH CHANGE: -2.31-YEAR CHANGE: -1.5UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVELLess than high schoolJULY: 7.1%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5High schoolJULY: 4.51-MONTH CHANGE: +0.41-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3Some collegeJULY: 3.61-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1Bachelor's or higherJULY: 2.11-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3BY TYPE OF WORKIn millionsNonfarmJULY: 135.41-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.3%GoodsJULY: 22.41-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.3ServicesJULY: 112.91-MONTH CHANGE: +0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +1.3AgricultureJULY: 2.31-MONTH CHANGE: +0.81-YEAR CHANGE: -3.1Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.**People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INFLATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (64%); RETAIL SALES (64%); CONSTRUCTION (64%) 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO INC (65%); HOENIG & CO LTD (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Bureau of Labor Statistics; Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



62 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: A Slowdown in a Sensitive Sector May Bode Ill for Stocks, or Worse 

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
THE most volatile part of the American economy has slowed significantly in the last nine months, providing a warning of both recession and lower stock prices.
 The measure looks at growth in three broad areas that are the most sensitive to economic changes and to interest rates -- consumer purchases of durable goods, residential construction spending and business investment in equipment and computer software. They can be called the sensitive sector.
In the fourth quarter of 2005, and again in the second quarter of this year, that part of the economy actually shrank, although a strong first-quarter performance meant that even that sector was up a little for the nine months. 
 As the accompanying charts show, the sensitive sector is more than three times as volatile as the rest of the economy. But it has usually been a better performer. Since the end of 1954, a period of more than half a century, the sensitive sector has grown at an average rate of 4.6 percent a year, compared with 3 percent for the rest of the economy.
 Over time, a good indicator of both the economy and the stock market has been the relative performance of the two parts of the economy over nine-month periods. Most of the time, the sensitive sector does better. But when that sector turns in poorer performance after a sustained period of outperformance, it is a warning. And that is what has happened. Over the nine months through June, the sensitive sector grew at an annual rate of 2.1 percent, while the rest grew at a rate of 3.7 percent.
 This is only the ninth such reversal since 1954. Each of the previous eight foreshadowed a substantial slowing of the overall economy, although not all were quickly followed by recessions. There was no early recession after reversals in 1955, 1964, 1978 or 1987. But recessions followed quickly after reversals in 1959, 1969, 1973 and 2000.
 Moreover, anyone who got out of the stock market when a reversal happened seldom regretted it. There were some gains, but they were generally small. And selling at the time of the reversals would have gotten investors out before the major bear market of 1974-75, the 1987 stock market crash and the worst part of the stock market decline from 2000 to 2002. Over all, the average performance of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index in the 12 months after a reversal is a negative 5.7 percent.
 In some of the cases where no recession came quickly, that was because of abrupt policy reversals. In 1964, tax cuts provided a fiscal stimulus. The 1987 crash was followed by a rapid easing of fiscal policy by the Federal Reserve, which helped to hold off a downturn until 1990.
 The fact that the sensitive sector has slowed was pointed out by David Rosenberg, a Merrill Lynch economist. ''People have to start thinking about the next cycle,'' he said, raising the issue of how the economy will rebound after a downturn. ''We don't have a $250 billion surplus to shift into a $400 billion deficit. Mortgage rates are already low. There is no pent-up consumer demand.'' 
 If a recession does come, he says he thinks the most likely cause will be a downturn in the residential real estate market, which is already starting to suffer. Residential construction spending grew rapidly for most of this decade, but in the most recent quarter it fell at an annual rate of 6.3 percent.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Signs of a Slowdown?''The economic sectors most sensitive to interest rates and economic strength -- consumer purchases of durable goods, business investment in equipment and housing construction -- have shown negative growth in two of the last three quarters in the United States, while the rest of the economy, which tends to be less volatile, has continued to grow. In the past, poorer performance by the economically sensitive sectors has often signaled a recession or at least an economic slowdown, and has also indicated the stock market may do poorly.Graph shows the quarterly changes adjusted for inflation, at annual rate, in:Economically sensitive sectorsRest of economysince 1955.(Sources by Bureau of Economic Analysis, via Haver Analytics
 National Bureau of Economic Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (56%) 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



63 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Rivers of Oil Traced to the Sources

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
THOUGH oil specialists told him it was impossible, Paul Salopek, a foreign correspondent for The Chicago Tribune, managed to trace the origins of the gasoline sold at a station near Chicago through the supply chain to the crude oil under the water in the Gulf of Mexico and under the earth in Venezuela, Nigeria and Iraq.
 Having done so, Mr. Salopek and his colleagues at the newspaper put together a remarkable Web package (chicagotribune.com/news/specials) that includes the four articles he wrote (called chapters), several sidebars, a video documentary, maps and other features. It serves as sort of a ''Fast Food Nation'' for the oil industry. 
The story begins with Mr. Salopek watching a tanker truck driver, Howard Dunbar, unload 7,723 gallons of fuel at the Marathon station in South Elgin, on the edge of the expanding suburban sprawl 40 miles northwest of Chicago. ''It took Dunbar 29 minutes to empty his swimming-pool-size cargo -- a workaday chore that reveals the triumphs of our motorized civilization but also the seeds of its possible end,'' Mr. Salopek writes. 
 From there, using data provided by Marathon Petroleum (no other big oil company would help him), he follows the history of that fuel to its ''shadowy sources'' around the globe.
 Mr. Salopek's narrative is inhabited by a diverse cast of characters. A struggling single mother who manages the gas station and takes home about $500 a week. A customer, a real estate agent, who says she drives a Hummer because it ''signals success'' to her clients. A nerdy oil geologist who uses his office window as a blackboard.
 There is a Nigerian warlord clad only in his underwear as he issues threats against the oil companies and rails against the United States government. A former colonel in Saddam Hussein's army, now surrounded by machine-gun-toting guards as he risks his life working as a security agent for a British company in the Rumaila oil field. A United States secretary of state (and former Chevron board member) who claims to be surprised at oil's ability to ''warp'' world diplomacy. A Marxist Indian field hand in Venezuela who says he believes the United States will one day attack his country from outer space. 
 This journey around the world, Mr. Salopek writes, ''is, in effect, a journey into the heart of America's vast and troubled oil dependency. And what it exposes is a globe-spanning energy network that today is so fragile, so beholden to hostile powers and so clearly unsustainable, that our car-centered lifestyle seems more at risk than ever.'' 

HOW DO THEY DO THAT? -- Ever wonder how media companies figure out who is illicitly downloading their copyrighted material? In an installment this week of Slate's ''Explainer'' feature, ''How'd They Know I Downloaded 'Meet the Fockers'? '' (slate.com), Daniel Engber explains how corporate snoops often employ outside contractors -- and sometimes even hackers -- to do the work. They use software to determine the Internet protocol address of the users downloading (and often simultaneously uploading) movies and music. They also ''seed'' file-sharing networks with material to trap users into downloading it and then catch them.
 ''The only entity that knows which user goes with which I.P. address is the user's Internet service provider,'' Mr. Engber writes. That's why groups like the Motion Picture Association of America have gathered I.P. addresses and then filed lawsuits against anonymous plaintiffs.
 ''Once they've done that,'' he continues, ''they can ask a judge to subpoena an I.S.P. for the names that go along with those addresses.'' 

LOTS OF CHARTS -- If you like charts, you'll love this Web page (idorfman.com/Charts), which is just a big, random pile of economic- and business-oriented charts unencumbered by any of that pesky text stuff.
 The mysterious page (the host's Web registration is anonymous, and the homepage just says ''please leave now'') may be a shrine to the host's love of graphical representations of data, or (more likely) it's a holding place for the charts to be linked to from other pages. But either way, chart lovers will be in heaven. DAN MITCHELL


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE (90%); GAS STATIONS (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (65%); SUBURBS (53%); FARM LABOR (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) 

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (74%); MARATHON PETROLEUM CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Chicago Tribune; Slate.com

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (74%); MPC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (74%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%) Dan Mitchell; Paul Salopek

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (92%); NIGERIA (91%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



64 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: A Pension Overhaul Gives, and Later Takes Away

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Earlier this year, as Congress inched toward a broad overhaul of the nation's troubled corporate pension system, experts said the bill was so fraught with escape clauses that it could become easier for companies to shortchange their pension funds than under the current, flawed law.
 But under the version just approved by lawmakers, companies appear to get a break in putting money into their pension funds for only a couple of years before the rules start to tighten. Within a decade from now, according to a new analysis by the Congressional Budget Office, companies will be putting substantially more money behind their pension promises.
In a statement issued by the White House yesterday, after Senate approval of the bill Thursday night, President Bush called the measure ''the most comprehensive reforms to America's pension system in over 30 years,'' and said he would sign the measure ''soon.''
 Earlier, the White House had warned that the president would veto the bill if it appeared to weaken the pension system. 
 The final vote on the bill capped grueling weeks of closed-door negotiations that had seemed on the brink of collapse just one week ago. Congress has been trying for months to strengthen the nation's support for ''defined-benefit'' pensions -- the federal insurance system that guarantees fixed retirement payments for eligible workers, much as the government guarantees bank deposits.
 About 44 million Americans participate in the private pension system, but its future has been in doubt, as companies have switched in droves to newer types of benefits that do not offer guaranteed payments, and some have defaulted on their pension plans in bankruptcy. 
 Loopholes in the existing pension law have been making it possible for companies to put inadequate amounts into their pension funds without falling out of compliance. A string of big collapses in the last few years has threatened to swamp the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
 Lawmakers waded into the legislative swamp vowing to close the loopholes, but companies have lobbied hard against changes that would cost them too much too quickly. A comprehensive remaking of the system would cost billions of dollars, and the companies with the riskiest pension funds tend to be those least able to pay the cost. Companies with strong pension funds see little reason they should be stuck with the bills.
 Amid the jockeying over who would pay more and who would be spared, the pension guarantor did an analysis of the bill as drafted last winter. It showed that if the bill were enacted in that form, companies would actually end up putting less money into their pension funds than under the current law.
 This week the Congressional Budget Office issued a new analysis. It showed that in its latest form, the bill would indeed allow companies to put less into their pension funds for two years. But after that, a tightening would begin. By the fifth year after enactment, companies would be contributing more than under the current pension law. And the payments would continue to grow for several more years, before leveling off.
 Pension contributions would fall for two years because certain safeguards in the current law would be removed upon enactment, while the safeguards of the new law would be phased in gradually. 
 A spokesman for the pension agency said it had not updated its own analysis and could not say whether its own methodology would give the same results that the Congressional Budget Office got. 
 The bill will also increase the insurance premiums that companies pay the agency by roughly $6.8 billion over the next 10 years, the Congressional study found. 
 Winning a broad base of support for costly pension reforms has meant adding a number of provisions that will strengthen the pension system only indirectly, if at all. One popular measure will make it easier for companies with 401(k) plans to automatically enroll employees, instead of waiting for the employees to sign up themselves. That measure is expected to greatly increase the retirement savings of workers at companies with 401(k) plans. 
 Another provision of the bill will exempt the major airlines from the tougher new pension-funding rules -- a defeat for the Bush administration, which had seen airline relief as an improper giveaway that might prompt other troubled industries and companies to demand giveaways of their own. 
 The White House had previously warned that President Bush might veto a pension bill that offered special breaks for single industries or companies. But the Bush administration appears to have bowed to the strong, bipartisan support in both houses of Congress for finding ways to help the major airlines keep their pension funds afloat. 
 The biggest winner on that score is probably Northwest Airlines, which is in bankruptcy protection and had been warning that if Congress did not pass an airline relief provision before the August recess, it would terminate its pension plans and send them to the federal pension guarantor. 
 Delta Air Lines, which is also bankrupt, will receive the same relief as Northwest. But the help may come too late for Delta, which has already begun the process of terminating its pilots' pension plan. 
 The bill will give Northwest and Delta 17 years to make their pension funds fully solvent, in contrast to the seven years most companies will get.
 It will also allow Northwest and Delta to calculate their pension obligations in a lenient way, which will make the benefits the two airlines owe their workers look much smaller. That, in turn, will greatly reduce the amount of money the airlines have to put into their pension funds each year, assuming they emerge from bankruptcy with their plans intact.
 Just how much the airlines' pension obligations will appear to shrink will vary as interest rates change. But applying the measure to the pension data Northwest reported at the end of 2005 shows the relief is considerable: It would reduce the airline's reported pension obligations by $3.4 billion, a little more than one-third. 
 The change does not matter while Northwest remains in bankruptcy, where it has to pay only a fraction of its usual pension contributions. But the prospect of a big reduction in its future pension contributions should help the airline greatly as it looks for lenders to finance its emergence from bankruptcy.
 Northwest and Delta have both agreed to keep their pension plans frozen during the relief period, to reduce the risk that the smaller contributions will deplete them.
 The other major airlines that still have pension plans, American and Continental, will get a smaller break on their pension contributions. They will have 10 years to make their plans solvent, or three years longer than most companies. But they will not be allowed to use the lenient calculation method that Northwest and Delta do. Nor do they have to freeze their plans.
 American Airlines, a unit of AMR, issued a statement yesterday expressing relief that the long slog toward a pension bill was almost over, but saying it was dissatisfied with the airline provisions.
 It urged President Bush to sign the measure into law, but said it was also counting on legislators from Texas, where it is based, to take up the cause of airline relief as soon as they came back from the August recess. It said the relief for the bankrupt airlines would provide them with an unfair competitive advantage.
 Another of the bill's winners is United Parcel Service, which has 127,000 truck drivers who participate in a special type of plan jointly run by companies and unions, called multiemployer plans. The bill will give the trustees of such plans new authority to take remedial action if the plans become dangerously insolvent. They will be required to notify the participants of the crisis, and be allowed to reduce certain benefits to save money. Companies sponsoring such plans will have to increase their contributions by up to 10 percent. 
 U.P.S. had been eager to increase its control over such troubled plans as the Teamsters' Central States Pension Fund. The pension measures could have that effect in the next few months, when U.P.S. will begin contract negotiations with the Teamsters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); VETO (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%) 

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%) Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp; Congressional Budget Office

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (64%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



65 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: A Concern That Consumers Will Stop Spending

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
SOARING temperatures across much of the country and escalating violence in the Middle East kept energy prices high, making some economists worry that consumers may stop spending -- or that concern about rising prices generally will push up interest rates, which could also slow spending.
 Some evidence of that was apparent in domestic auto sales, but several large retailers said they saw signs that consumers were still shopping, though looking for bargains.

TOO HOT? Consumers have been buying more, but higher prices are apparently crimping the urge, government figures showed. That presents Federal Reserve policy makers with a particularly difficult decision about whether to raise interest rates further to keep inflation in check -- and risk inhibiting consumers even further. 
The Fed's main measure of inflation was up 2.4 percent in June from the month a year earlier, an increase not seen since September 2002 and well above the bank's target zone of 1 percent to 2 percent. Meanwhile, personal spending grew only 0.4 percent in June, the smallest increase this year. It grew 0.6 percent in May.
 America's manufacturing sector grew faster in July than in June, but companies paid significantly more for raw materials, the Institute for Supply Management, a trade group based in Tempe, Ariz., said.
 Fed policy makers will decide on Tuesday whether to increase short-term interest rates again. Interest rate futures markets suggest that traders see a slightly less than 50-50 chance the Fed will raise rates again.

STALLED -- Detroit automakers fell to a record low share of the lowest domestic market in July, 52 percent, as General Motors, Ford and the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler all said sales were off by 20 percent to 30 percent or more from the same month last year.
 The Japanese auto giant Toyota posted a 16 percent gain in sales, pushing it past Ford as the second-biggest-selling auto company in the country, behind G.M.
 Honda, also based in Japan, said sales rose 10.5 percent, letting it nudge ahead of Chrysler to finish in fourth place.
 The effect of $3-a-gallon gasoline became more apparent. Sales of Ford's F-series pickup, long the country's best-selling vehicle, fell 43.5 percent last month, while sales of Ford's Explorer S.U.V. were down more than 50 percent. 
 Ford plans to bring in a strategic adviser to review its automotive operations and help it decide which businesses to keep or sell.

CABLE BUY -- Comcast, the nation's biggest cable television company, and Time Warner Cable agreed to buy their scandal-weakened rival, Adelphia, for about $17 billion and split its assets and subscribers.
 Time Warner will gain 3.5 million basic cable customers, giving it a total of 14.5 million. Comcast will pick up an extra 1.7 million subscribers, bringing its total to 21.7 million. As part of the deal, Time Warner and Comcast will also swap customers in Florida, Texas and elsewhere.
 The companies -- particularly Time Warner, which will become the biggest cable company in both New York and Los Angeles -- will use their bigger sizes to extract deeper discounts from programmers, analysts said. Customers, however, are unlikely to see rates fall.

REBORN FREE -- Another Time Warner unit, AOL, said it would stop competing with cable companies in the Web access business, by not charging high-speed Internet customers for e-mail and other services and adopting an ad-supported model used by Yahoo, Google, Microsoft and other competitors.
 Advertising revenue is unlikely to compensate for subscription fees, at least for a time, so AOL also pledged to shed as many as 5,000 employees worldwide -- one-fourth of its payroll -- and to cut at least $1 billion in marketing, network and overhead costs.
 While AOL had been charging subscribers as much as $26 a month for its service, the number of people willing to pay has been steadily declining as more people paid for high-speed service through their cable television or telephone company.
 AOL, which has major offices in Reston, Va.; Oklahoma City; Ogden, Utah; and Tucson, did not say where jobs will be cut, but said it intended to notify employees in late September or early October.

REJECTION -- Flight attendants at Northwest Airlines overruled their union leaders and for the second time in less than two months rejected a proposed contract that called for $195 million in annual concessions.
 About 5,900 of the airline's 8,700 flight attendants voted on the proposed pact, with about 55 percent of the voters rejecting it.
 Flight attendants, along with other workers in the industry, are upset about pay cuts after seeing many airlines return to profitability in recent quarters. Managements say more cuts are needed for them to compete against lower-cost airlines.
 The airline said it would seek a bankruptcy court's approval to impose the changes unilaterally; the attendants' union, in turn, threatened a strike that could put Northwest out of business.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most popular business news articles on nytimes.com from July 29 through yesterday:

1. ''Men Not Working, and Not Wanting Just Any Job''
2. ''Mel Gibson: The Speed of Scandal''
3. ''An Image Popular in Films Raises Some Eyebrows in Ads''
4. ''Tax Cheats Called Out of Control''
5. ''Wal-Mart Finds That Its Formula Doesn't Fit Every Culture''

Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephanie Donovan buys school supplies in Millington, Tenn. Fed policy makers will determine next week whether to raise interest rates, which could curb consumer spending. (Photo by Karen Pulfer Focht/The Commercial Appeal, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (83%); AIRLINES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); WEATHER (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); PICKUP TRUCKS (71%); CABLE INDUSTRY (71%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (71%); FUTURES (70%); MARKET SHARE (68%); CABLE TELEVISION (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%) 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (82%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%) Federal Reserve System; Comcast Corp; Time Warner Inc ; Adelphia Communications Inc; Aol (America Online); Northwest Airlines; Association of Flight Attendants

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); TYT (LSE) (82%); TM (NYSE) (82%); 7203 (TSE) (82%); GM (NYSE) (53%); TWC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (88%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



66 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise on Jobs Report, but Close Down

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks fell slightly yesterday in a volatile session as concern about slowing growth offset optimism that the Federal Reserve will pause its rate increase cycle at its meeting next week.
 Shares of Apple Computer pulled the technology sector down after the company said it would probably have to restate earnings.
Blue-chip stocks rallied in the morning after a government report showed weaker-than-expected job growth last month, increasing expectations that the Fed's policy makers will refrain from raising rates again. But the soft reading on labor markets may also signal a slowdown in consumer spending and corporate profits, traders said. 
 The Open Market Committee of the Fed meets Tuesday to weigh whether the nation's benchmark rate should be increased.
 ''The first instinct after looking to the report was the Fed will pause and that got everyone fired up a bit,'' said Warren Simpson, managing director of Stephens Capital Management in Little Rock, Ark. ''But then when you look at it and the fact less jobs are being created than anticipated, I think everyone sobered up -- and thought maybe it's not that good for the economy.''
 Investors have been trying to guess when the central bank might pause in its rate increase campaign, and have been anticipating for months that the end of the tightening cycle is near. The Fed has raised interest rates 17 consecutive times since June 2004, driving its benchmark fed funds rate for overnight bank loans up to 5.25 percent from 1 percent, nearly a 40-year low, when the tightening cycle began. In the government jobs report, the Labor Department said employers added 113,000 workers to their payrolls in July, short of the 142,000 jobs forecast by economists. In another sign of the labor market weakening, the unemployment rate rose to 4.8 percent in July, from 4.6 percent in June.
 The Dow Jones industrial average declined 2.24 points, to 11,240.35. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.91 of a point, to 1,279.36. The Nasdaq composite index slipped 7.29 points, or 0.35 percent, to 2,085.05.
 For the week, the Dow gained 0.18 percent and the S.& P. 500 edged up 0.06 percent, while the Nasdaq fell 0.43 percent.
 The Dow's two biggest decliners yesterday were J. P. Morgan Chase, which fell 54 cents, to $45.12, and McDonald's, which was down 43 cents, to $35.41.
 On the Nasdaq, Apple declined $1.29, to $68.30, a day after the company said it expected to restate earnings because of irregularities in accounting for stock options.
 ''Apple really pushed the Nasdaq and many good stocks in the tech sector down,'' said Kevin Kruszenski, head of listed trading at KeyBanc Capital Markets in Cleveland.
 Other decliners on Nasdaq included Amgen and Career Education. 
 Amgen fell $2.13, to $68.79, after a court ruling that might weaken the biotechnology company's position in its bid to fend off a rival to its anemia drug Epogen.
 Career Education shares lost $8.08, or 29.3 percent, to $19.50, after it reported a net loss for the second quarter.
 Shares of Career Education's rival, Apollo Group, slid 2.7 percent, or $1.21, to $44.14 on Nasdaq.
 Bonds surged on the jobs report, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note gaining 16/32, to 101 25/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.89 percent, from 4.96 percent late Thursday.
 The dollar fell against most major currencies. Gold prices also slipped.
 A preliminary second-quarter report on productivity and unit labor costs is expected on Tuesday, the day of the Fed meeting, while the Commerce Department's report on the trade deficit for June is scheduled for Thursday. July retail sales are expected on Friday.
 The trade deficit is expected to have widened to $64.4 billion in June from $63.84 billion in May, according to the Reuters poll of economists.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); STOCK OPTIONS (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%) 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



67 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: For Diocese, Picking Bishop Means Facing Diocesan Rift

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
The Rev. Laurie Jean Wurm of All Saints Episcopal Church in Hoboken remembers a moment, eight years ago now, when friends from the richest and poorest sections of the city celebrated the purchase of a vacant lot for a community center among the housing projects. Each person had dipped one hand in paint to decorate the rickety picket fence around the lot; the other hand was raised in prayer. 
 As parishioners and neighbors held this unusual ground-blessing ceremony for the lot, which had emptied the church's coffers, Ms. Wurm, the associate priest at All Saints, recalled a parable in which Jesus talked of the kingdom of God being like a treasure buried in a field. ''God reveals his kingdom when you give up everything you have to become a new community,'' she said. ''We were trying to live radically into the Gospel.'' 
In a way, that moment offers a telling snapshot of the 27,600-member Diocese of Newark as it prepares for what may be the most difficult decision in its 132-year history. The diocese will try to unite its socio-economically, racially and politically diverse members as it prepares for another type of laying on of hands, the consecration of a new bishop. As the church faces an international schism over gay bishops, one of the Newark candidates is a gay priest. The diocese will elect its 10th bishop in September at a gathering of representatives from its 113 congregations. 
 ''I think everybody understands that as important as outreach is, and it's a primary ministry we do as Christians, we need more people,'' said Kim Byham, a member of All Saints, speaking of the widespread hope that the new bishop will help parishes grow and encourage them to reach out to the poor.
 Like many churches in the diocese, All Saints considers itself politically progressive. The congregation is made up largely of young and middle-age professionals who work in Manhattan, though it also includes some families who have made Hoboken home for generations. About 70 percent of its members were not born Episcopalians, Ms. Wurm said, but came to the church through a process of intellectual searching.
 Six candidates are under consideration to head the diocese; one of them, the Rev. Canon Michael Barlowe, is gay. If a majority of delegates, who are selected by each parish, choose Mr. Barlowe on Sept. 23, and if he is approved by the Episcopal Church, based in the United States, the ideological division between the church and the worldwide Anglican Communion, to which it belongs, may split wide open. 
 Relations between the two bodies became strained in 2003 when the Rev. Canon V. Gene Robinson, who is gay, was elected bishop of New Hampshire. That choice offended many of the faster-growing and more traditional dioceses in Africa and South America.
 More recently, six dioceses and some individual parishes in the United States announced plans to break from the Episcopal Church because they reject a church that permits an openly gay bishop and ceremonies for same-sex unions. 
 At the end of June, the Diocese of Newark named the openly gay priest as one of its candidates for bishop, defying a plea for restraint by a vote of the bishops and delegates at the Episcopal Church's triennial General Convention. The selection came only a day after the archbishop of Canterbury, the nominal leader of the world's 77 million Anglicans, proposed a plan that could force the Episcopal Church to renounce gay bishops and the blessings of same-sex unions or lose full membership in the communion. 
 So the selection of a gay bishop in Newark could pose a test of the policy adopted at the convention.
 ''We would discover rather quickly what in the world that means,'' said the Rev. Robert W. Prichard, a professor at Virginia Theological Seminary who wrote ''A History of the Episcopal Church.''
 After the current bishop, the Right Rev. John P. Croneberger, announced in April 2005 that he planned to retire, the Newark diocese did some collective soul-searching and produced a profile of itself in the form of a worship service. 
 What emerged from that process, and from interviews with priests and parishioners in northern New Jersey, was a picture of a diocese where local concerns about attendance and mission, rather than sexual orientation, dominate discussions. 
 Concern about dwindling membership is well founded. Reflecting trends in the national church, the diocese's membership fell to 29,000 in 1990 from 52,000 in 1970, according to the diocesan profile, and it has remained relatively stable since. While average Sunday attendance has decreased 11.8 percent since 2000, donations from parishioners increased 11.5 percent from 2000 to 2004. 
 As of 2000, the diocese included a larger percentage of minorities than the general population of New Jersey: 18 percent of its members are Hispanic, 16 percent are black and 7 percent are Asian. New Jersey was 13.3 percent Hispanic, 13.6 percent black, and 5.7 percent Asian in 2000.
 The diocese covers Bergen, Essex, Hudson, Morris, Passaic, Sussex and Warren Counties, along with Calvary Church, one of its largest parishes, in Summit, Union County.
 All Saints in Hoboken, which was formed by the consolidation of three parishes in 1983, is an example of how the diocese has grappled with the need to close and merge congregations. In the last 33 years, the number of congregations has shrunk 16 percent.
 ''The people who are left are the most committed disciples,'' said Louie Crew, a co-chairman of the diocese's committee that nominated the candidates for bishop. 
 The Diocese of Newark, like the Episcopal Church itself, is proud of its activist history. In 1976, it chose the first African-American dean of any Episcopal cathedral in the United States, and in 1977 it was one of the first dioceses to ordain women. Then in 1989, an assistant bishop, Walter S. Righter, ordained a gay man as a deacon. At that time, Mr. Righter was an assistant to Bishop John S. Spong, himself a maverick. Bishop Righter was accused of heresy for ordaining the deacon but was absolved by an ecclesiastical court in 1996.
 Yet even as the controversy over the election of gay bishops heated up, the profile written by the diocese indicated that more than half of its clergy and almost 40 percent of its lay members said that their greatest need was for a leader who could help congregations grow. 
 ''The controversial issues facing the communion at the moment are quite distant for us when compared with our immediate mission, to help people to become followers of Christ through Bible study and spiritual development programs for adults, outreach to those in need, and creative sharing of Bible stories with children,'' said the Rev. Gray Lesesne. His church in Glen Rock, N.J., also called All Saints, has doubled its average Sunday attendance in the past three years. 
 After a bishop is elected by a majority of both clergy and lay delegates on Sept. 23, the diocese's choice must be approved by a majority of the Episcopal Church's bishops and diocesan governing boards. If the elected bishop is not approved, another election will have to be held. 
 The other nominees include four with a history of working in the diocese: the Rev. Mark Beckwith, a former associate rector of St. Peter's Episcopal Church in Morristown, N.J.; the Right Rev. Dr. Carol Gallagher, assistant bishop in Newark and the first Native American female bishop in the Episcopal Church; the Rev. William A. Potter, the rector of St. Luke's Church in Hope, N.J.; and the Very Rev. Petero Sabune, a former dean of the diocese's cathedral, Trinity and St. Philip's, in Newark. 
 Mr. Barlowe is in charge of congregational development for the Diocese of California and previously led churches in Westfield and Plainfield, N.J. The Rev. William Stokes is rector of St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Delray Beach, Fla.
 Some priests say they worry that no matter who the next bishop is, the world will interpret the choice as politically motivated, either shrinking from or courting controversy. 
 Yet in the face of a potential schism, Ms. Wurm said, ''As terrifying as this time is, I'm so thrilled to be alive in the history of church when they're actually talking about the world and what really matters to people.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Gray Lesesne, above, and the Rev. Laurie Jean Wurm, left, say the Newark Diocese faces more pressing issues than sexual orientation. Louie Crew helped choose the candidates for bishop. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
 (Photos by Aaron Houston for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); APPROVALS (64%) Homosexuality

ORGANIZATION: Episcopal Church; Anglican Communion; Episcopal Church

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%) Michael (Very Rev) Barlowe; Tina Kelley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%); AFRICA (71%); SOUTH AMERICA (65%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



68 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; About New York; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Just Scents and Memories, Wafting on the Breeze

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY. 
E-mail: dabarry@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IF the aroma lingers, it lingers only faintly, clinging by the barest whiff to brick and pavement. Or, perhaps, to the trick of memory.
 More than any other scent in our city of olfactory assault, this fragrance pinpointed a place better than any global satellite system could. Breathing it in, you knew that you were not in Brighton Beach, you were not on City Island, you were not in the Rockaways. You were at the Fulton Fish Market.
 The aroma propelled generations of would-be poets to search thesauruses for words evoking the sea-cigar-fish-sweat bouquet. Whatever the blend, and however noxious some may have found it, it had a nearly physical presence, as much a part of Lower Manhattan as the Brooklyn Bridge or the Woolworth Building, both of which it predated. 
 Last November the fish market ended its 175-year presence along South Street and moved to an antiseptic and more logical location in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx. With this barnacle to development removed, the gradual transformation of the neighborhood into an Old New York outlet mall will quicken.
 The city has no plans to memorialize what took place here forever: no museum, no embrace of what was. Nor did it save anything when the fish people moved to the Bronx. ''There was nothing remotely that could be of value, or serve as a memento,'' says a spokesman for the city's Economic Development Corporation. ''It was all really trash.''
 But what about the smell -- a smell that slapped you upside the head? At the very least, is that still there? Would the recent heat wave, supplemented by the wash of thunderstorms, summon the scent from the brick of the 19th-century structures still standing?
 This supposition -- this hope, really -- prompts a return to a familiar haunt, on a hot day that reduces us all to fish sticks in a frying pan. Down Fulton Street that smells of commerce; past the Strand Bookstore Annex that smells of old words; past the ranting man on Pearl Street who smells of madness. To the water.
 At South Street and Peck Slip, where a haggard woman called South Street Annie would peddle cigarettes, newspapers and other things, a truck pulls up to the Paris Cafe, where fishmongers would attend to throats scraped by broken-glass words. Instead of Nova Scotia salmon or Montauk fluke, the truck is delivering pedigreed ice cream.
 In the old days, anyone walking into the Paris with ice cream would have worn ice cream walking out. But what about the smell? Is that it? That fleeting waft of creature wetness? Or is it just a tug of a breeze towing a hint of the East River?
 NEARBY stands the Best Western Seaport Inn, where the aroma had become the seafaring lodger who never left; who tossed down his duffel bag in the lobby the moment the hotel opened, slipped out of his hip waders, and asked what's for breakfast. 
 ''It started getting into the wallpaper,'' the manager, Z. B. Moham, says. ''And if you don't maintain it well, it becomes even more of a challenge.''
 Employees became accustomed to the smell, he says. But guests seeking seaport authenticity complained about the authentic smell of fish, and the authentic sounds of clattering forklifts and beeping trucks.
 ''But now I'm not getting any more complaints about the smell from guests,'' Mr. Moham says. ''I think it's all been evaporated.'' He says this without wistfulness.
 Across South Street and under the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, there sits a shack with broken windows and an upturned stool. A chalkboard on its small wall records that on Sept. 2, the New Seafood company bought some ice. 
 Nearby looms the vacant New Market Building, new only in the context of the Fulton Fish Market. The building retains just a hint or two that the market was real and not imagined. A business card for Fathers Fish Company; a sign for Fisherman's Pride Calamari; some phrases painted in descending letters on steel girders:
 Red Snapper. Shellfish. Live Lobster.
 The words conjure the people, Vince and Richie and others, who sold the fish on sparkling beds of ice, who were naked without grappling hooks, who froze and sweated and sang and cursed here. Vince is dead now, and Richie is working in the new market, where, he says, South Street Annie arrives each night by car service to sell her wares.
 But that is in the Bronx, a continent away. Here, in the absence, another breeze comes to stir the South Street dead. Yes; yes: fish.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A shack remains as a vestige of the Fulton Fish Market, which has moved from South Street to the Bronx. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 No longer are there any fish at the old Fulton Fish Market. They exist only on signs and in memories. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); WEATHER (77%); WRITERS (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (57%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fulton Fish Market (NYC)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

PERSON: Dan Barry

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



69 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Shiite Rally in Baghdad Supports Hezbollah
Tens of thousands of followers of the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr rallied in Baghdad in support of the Lebanese militia Hezbollah, denouncing Israel and the United States for igniting violence throughout the Middle East. The protesters shouted in unison against what they described as the enemies of all Muslims. PAGE A7

Recalls Hurt Toyota's Image
Just as Toyota appears poised to pass General Motors as the world's largest automaker, its carefully honed image is being sullied by recalls. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1 
 Job Growth Slipped in July
Employers added jobs in July at a slow pace for the fourth consecutive month, and the unemployment rate jumped. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

A Cynical 'Cosi' Opens the Salzburg Festival
To celebrate the 250th anniversary of Mozart's birth, the Salzburg Festival in Austria is presenting all 22 of his operatic works. First: ''Cosi Fan Tutte,'' above, given a more cynical tone. A review by Anthony Tommasini. PAGE B7

THIS WEEKEND

The Plot Against America
''The Looming Tower'' by Lawrence Wright is the story of how a small group of men rose from a tormented civilization to mount a catastrophic assault on the world's mightiest power, even as another group of men and women tried desperately to stop it. A review by Dexter Filkins. BOOK REVIEW

Fashion's Victim
A year ago, Olivier Theyskens was being hailed as the designer to beat. Last month, his fashion house, Rochas, was shut down. What kind of trend is that? Also: AIDS and the southern African psyche. MAGAZINE

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Bernd Uhlig) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (76%); TOYOTA RECALLS (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); RELIGION (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); FASHION DESIGN (69%); FASHION DESIGNERS (64%); BOOK REVIEWS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (93%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (69%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (91%); ISRAEL (91%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); AUSTRIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



70 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Home Builder Expects to Miss Earnings Goals

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The luxury-home builder Hovnanian Enterprises said yesterday that its third-quarter and full-year earnings would fall short of its previous forecasts as a result of slower sales, high cancellation rates and the cost of sales incentives. 
 Hovnanian, based in Red Bank, N.J., said it expected earnings of $1.10 to $1.20 a share for the quarter that ended July 31, down from its previous forecast of $1.40 to $1.50. Analysts on average had forecast $1.41 a share in the period, the third quarter of Hovnanian's fiscal year.
For the year, Hovnanian now expects earnings of $5 to $5.75 a share, down from its previous forecast of $7.20 to $7.40 a share. The reduction in its full-year outlook was the second in recent months by Hovnanian. On May 1, the company cut the outlook from its original forecast for earnings of $8.05 to $8.40 a share.
 Hovnanian's profit warning followed similar moves by most other major homebuilders.
 ''Our anticipated financial results for the remainder of 2006 continue to be negatively impacted by a slower sales pace, high cancellation rates on contracts in backlog that were projected to close this year, and more pronounced use of concessions and incentives, particularly on the resale of those homes which have experienced contract cancellations,'' Hovnanian's chief executive, Ara K. Hovnanian, said in a statement.
 Higher prices and mortgage rates have reduced demand for new homes this year, while investors who bought properties in hopes for a quick gain have flooded the market with properties they are trying to unload.
 Hovnanian, which expects to release third-quarter results early next month, also said it was renegotiating a ''significant number'' of land option contracts and was likely to incur costs related to walking away from those options. It said it was not able to estimate the costs and had not set aside reserves to cover them.
 Stock in Hovnanian fell 47 cents, to $29.05 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) 

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Hovnanian Enterprises Inc

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%)

PERSON: ARA K HOVNANIAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



71 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: A Letter to Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. 

BYLINE: By TERESA TRITCH

 BODY:
Dear Mr. Secretary,
 I applaud you for using your debut speech to acknowledge that ''many Americans simply aren't feeling the benefits'' of economic growth. Though it was a statement of the obvious, it displayed a candor lacking in your predecessor, John Snow.
His cheerleading in the face of economic problems contributed to the decline of Treasury's prestige during the Bush years. A weakened Treasury Department is something the nation can ill afford in this era of daunting economic challenges. In distancing yourself rhetorically from the recent past, you were, for a moment, both off message and on point, a refreshing combination. 
 Unfortunately, it quickly became obvious that you did not intend to put the pressing issues of wage stagnation and income inequality on the agenda, but to nix them as deserving of rigorous analysis and new solutions. You cast the problem as the result of impersonal market forces for which the government bears no responsibility and has little to offer by way of remedy. In true Bush fashion, you said those who suggest otherwise are playing a ''blame game.'' 
 Since the current economic expansion began in late 2001, productivity has soared. So have corporate profits. But, as you noted, relatively modest increases in salaries and wages for the bottom 80 percent of the work force have been eaten up by rising prices. Meanwhile, even among the top 20 percent, only the very richest, about the top 1 percent, have seen significant gains. Actually, their incomes have exploded. The result, according to the latest economic data through 2004, is that the top 1 percent now hold a bigger share of total income than at any time since 1929, except 1999 and 2000, during the stock bubble. But in those two years, everyone's income was rising. Lately, only the rich have been winners. 
 You offered the two usual administration responses to these realities.
 The first is that people move up and down the ladder, so the picture at any point may seem bleaker than it really is. You said that when we read about ''American families earning the median income, let's remember that many of them are on their way up the economic ladder.'' O.K.
 But let's also remember that the real issue concerning mobility is whether there is enough movement to overcome the drag of wage stagnation and income inequality. The answer is clearly no. Moreover, for decades, typical families have gotten ahead only by both spouses working ever more hours. The inequality of the Bush years implies that these trends have only worsened. You were quite right to cheer the economic accomplishments of immigrants and others who work their way up. But let's not use pleasing anecdotes to distract from disturbing evidence. 
 In your speech, you also adhered to the administration view that today's income inequality is mostly related to education; the solution is thus more and better education, which, you noted, is one of President Bush's priorities. A greater focus on education -- ideally, on first-rate public schools -- is essential for many reasons. But as a catchall diagnosis and cure for today's inequality, it is a dangerous oversimplification. 
 You noted in your speech that college graduates have long outearned less-educated workers. But you didn't mention that the returns appear to be diminishing. Mr. Bush's ''Economic Report of the President'' for 2006 shows that average annual earnings of college graduates fell by 5 percent from 2000 to 2004. In that time, the gap between the average yearly pay of a college graduate and a high school graduate shrank, and Department of Labor data shows that many college graduates are doing jobs that used to require only a high school diploma. 
 This does not argue for less education. But it does indicate that more college for more Americans is no silver bullet for income inequality. In a recent Foreign Affairs magazine, Alan Blinder, the Princeton economist and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, challenged those who ''blithely assume'' that the labor market in a globalized economy will continue to be divided between the highly educated and the less educated. ''In the future, how children are educated may prove to be more important than how much,'' Mr. Blinder said. ''But educational specialists have not even begun to think about this problem.''
 Are they likely to start thinking about it if people of your stature oversimplify the challenge? 
 Public education, like the progressive income tax, Social Security, the minimum wage and other labor protections, are pillars of what the economist Frank Levy once called ''the nation's equalizing institutions.'' Rising income inequality has gone hand in hand with deliberate government attempts -- some successful, others not -- to weaken many of those national institutions and to replace them with serial tax cuts and increasing privatization. Moreover, the Bush administration has failed to champion new institutions for the new challenges we face.
 I agree with you that the answer to economic dislocation is ''not new trade restraints.'' But you will never develop a consensus for globalization if it comes wrapped in a package that includes wage stagnation and income inequality. For that reason -- and for basic fairness -- equalizing institutions should be strengthened, not weakened.
 That requires government leaders willing to build the institutions -- and to recognize that if the Bush years have shown us anything, it's that broad prosperity does not flow automatically from economic growth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (66%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Income; United States Economy

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%) Teresa Tritch; Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



72 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-8

30 Killed in Israeli Strikes Far From Hezbollah Areas
Israeli airstrikes destroyed four bridges along Lebanon's main north-south highway in the Christian heartland north of Beirut and killed more than 30 people far from territory controlled by Hezbollah, which is locked in conflict with Israel. A1

After a series of pronouncements about an ''elemental struggle'' with radical Islam in an ''arc of extremism,'' Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain delayed a Caribbean vacation, saying the coming days would be crucial in the diplomatic effort to secure a cease-fire in Lebanon. 
 A6

A Cautious Approach to Iran
Despite suspicions that Iran is involved in the current conflict between Israel and Hezbollah, the Bush administration, aware of how thin the military is already spread and heeding lessons learned from the Iraq war, has carefully stopped short of accusing Iran of inciting the crisis, analysts said. A7

The United States has imposed sanctions on seven foreign companies for providing Iran with materials that could be used to make unconventional weapons or cruise or ballistic missile systems. A3

Details Emerge in Rape of Iraqi
The case against American soldiers accused of raping and killing a 14 year-old Iraqi girl offers a glimpse of an Army unit numbed by combat stress and left at a deadly security post without experienced leaders -- a point that will be key in building a defense, lawyers in the case say. A1

Tens of thousands of followers of the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr rallied in Baghdad in support of the Lebanese militia Hezbollah, denouncing Israel and the United States for igniting violence throughout the Middle East. A7

A military prosecutor called four American infantrymen ''war criminals'' for killing three Iraqi men in a raid in May after handcuffing them, ''cutting them loose, telling them to run and shooting them.'' A8

Rice Pledges Support to Cubans
In a message televised in Cuba, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice offered the support of the United States in a transition to democracy while promising to respect the sovereignty of the Cuban people. A4

Rivals Now Partners in Ukraine
Ukraine's Parliament approved Viktor F. Yanukovich as prime minister, creating an awkward balance of power between him and President Viktor A. Yushchenko, who defeated him in 2004 during what became known as the Orange Revolution. A3

Report Faults Indian Ex-Official
A nine-month investigation by India found a former foreign minister guilty of misconduct in the United Nations oil-for-food program in Iraq, the Indian news media reported. A8

Election Observers Convicted
A court in Belarus convicted four election observers whose arrests in February foreshadowed a broad crackdown after the disputed re-election of President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko. A3

NATIONAL A8-11; 14

Drug Problems Escalate After Hurricane Katrina
Law enforcement officials in New Orleans and Houston are struggling to keep up as the region's drug trade merges to a greater extent than ever before, adding to the murder rates in both cities. A1

Shooting Suspects Arrested
Officials in Phoenix said they had arrested two men as suspects in a yearlong series of shootings that killed 6 people, wounded 18 more and terrified the metropolitan area. A9

Ex-Aide to Bush Pleads Guilty
 A former White House policy adviser, Claude A. Allen, who was charged with multiple counts of shoplifting, pleaded guilty as part of an agreement under which he will pay a fine and make partial restitution. A9 

Military Didn't Lie, Agency Says
The Defense Department's watchdog agency said it had no evidence that senior Pentagon commanders had intentionally provided false testimony to the Sept. 11 commission about the military's actions on the morning of the terrorist attacks. A10

Slot Machine Is Too Generous
At the Caesars Indiana casino in Elizabeth, Ind., a faulty slot machine erroneously paid out nearly a half-million dollars to an unknown number of gamblers. A9

Judge Rules in Favor of Agents
A federal judge has ruled that law enforcement agents did not single out South Asian convenience store owners during a sting operation in Atlanta designed to catch clerks who were illegally selling the household ingredients used to make methamphetamine. A14

Beliefs A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Senators' Support for War Yields Different Reactions
Senators Joseph I. Lieberman and Hillary Rodham Clinton both voted for the use of military force in Iraq, but while Mr. Lieberman is struggling against an antiwar challenger in his primary, Mrs. Clinton has suffered few serious consequences. Some believe that is because she has distanced herself from her initial vote. A1

With only three days left to reverse the course of the Democratic primary race, people affiliated with Mr. Lieberman's campaign say he is scaling back on an ambitious ground operation that his supporters hoped would pull him past his challenger, Ned Lamont. B1

A Plan to Preserve Power
Consolidated Edison employees, police officers, firefighters and other city workers fanned out across the city to ask residents to reduce power and to preserve electricity. The mobilization was part of a Bloomberg administration plan that was created after the blackout of 2003. B1

OBITUARIES C10

Arthur Lee
The leader of Love, a pioneering 1960's psychedelic rock band, he was 61. C10

ARTS B7-16

PBS Controversy
The Public Broadcasting Service is receiving thousands of complaints, mostly from parents, over the PBS Kids Sprout network's firing of Melanie Martinez, the host of ''The Good Night Show,'' after learning that she appeared years ago in two videos spoofing public service announcements advocating teenage sexual abstinence. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-9

Job Growth Slow
Employers added jobs at a slow pace for the fourth straight month and the unemployment rate rose, the government reported, offering the strongest evidence yet of a weakening economy. C1

Apple's Shares Fall
Apple Computer's shares fell on the news that company had uncovered further troubles with its handling of stock options that will probably require it to revise its financial statements for years. C3

Toyota Recalls Increase
Toyota of Japan, which appeared poised to pass General Motors to become the world's largest automaker, is having a growing problem with vehicle recalls that are damaging its carefully honed image. C4

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: Listening to the lawyers; California leads on warming; a letter from Teresa Tritch to the Treasury secretary.

Columns: Maureen Dowd.

Bridge B15
Crossword B13
TV Listings B16
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); WAR CRIMES (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ARMIES (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); MISCONDUCT (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (73%); MILITARY COURTS (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); MILITARY OFFENSES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); RELIGION (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ARMED FORCES (68%); LAWYERS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (66%); ELECTION MONITORING (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (52%); APPROVALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (93%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (56%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (55%); TONY BLAIR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); LEBANON (94%); IRAQ (94%); UKRAINE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CUBA (91%); BELARUS (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



73 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: To Help Israel, Help Syria

BYLINE: By Andrew Tabler. 
Andrew Tabler is a fellow of the Institute of Current World Affairs and the editor in chief of Syria Today magazine.

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria 

 BODY:
IT is hardly surprising that when discussing the Lebanon crisis, President Bush tends to couple Syria's role with Iran's. After all, Damascus and Tehran have spent the better part of the last year deepening their ties, culminating in a June military cooperation agreement. But the United States may well have leverage in Syria that it lacks in Iran. If it is true, as it is reported to be, that Washington seeks to drive a wedge between Hezbollah's two backers, the Bush administration would do well to modify its democracy agenda to include support for Syrian reform.
 Syria has long used its influence to make or break political deals in Lebanon, and the proposed international cease-fire plan will be no exception. In all likelihood, the Israeli offensive in southern Lebanon will not disarm Hezbollah, which, even under the noses of vulnerable peacekeepers and a weak and untested Lebanese army, could easily redeploy its long-range rockets north and into the Bekaa Valley, near the Syrian border. From there the missiles could still reach Israel, and Hezbollah could be re-supplied through the smuggler's den that is the 233-mile-long Lebanese-Syrian frontier. 
Only an Israeli pullout from the Golan Heights would entice Damascus to help seal off Hezbollah-controlled areas and ensure that the fighters are eventually disarmed. But negotiations for that could take years. Meanwhile, hard-liners, buoyed by Syria's recent alliance with nuclear-hungry Iran, are now in favor in Damascus, while reformers scramble for cover and hope that the assistance their programs receive from the European Union, the United Nations and the World Bank won't cast doubt on their loyalty.
 If Washington wants to break President Bashar al-Assad from Tehran, it should promote economic liberalism as the thin end of the wedge. It should support efforts to combat corruption, cut red tape, and promote transparency and the activities of nongovernmental organizations. Germany has already adopted a similar approach. And here is why an American version might work. 
 Syria's economic future -- and that of the Assad regime -- is in jeopardy. The country is weighed down by old-style state socialism and plagued by issues that breed Islamic extremism, including high birth rates, growing unemployment and one of the lowest productivity rates in the world.
 State expenditures -- most notably military spending -- are financed by oil production, which is in rapid decline. High oil prices have given the regime a temporary lease on life, but the reprieve won't last: Syria will be a net importer of oil within four years. That is likely to change the state's relationship with its growing private sector. 
 At the moment, tax rates are high, but the private sector seldom pays them, and in return accepts not having a say in how it is governed. When oil revenues dry up, the state will need to spread its tentacles into the private sector in search of cash, at which point it will undoubtedly face a trade-off that will force it to cede some political rights to its citizens. 
 Unlike in Iran, with which the United States does not have diplomatic relations, there is an American Embassy in Damascus that can coordinate assistance to Syria's reformers. Given the mistrust between the two governments, however, America's vibrant private sector should lead the way. It can do this by sharing its expertise in building a strong and transparent market economy. 
 This would increase American credibility in Syria without violating American sanctions, which ban American exports, certain banking transactions and direct flights to Syria, but not the exchange of knowledge. If Damascus demonstrates its ability to rein in and disarm Hezbollah, American economic aid could follow.
 Yes, American support for Syrian reform might perpetuate President Assad's grip on power in the short term, but over time it would erode Syria's reasons for backing Iran and Hezbollah. It would undermine the widespread and increasingly corrosive suspicion in the region that Washington's democracy agenda is a cover for an Israeli-inspired plan to spread chaos in the Arab world, so as to break up Arab states and neuter their threat to Israel. And it would finally demonstrate that the United States is committed to spreading liberty, even in the face of great adversity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); HEZBOLLAH (91%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); ARMIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); TRENDS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); PEACEKEEPING (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); SMUGGLING (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); CORRUPTION (62%); PRODUCTIVITY (60%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); RELIGION (50%) United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%) Hezbollah

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%) Andrew Tabler; George W (Pres) Bush; Bashar Al- (Pres) Assad

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (96%); LEBANON (96%); ISRAEL (95%); IRAN (88%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (53%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%) Syria; Israel; Iran; Lebanon; Syria

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



74 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Another Ex-General Re Official Is Under Investigation by U.S. 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Berkshire Hathaway, the billionaire Warren E. Buffett's investment vehicle, said yesterday that another former executive of its reinsurance unit was being investigated by the Justice Department regarding the possible manipulation of earnings at the American International Group. 
 The executive, Christopher Garand, one of four former General Re executives sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission in February, was the only one not indicted by the Justice Department. Berkshire said in a regulatory filing that Mr. Garand was told in July that he was the focus of the Justice investigation.
He was a senior vice president in charge of finite reinsurance, a type of contract that regulators say can be used to distort earnings. The S.E.C. filed suits accusing him, the three colleagues, and an ex-A.I.G. official of helping A.I.G. devise questionable transactions in 2000 and 2001 that inflated its reported reserves for claims. The other four are to go to trial in March.
 Mr. Garand left General Re last August. His lawyer, Robert Cleary, could not be reached for comment.
 The others indicted are Ronald Ferguson, General Re's former chief; Elizabeth Monrad, its former chief financial officer; Robert Graham, who had been the assistant general counsel; and Christian Milton, former head of reinsurance at A.I.G..
 Berkshire also reported yesterday that its second-quarter profit rose 62 percent on investment gains and higher interest income from its insurance units.
 The company earned $2.35 billion, or $1,522 a share, for the quarter, in contrast to $1.45 billion, or $941 a share, in the year-earlier period, according to a Berkshire report filed with the S.E.C.
 Revenue rose 33 percent, to $24.19 billion. 
 Berkshire, which relies on insurance for about half of its profit, benefited from higher interest rates after putting policyholders' premiums in short-term investments. Income from interest and dividends rose 34 percent to $782 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REINSURANCE (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LAWYERS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); FINANCIAL REINSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) 

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (85%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) Berkshire Hathaway; Justice Department; General Reinsurance Corp; American International Group

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (85%); BRK.A (NYSE) (85%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (85%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (74%) Christopher Garand

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006



75 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: August 6, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 		Weeks		This	On		Week	List	FICTION		 	 	1	5	THE MEMORY KEEPER'S DAUGHTER, by Kim Edwards. (Penguin, $14.) A doctor's decision to secretly send his newborn daughter, who has Down syndrome, to an institution haunts everyone involved.		 	 	2	1	CHILL FACTOR, by Sandra Brown. (Pocket, $9.99.) A successful magazine editor is trapped in her remote cabin with a man believed to be a serial killer. 		 	 	3	11	THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA, by Lauren Weisberger. (Broadway, $13.95; Anchor, $7.99.) A young woman gets a job at a fashion magazine, and a difficult boss. 		 	 	4	4	THE LINCOLN LAWYER, by Michael Connelly. (Warner, $7.99.) A criminal defense attorney takes a case that proves more dangerous than he expected. 		 	 	5	8	4TH OF JULY, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Warner Vision, $9.99.) Detective Lindsay Boxer, a member of the Women's Murder Club, looks into a series of killings while she herself is on trial.		 	 	6	8	BLUE SMOKE, by Nora Roberts. (Jove, $7.99.) An arson investigator whose family suffered a fire when she was a child is menaced by a sociopath.		 	 	7	17	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Anchor, $14.95 and $7.99; Broadway special illustrated edition, $22.95.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	8	4	ON THE WAY TO THE WEDDIng, by Julia Quinn. (Avon, $7.99.) Gregory Bridgerton is waiting for ''the one,'' but when he finds her, complications follow. 		 	 	9	4	CHILL OF FEAR, by Kay Hooper. (Bantam, $7.50.) Haunted by a murder that took place 20 years earlier, an F.B.I. agent heads to Tennessee to try to solve it. 		 	 	10	5	ELEVEN ON TOP, by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $7.99.) As she tries to quit bounty hunting, Stephanie Plum realizes a lunatic is stalking her.		 	 	11	4	MEMORY IN DEATH, by J.D. Robb. (Berkley, $7.99.) Lt. Eve Dallas tracks the killer of a woman who blackmailed her; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	12	148	ANGELS & DEMONS, by Dan Brown. (Washington Square, $15; Pocket, $9.99 and $7.99.) A scholar tries to save the Vatican from the machinations of an underground society.		 	 	13*	94	THE KITE RUNNER, by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead, $15.95 and $14.) An Afghan-American returns to Kabul to learn how a friend has fared under the Taliban.		 	 	14	2	KILLING TIME, by Linda Howard. (Ballantine, $7.99.) After a time capsule in Kentucky is dug up, someone starts killing those who contributed items to it.		 	 	15	3	LOOKING FOR PEYTON PLACE, by Barbara Delinsky. (Pocket, $9.99.) A writer returns to her New England hometown to investigate her mother's death.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	1	5	1776, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $18.) An account of America's founding year, by the Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer of John Adams, focusing on the inexperienced George Washington and the heroic citizen soldiers.		 	 	2	8	AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH, by Al Gore. (Rodale, $21.95.) The former vice president sounds an alarm about global warming in this companion volume to the movie of the same title.		 	 	3	27	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $9.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.		 	 	4	28	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $14.) The author, a contributor to MSNBC.com, recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another.		 	 	5	127	THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $14.95.) The tale of an architect and a serial killer, linked by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.		 	 	6	75	IN COLD BLOOD, by Truman Capote. (Vintage, $14.) A savage murder in Kansas in 1959 and its consequences.		 	 	7	102	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A journalist's study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	8	156	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Broadway, $12.95; Anchor, $6.99.) The author tells of his visits to his old college mentor.		 	 	9	102	RUNNING WITH SCISSORS, by Augusten Burroughs. (Picador, $14.) In the 1970's, a young boy lives with a crazy psychiatrist in a squalid household.		 	 	10	6	THE PLACES IN BETWEEN, by Rory Stewart. (Harvest/Harcourt, $14.) The author recounts his walk across Afghanistan in the dead of winter.		 	 	11*	197	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $16.95.) An argument that Western dominance is due to geographical advantages.		 	 	12	39	A MILLION LITTLE PIECES, by James Frey. (Anchor, $14.95.) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this memoir contains numerous fabrications. 		 	 	13	14	EATS, SHOOTS & LEAVES, by Lynne Truss. (Gotham, $11.) An Englishwoman expounds on the use and misuse of punctuation marks.		 	 	14	22	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Plume, $15.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 	15*	110	READING LOLITA IN TEHRAN, by Azar Nafisi. (Random House, $13.95.) A memoir of a teacher's life in Iran, centered on a women's reading group.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	1	16	CESAR'S WAY, by Cesar Millan with Melissa Jo Peltier. (Harmony, $24.95.) The star of the television show ''Dog Whisperer'' offers insight into canine psychology and help solving problems.		 	 	2	83	YOUR BEST LIFE NOW, by Joel Osteen. (Warner Faith, $19.99.) A faith-based approach to living with enthusiasm. ()		 	 	3	182	THE PURPOSE-DRIVEN LIFE, by Rick Warren. (Zondervan, $19.99.) The meaning of life through God. ()		 	 	4	4	SECRETS OF THE MILLIONAIRE MIND, by T. Harv Eker. (HarperBusiness, $19.95.) Identifying and then changing your ''money blueprint.'' ()		 	 	5	9	THE ALPHABET OF MANLINESS, by Maddox. (Citadel, $15.95.) Ribald humor for men, based on the author's Web site.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	1	275	WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING, by Heidi Murkoff, Arlene Eisenberg and Sandee Hathaway. (Workman, $13.95.) Advice for parents-to-be. ()		 	 	2	288	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $16.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich. ()		 	 	3	14	EXPRESS LANE MEALS, by Rachael Ray. (Clarkson Potter, $18.95.) Quick and easy recipes, and what ingredients to shop for.		 	 	4	57	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET, by Arthur Agatston. (St. Martin's, $14.95 and $7.99.) A weight-loss plan devised by a Miami cardiologist. 		 	 	5	30	365: NO REPEATS, by Rachael Ray. (Clarkson Potter, $19.95.) A year's worth of dinner recipes.		 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended July 22, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (77%); HOMICIDE (76%); WOMEN (75%); ARSON (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); DOWN SYNDROME (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (71%); LAWYERS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); TALIBAN (66%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAN BROWN (76%); JAMES PATTERSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (65%) UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



76 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: August 6, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1		1	PHANTOM, by Terry Goodkind. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $29.95.) The 11th volume of the ''Sword of Truth'' fantasy series.		 	 	 	2	1	2	ANGELS FALL, by Nora Roberts. (Putnam, $25.95.) When a chef from Boston, now living in Wyoming, witnesses a murder, the locals won't believe her.		 	 	 	3	2	5	TWELVE SHARP, by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $26.95.) The bounty hunter Stephanie Plum must find a killer and rescue a kidnapped child.		 	 	 	4		1	PEGASUS DESCENDING, by James Lee Burke. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) In the 15th Dave Robicheaux novel, the Louisiana detective pursues interrelated cases that lead back to the killing of his best friend 25 years earlier.		 	 	 	5		1	THE RUINS, by Scott Smith. (Knopf, $24.95.) Two young American couples on vacaton in the Yucatan confront a horrible menace.		 	 	 	6	3	4	COMING OUT, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $20.) An attorney's household is thrown into chaos when her daughters receive an invitation to a debutante ball.		 	 	 	7	4	3	CAN'T WAIT TO GET TO HEAVEN, by Fannie Flagg. (Random House, $25.95.) A return to Elmwood Springs, Mo., the setting of Flagg's novel ''Standing in the Rainbow.''		 	 	 	8	5	2	BREAK NO BONES, by Kathy Reichs. (Scribner, $25.95.) The forensic anthropologist Temperance Brennan finds a fresh skeleton at an Indian burial ground in South Carolina.		 	 	 	9	6	12	BEACH ROAD, by James Patterson and Peter de Jonge. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) An East Hampton lawyer becomes involved in a highly publicized trial.		 	 	 	10		1	SLEEPING WITH FEAR, by Kay Hooper. (Bantam, $25.) A psychic F.B.I. agent, investigating possible occult activity in South Carolina, comes under attack by someone who can control dark forces. The last volume in Hooper's ''Fear'' trilogy.		 	 	 	11	8	8	THE HUSBAND, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $27.) A man whose wife is kidnapped has 60 hours to come up with a huge ransom.		 	 	 	12	11	5	WATER FOR ELEPHANTS, by Sara Gruen. (Algonquin, $23.95.) A young man -- and an elephant -- save a Depression-era circus.		 	 	 	13	7	4	DANSE MACABRE, by Laurell K. Hamilton. (Berkley, $25.95.) Complications arise when the vampire hunter Anita Blake discovers that she may be pregnant.		 	 	 	14	10	4	BLACK ORDER, by James Rollins. (Morrow, $24.95.) A special military unit investigates worldwide mysteries that all originate with a secret Nazi experiment.		 	 	 	15	12	4	COVER OF NIGHT, by Linda Howard. (Ballantine, $25.95.) A young widow fights back when armed intruders storm her bed-and-breakfast in rural Idaho.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	40	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	2	4	68	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	3	2	2	CONSERVATIVES WITHOUT CONSCIENCE, by John W. Dean. (Viking, $25.95.) The authoritarian character of contemporary conservative beliefs and attitudes.		 	 	 	4	3	5	THE ONE PERCENT DOCTRINE, by Ron Suskind. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) An investigation of the Bush administration's strategic thinking and of the role of ideology and personality in the decision to go to war.		 	 	 	5	5	7	GODLESS, by Ann Coulter. (Crown Forum, $27.95.) The columnist argues that liberalism is a religion with sacraments, a creation myth and a clergy.		 	 	 	6	6	67	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to the legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	7	7	11	MAYFLOWER, by Nathaniel Philbrick. (Viking, $29.95.) How America began, from the author of ''In the Heart of the Sea.''		 	 	 	8	10	9	DISPATCHES FROM THE EDGE, by Anderson Cooper. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) The CNN correspondent describes covering the tsunami in Sri Lanka, the war in Iraq and Hurricane Katrina.		 	 	 	9	9	11	MYTHS, LIES, AND DOWNRIGHT STUPIDITY, by John Stossel. (Hyperion, $24.95.) The ''20/20'' anchor questions conventional wisdom.		 	 	 	10	13	2	THE LONG TAIL, by Chris Anderson. (Hyperion, $24.95.) How the Internet has changed business so that its future requires ''selling less of more.''		 	 	 	11	8	2	FEEDING THE MONSTER, by Seth Mnookin. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) How the Red Sox finally did it.		 	 	 	12	11	9	WISDOM OF OUR FATHERS, by Tim Russert. (Random House, $22.95.) The host of ''Meet the Press'' presents readers' letters about their fathers in response to his book ''Big Russ and Me.''		 	 	 	13		1	THE LANGUAGE OF GOD, by Francis S. Collins. (Free Press, $26.) The head of the Human Genome Project argues that faith in God and faith in science can coexist.		 	 	 	14	12	6	HEAT, by Bill Buford. (Knopf, $25.95.) An editor changes his life by apprenticing in a restaurant kitchen.		 	 	 	15		10	THE OMNIVORE'S DILEMMA, by Michael Pollan. (Penguin Press, $26.95.) Tracking dinner from the soil to the plate, a journalist juggles appetite and conscience.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended July 22, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

THE KEEP, by Jennifer Egan. (Knopf, $23.95.) Old grievances drive the plot of this novel, set in a castle and a prison. Egan deftly weaves threads of sordid realism and John Fowles-like magic.
 TALK TALK, by T. Coraghessan Boyle. (Viking, $25.95.) The heroine of Boyle's latest novel goes in cross-country pursuit of an identity thief.
 FRANCIS CRICK: Discoverer of the Genetic Code, by Matt Ridley. (Atlas/HarperCollins, $19.95.) The life and work of the man who, along with James Watson, identified DNA's structure.
 GUANTANAMO AND THE ABUSE OF PRESIDENTIAL POWER, by Joseph Margulies. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A civil rights lawyer indicts the Bush administration's detention policies.
 THE END OF IRAQ: How American Incompetence Created a War Without End, by Peter W. Galbraith. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) An authority on the Kurds advocates partitioning Iraq. 
 THE FOREIGNER'S GIFT: The Americans, the Arabs, and the Iraqis in Iraq, by Fouad Ajami. (Free Press, $26.) Ajami, an unofficial Bush adviser, stresses Sunni hostility toward Shiite power. 
 THE HORIZONTAL WORLD: Growing Up Wild in the Middle of Nowhere, by Debra Marquart. (Counterpoint, $24.) A memoir of a daughter's escape from her family's North Dakota farm. 
 THE COTTAGERS, by Marshall N. Klimasewiski. (Norton, $24.95.) In this novel of grim insights, a vacationer goes missing on Vancouver Island. 
 THE LIBRETTIST OF VENICE: The Remarkable Life of Lorenzo Da Ponte, Mozart's Poet, Casanova's Friend, and Italian Opera's Impresario in America, by Rodney Bolt. (Bloomsbury, $29.95.) Da Ponte wrote the texts for ''Le Nozze di Figaro,'' ''Don Giovanni'' and ''Cosi Fan Tutte.'' 
 MAMMALS, by Pierre Merot. Translated by Frank Wynne. (Black Cat/Grove/Atlantic, paper, $13.) An improbably charismatic ne'er-do-well is the narrator of Merot's darkly comic novel. 
 GRIEF, by Andrew Holleran. (Hyperion, $19.95.) Holleran's middle-aged gay hero mourns his mother, his empty life and a generation's agony. 
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MURDER (76%); FORENSICS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



77 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Harvard or Bust

BYLINE: By EUGENIE ALLEN

 BODY:
Eugenie Allen has contributed articles about family life to Time and The New York Times.
Eugenie Allen has contributed articles about family life to Time and The New York Times.
THE OVERACHIEVERS
 The Secret Lives of Driven Kids.
 By Alexandra Robbins.
 439 pp. Hyperion. $24.95.
I was sick of college talk. Sick of reciting the names of the schools my 16-year-old has visited, which ones she liked best, and why. Sick of listening to other parents do the same. Sick of discussing the finer points of the new SAT, class rank and recommendation letters. Sick of the chatter about Opal Mehta, the fictitious Harvard applicant and heroine of a recent plagiarized novel. So sick of it all that I was considering a ban on extrafamilial college talk from now until spring, when my daughter will finally belong to someone's class of 2011. 
 Then I read ''The Overachievers,'' which is almost nothing but college talk. Alexandra Robbins profiles eight students at Walt Whitman High School in Bethesda, Md., in-depth over three semesters in 2004 and 2005; they talk about college. She pans wide to include overachievers across the country; they talk about college. She consults experts on college. She surveys the literature about college. She calls for new ways of thinking about college, preparing for college, and applying to college. I couldn't get enough of it. 
 ''The Overachievers'' is part soap opera, part social treatise. Robbins identifies her main characters -- four juniors, three seniors and one alum who's a college freshman -- by how they're perceived at Whitman. Then she stands back and lets them prove otherwise. Julie, the Superstar, is so plagued by self-doubt that she worries she will be voted ''Most Awkward'' by her senior classmates. Sam, the Teacher's Pet, runs out of time to find and interview a Muslim for an assignment in his Modern World class, so he makes one up and writes a fake transcript of their conversation. And A.P. Frank, who took a grueling all-Advanced Placement course load his junior and senior years of high school, wants nothing more than a decent social life when he gets to college. I was so hooked on their stories that I wanted to vote for my favorite contestant at the end of every chapter.
 The book is less effective when Robbins leaves Whitman to gather supporting anecdotes from students in other parts of the country. After a while the kids at New Trier High School in Winnetka, Ill., sound like the kids in Kentucky, who sound like the kids in Vermont, who sound like the kids in New Mexico. There's also a detour into the cutthroat world of private schools in Manhattan that would have worked better as the seed for another book. Nice coup, sitting in on interviews and admission decisions at the Trinity School, but can we please get back to Bethesda? 
 When ''The O.A.'' is on location, it reads like very good young-adult fiction, thanks to its winning cast, its surprising plot twists -- the Stealth Overachiever turns out to be the kid you'd least expect -- and its pushy parents, including one truly disturbed mother. In one funny-sad scene, the Popular Girl, torn between Penn and Duke, stands at the post office with acceptance letters to each. She finally mails one, then decides she's made a terrible mistake and begs the clerk to retrieve her letter. Twice. In another episode, it takes three hours of instant messaging for Julie, the Superstar (SAT verbal 760), and Derek, another senior (verbal 800), to establish that they like each other -- but only as friends.
 Robbins has a lot in common with her young subjects. A 1998 Yale graduate and the author of the 2004 best seller ''Pledged,'' about sororities, she graduated from Whitman a decade before she began researching this book, and she quietly admits that she, too, is an overachiever. Robbins is also a good writer, and she must be a good listener, because she more than delivers on the promise of ''secret lives'' in the subtitle. Her main characters confide in her about everything from cheating and test anxiety to underage drinking and self-mutilation. (Curiously, there's no sex to speak of in ''The Overachievers''; it must be the only area in which these kids don't outperform their peers.) Robbins handles these private struggles with a minimum of fuss, offering economical, generally dispassionate digests on often disturbing topics. 
 Occasionally, however, she weighs in on education policies and parenting practices that she considers especially egregious, including the No Child Left Behind Act (because it favors test scores over teaching); grade inflation in high school and college (she's surprised teachers and administrators often cave to student and parental pressure); and pre-professional sports for children as young as 8 (she worries about their mental and physical well-being). At the end of the book, Robbins offers sensible suggestions for reform: elementary schools should reinstate recess and high schools should drop class rank, she argues, while colleges should scrap the SAT and eliminate early decision. In Robbins's utopia, where children and adolescents are free to learn at their own pace, without the burden of standardized tests, carefree Huck Finn would have a better shot at the Ivy League than overprepped Opal Mehta. Better still, Huck would choose a smaller, more nurturing school because he would know that name-brand schools aren't all they're cracked up to be, which is another of Robbins's arguments.
 A quibble: Overachievers or not, the kids in this book are way too well-spoken. Anyone who has tried to have a conversation with a teenager recently will doubt that this series of complete sentences, from an interview with a senior in California, was uttered by a member of the same species: ''I was definitely very stressed, and I worked very hard. Long nights studying, job shadows, college classes, internships, SAT's, sports, all at the same time as balancing a social life. This could be why students do things to such extremes. There is a sense of urgency and pressure.'' Meanwhile, one after another, the Whitman students offer long, articulate confessions to a ''friend'' who seems not to be their contemporary and who surely must be Robbins herself. The device wears thin. And it's disconcerting to learn, in the endnotes, that Robbins encouraged the Superstar to keep a journal ''about moments she felt were significant to her high school experience.'' Was the author already thinking ahead to how it would look in print? (The girl happens to write beautifully.)
 But Robbins gets the big picture right. Yes, this is a terrible time to be applying to college. With too many talented students vying for too few spots at a handful of top schools, we shouldn't be surprised that many are buckling under the pressure to be perfect. There are signs that the tide is turning, starting with colleges themselves. Fed up with the hegemony of the College Board and the predations of some private college counselors, more schools are making the submission of SAT scores optional, and adding application questions that invite students to talk about what they do for fun. From a Stanford admissions officer: ''It's that idea of packaging and coaching, students trying so hard to make themselves stand out -- we're not able to see how they really are. There are no life experiences that would get you into Stanford. It's not what you've done; it's how you've experienced whatever has happened to you.''
 Some readers will undoubtedly mine ''The Overachievers'' for hints on how the Teacher's Pet got into Middlebury early, or why a student with the ideal transcript was wait-listed at Yale. They will miss the point. These kids may have learned how to play the game, but as Robbins makes clear, it's time to change the rules.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); FAMILY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); LITERATURE (74%); PLAGIARISM (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); TRANSCRIPTS (61%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Eugenie Allen; Alexandra Robbins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



78 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 6311 words

HEADLINE: The Education of Richard Hofstadter

BYLINE: By Sam Tanenhaus. 
Sam Tanenhaus is the editor of the Book Review.

 BODY:
RICHARD HOFSTADTER
 An Intellectual Biography.
 By David S. Brown.
 291 pp. The University of Chicago Press. $27.50.
At his death in 1970, Richard Hofstadter was probably this country's most renowned historian, best known as the originator of the ''consensus$(2$) school, whose measured siftings of the American past de-emphasized conflict -- whether economic, regional or ideological -- and highlighted instead the nation's long tradition of shared ideas, principles and values.
 This school had a limited shelf life, but Hofstadter's work has outlived it, owing to the clarity and nuance of his thought and his talent for drawing parallels between disparate episodes in our national narrative, almost always bringing the argument around to the concerns of midcentury America. ''I know it is risky,'' he acknowledged in 1960, ''but I still write history out of my engagement with the present.'' The gamble, of course, was whether questions so pressing in his time would continue to engage later generations. To a remarkable extent they have, and so Hofstadter remains relevant -- in some respects more relevant than ever. 
 This isn't to say he was the most enduring historian of his time, but rather the one who came closest to being his generation's exemplary intellectual. Others, like Bernard Bailyn and C. Vann Woodward, probably left a deeper imprint on the profession; or, like Arthur Schlesinger Jr., had greater influence on the important events of the day. But no other historian wrote so penetratingly about the politics of the moment, and at the same time none did more to establish pragmatic liberalism as a kind of unofficial, if constantly imperiled, public doctrine during the peak years of the cold war. Indeed so immersed was Hofstadter in the complications of postwar liberalism that he came finally to dramatize them, not only in his work but also in his life. This is the story David S. Brown tells in ''Richard Hofstadter: An Intellectual Biography.'' Brown, who teaches history at Elizabethtown College in Pennsylvania, describes his intelligent and stimulating book as ''an extended conversation with the formal writings of Richard Hofstadter.'' That's too modest. Brown's interviews with Hofstadter's colleagues and students and his careful reading of Hofstadter's copious writings, including unpublished manuscripts and letters, help situate the work in the context of Hofstadter's short life (he died, at age 54, of leukemia) and also within the larger tumult of his period.
 Brown admirably balances respect for his subject with critical distance and persuasively makes the case that the ambiguousness of Hofstadter's legacy is inseparable from his continuing interest. There is, first, the ambiguity of his professional identity. Though he held a distinguished Ivy League professorship and wrote important books on higher education and on historiography, Hofstadter characterized himself as being ''as much, maybe more, of an essayist than a historian.'' Some of his most famous formulations, for example on ''status politics'' and ''the paranoid style in American politics,'' came in think pieces first published in general interest magazines, and were written in elegant, ironic prose modeled on that of social observers like H. L. Mencken, Thorstein Veblen and Edmund Wilson. 
 Hofstadter's books were also long-form essays, and they survive today as bravura performances rather than as instances of high scholarship. His signature works, including his two Pulitzer Prize winners, ''The Age of Reform'' and ''Anti-Intellectualism in American Life,'' are virtually devoid of primary research -- drudgery best left, in his view, to ''archive rats.'' For this reason he remained, to some in the profession, a kind of outlier; and his interpretations, for all their originality and force, have proved more vulnerable to revisionism than the closely documented studies of Bailyn and Woodward. Then again, as Brown points out, Hofstadter's books consciously ''reflected the personal interests and ideological concerns of their author.'' 
 And those interests and concerns mirrored, in turn, Hofstadter's classic odyssey, which took him from the outer precincts of the country's intellectual life to its hot center. Although routinely identified as a member of the group known as the New York Intellectuals, Hofstadter came from Buffalo, where he was born in 1916, when it was a flourishing city that retained the lingering flavor of an older ''Western'' Protestantism, even as its population was being transformed into a jumble of immigrant ethnicity. Hofstadter felt directly the collision of these cultures. His father, a furrier, was a Jew born in Poland; his mother (who died when he was 10) came from more established German Lutheran stock. Raised in the city's vibrant German community, Hofstadter was christened in a Lutheran church and sang in a Lutheran choir. 
 At the University of Buffalo, he gravitated toward both journalism and philosophy and was inflamed by the ''progressive'' writings of Charles Beard, the era's regnant historian, whose ''Economic Interpretation of the Constitution'' -- which depicted the framers as would-be oligarchs intent on securing their financial interests -- was an epoch-changing work.
 After a brief, unhappy time at the New York School of Law, Hofstadter entered the graduate history program at Columbia in 1937. Like so many young intellectuals of the period, he flirted with radicalism, joining the campus unit of the Communist Party. But he was appalled by the movement's inflexible dogma and by the emerging facts of Stalin's purges, and lasted only four months. He maintained his leftist sympathies, however, and these informed his early work.
 His doctoral thesis, ''Social Darwinism in American Thought,'' published in 1944 and still in print, was a precociously assured and fluently written discourse on 19th-century social scientists like Herbert Spencer and William Graham Sumner, who had debased the theory of natural selection into high-minded apologetics for Gilded Age rapacity, with help from the racially tinged speculations in Darwin's own ''Descent of Man.'' The argument, as Brown notes, is grounded in Beard's economic determinism, though the study comes most alive when it moves into philosophy, religion and literature, pointing toward Hofstadter's later explorations of ''political culture'' and ''styles of thought and rhetoric.'' 
 The book was a critical success, and the young author, marooned in a teaching job at the University of Maryland but angling hard to return to Columbia, was brought back to fill a position in intellectual history, edging out another promising candidate, Arthur Schlesinger Jr., whose ''Age of Jackson'' won the Pulitzer in 1946.
 Once resettled at Columbia, Hofstadter completed his next book, ''The American Political Tradition,'' serial portraits of political leaders from the Constitutional era through the New Deal, each a case study in ''the ideology of American statesmanship.'' Urged by his publisher, Alfred Knopf, to impose a unifying theme, Hofstadter wrote a brief introduction that challenged the precepts of ''conflict history'' advanced by the progressive historians, many of them Midwesterners steeped in the romance of the frontier. In narratives pitting ''the people'' against ''the interests,'' they had dramatized what they saw as the tensions between the forward-looking Western ethos and the settled prejudices of the East.
 To Hofstadter this dynamic evaded the larger truth that ''almost the entire span of American history under the present Constitution has coincided with the rise and spread of modern industrial capitalism,'' with the result that just about everyone, all across the political spectrum, and up and down the economic ladder, joined the contest for riches. Even the most divisive conflicts unfolded within this ''common climate of American opinion,'' shaped by a universal ''belief in the rights of property, the philosophy of economic individualism, the value of competition.'' 
 Exhibit A was the ideas held by the nation's leaders, who almost without exception embraced the free-market credo, as Hofstadter showed in satirical profiles of, among others, the agrarian Thomas Jefferson (''The leisure that made possible his great writings on human liberty was supported by the labors of three generations of slaves''); the trust-buster Theodore Roosevelt (whose writings betrayed ''the intellectual fiber of a muscular and combative Polonius''); and the reformer Woodrow Wilson (an unrepentant Calvinist who ''proposed that the force of the State be used to restore pristine American ideals, not to strike out sharply in a new direction''). Even Abraham Lincoln, ''among the world's great political propagandists,'' was captive to the ''self-made myth.'' But there was one startling exception to the rule, Franklin D. Roosevelt. In previous writings Hofstadter had been scathingly critical of Roosevelt -- of the concessions he'd made to his party's Southern conservatives and of the New Deal's hedged meliorism. But Hofstadter had since made what Brown calls a ''private pilgrimage from the left to the liberal center'' and now appreciated that Roosevelt, catapulted into office amid the crisis of the Great Depression, had ''allowed neither economic dogmas nor political precedents to inhibit him'' as he groped toward relieving economic distress through the improvised regulatory machinery of the New Deal. Roosevelt lacked a mature political philosophy, but he had broken the stranglehold of the free-market doctrine and so was destined to become ''the dominant figure in the mythology of any resurgent American liberalism.'' 
 This interpretation -- repudiating critiques from both the left (which saw Roosevelt as an unprincipled compromiser) and the right (which despised him as a ''traitor to his class'') -- placed Roosevelt outside or above familiar ideological quarrels, and neatly distilled the we're-all-in-this-together exigencies of the early cold war. At 32, Hofstadter succeeded Beard, who died in 1948, as ''the most influential and intellectually significant American historian of his time,'' Brown writes. 
 Soon others would draw out the theme of national agreement, giving rise to the school -- or ''cult,'' as one critic put it -- of consensus. But Hofstadter himself resisted the consensus label, particularly its overtones of boosterism, and was exasperated when his acidulous critique of American ideology was lumped with the ''anti-intellectualist'' cheerleading of a book like Daniel Boorstin's ''Genius of American Politics.'' 
 Beyond this, Hofstadter's liberal vision was as much cultural as political, trained, as he later wrote, ''on matters of tone and style.'' Thus, he had little use for Harry Truman, though Truman had diligently perpetuated the New Deal legacy, because his ''impassioned rhetoric, with its occasional thrusts at 'Wall Street,' seemed passe and rather embarrassing.'' That is to say, it echoed an outworn hick radicalism rather than Roosevelt's modern cosmopolitanism.
 Or so it appeared to Hofstadter in 1954, when he was mourning the defeat of a more satisfying politician, Adlai Stevenson, the Democratic presidential nominee in 1952. Stevenson looked like a better edition of Roosevelt --more sophisticated, with an intellectual's fine-tuned detachment. When Stevenson invoked the New Deal he sounded less like a Democratic partisan than a pragmatic administrator; in polished tones he stressed the need for ''conserving all that is best'' in the Roosevelt program, and for ''building solidly and safely on these foundations.''
 Hofstadter normally shunned political activism -- as well he might in a time when professors with Communist histories, however inconsequential, were being subpoenaed by Red-hunters in Congress. But, Brown surmises, he ''seemed to believe that the fate of postwar liberalism hinged on'' Stevenson's election, and so was swept up in the campaign. Hofstadter signed (with 30 others) a letter published in The New York Times protesting the paper's endorsement of Dwight Eisenhower and also drafted a pro-Stevenson advertisement signed by more than 300 Columbia faculty members. It too was published in The Times, to the dismay of Grayson Kirk, the university's second-ranking administrator and the handpicked successor to Eisenhower, who was still Columbia's president.
 Eisenhower, of course, coasted to victory, to no one's surprise. But the loss, in its magnitude, stung Hofstadter, who henceforth ''retreated altogether from politics,'' his student Eric Foner remembered. Looking back on the election a decade later, Hofstadter found it ''hard to resist the conclusion that Stevenson's smashing defeat was . . . a repudiation by plebiscite of American intellectuals and of intellect itself.'' 
 The election also marked a striking transformation in Hofstadter's interpretations of the American past. The mordant anatomist of the materialist tradition now set off on a new quest: to make sense of the nation's recurrent outbreaks of irrationality and illiberalism -- the ''periodical psychic sprees that purport to be moral crusades,'' the ''revolt against modernity,'' the ''paranoid style in American politics.'' 
 These were Hofstadter's subjects in his most productive years, the 1950's and 60's, when he nested among a nucleus of thinkers at Columbia that included the social theorists Daniel Bell, Seymour Martin Lipset and Robert K. Merton and the literary critic Lionel Trilling. Together they formed a loose federation of like minds and temperaments. All were secular Jews (or in Hofstadter's case, half Jewish). Many had weathered chastening experiences on the left. Most were influenced by European social science, in particular by psychoanalysis and depth psychology, which offered more fruitful diagnostic methods than the tired formulas of Marxism and the class struggle. The Columbia group did much to create the vocabulary of midcentury liberal thought in America as it sought to move beyond ideology and toward a kind of broad public doctrine or ''orthodoxy,'' as Brown puts it. 
 In Hofstadter's case this meant exploring in a systematic way ''the sociological penumbra of political life'' -- the murky substratum of desires and impulses that underlay the surface pageantry of American politics. He was much impressed by ''The Authoritarian Personality'' (1950), a survey of contemporary American political attitudes compiled by a team of researchers under the direction of the German emigre Theodore Adorno. Hofstadter adapted Adorno's ''social-psychological categories'' in his essay ''The Pseudo-Conservative Revolt,'' an attempt to uncover the hidden sources of McCarthyism. 
 Like so many others, Hofstadter had been struggling to decode the signals sent by right-wing anti-Communists as they inveighed against the dangers of global Communism but opposed efforts, including the Marshall Plan, to shore up vulnerable European democracies; denounced Truman when he sent troops to Korea and denounced him again when he dismissed Gen. Douglas MacArthur, who had pushed for escalating the conflict into a full-scale war with China. Through it all, the right seemed to have less appetite for sensibly meeting the actual threats posed by Communist regimes than for staging a ''Great Inquisition'' at home. 
 McCarthyism, Hofstadter argued, was best understood not as a political movement but as a cultural phenomenon. In what would become his most famous formulation, he identified two distinct types of political protest. In dire economic times, for instance the depressions of the 1890's and the 1930's, the dispossessed banded together ''to reform the inequities in our economic and social system.'' This was an example of ''interest politics.'' But in times of prosperity, when social mobility increased and ''the rootlessness and heterogeneity of American life'' left many behind, the losers indulged in a different kind of protest, fixated on the search for scapegoats. This was ''status politics.''
 In the boom years of the 1920's, for instance, millions of small-town and rural ''native stock'' Americans, alarmed by the ascendancy of the country's pluralistic urban culture, had embraced the organized bigotry of the Ku Klux Klan and flocked to the punitive crusades of anti-evolutionism and Prohibition. The pattern was being repeated in the 1950's, also a boom period, only now it was a curious alliance of upwardly mobile white ethnics (many of them Catholics) and downwardly sinking displaced WASPs, who looked to secure their status as authentic Americans by converging upon ''liberals, critics and nonconformists of various sorts, as well as Communists and suspected Communists.'' 
 Moreover, ''the growth of the mass media of communication and their use in politics have brought politics closer to the people than ever before and have made politics a form of entertainment in which the spectators feel themselves involved. Thus it has become, more than ever before, an arena into which private emotions and personal problems can be readily projected. Mass communications have made it possible to keep the mass man in an almost constant state of political mobilization.''
 Half a century later Hofstadter's grasp of the relationship between politics and culture, along with his feel for what he later termed the heartland's ''underground revolt,'' seems not only prescient but thoroughly up-to-date. And his clinical tone still conveys tremendous authority. But his thesis also avoided large political realities: legitimate strategic differences over how best to prosecute the cold war, lingering questions about Communist espionage under Roosevelt and Truman, not to mention the animosities sharpened by a greatly enlarged federal bureaucracy staffed by policy intellectuals who spoke in terms alien to those of many Americans. 
 Hofstadter acknowledged all this, but his analysis gave little or no credit to thoughtful conservatives. His most gifted protege, Christopher Lasch, exaggerated only a little when he later said of the liberal theorists of status politics that ''instead of arguing with opponents, they simply dismissed them on psychiatric grounds.'' Worse, Hofstadter proceeded axiomatically from suspiciously flexible premises. For instance, he depicted enemies of the New Deal as extremists, even though he himself had made the case that the Roosevelt years represented a defining break with a ''tradition'' dating back to the founders. If this was the case, didn't it stand to reason that some should seek to revoke those changes? So too with ''status politics.'' If its psychological calculus were applied neutrally, the stimuli that propelled the ''mass man'' toward Joe McCarthy did not differ from those that sent Manhattan intellectuals toward the ''egghead'' Stevenson. And if, as Hofstadter maintained, political issues now reflected a wider cultural debate over ''the capacity of various groups and occupations to command personal deference in society,'' then the largely Jewish inhabitants of what Brown calls the ''Claremont Avenue ghetto'' were, for all their seeming detachment, as deeply embroiled in the struggle as Midwestern rubes or urban Catholics. 
 In any event, for Hofstadter the lines were now clearly drawn. The fundamental division within America was not between Democrats and Republicans, nor between liberals and conservatives, but between cleareyed intellectuals and benighted philistines, between the rational elite and the impassioned mob. 
 But this yielded a fresh paradox. Hofstadter remained certain that the New Deal was the starting point of a mature modern politics that transcended ideology. And yet to many liberals -- including a formidable historian like Schlesinger -- the Roosevelt revolution derived from a populist tradition that enshrined the ''mass man'' whom Hofstadter distrusted and feared. And true enough, it wasn't just Truman who had railed against Wall Street. Roosevelt himself had reached into the populist lexicon in his attack on ''unscrupulous money-changers.'' 
 In his next major work, ''The Age of Reform: From Bryan to F.D.R.,'' published in 1955, Hofstadter aimed to disprove Schlesinger's argument by revamping the case he'd made in ''The American Political Tradition.'' In his new account, Roosevelt was no longer a lucky improviser but rather the conscious inventor of modern government, the first American statesman to realize that the economic and social conditions of a complex society must be centrally organized and administered by intellectuals. This vision had no real basis in turn-of-the-century reform movements -- rural populism and urban progressivism -- which Hofstadter now depicted as retreats from modernism, retrograde protests on the part of those ''bypassed and humiliated by the advance of industrialism.'' What appeared to be forward-looking programs were in reality rear-guard campaigns to restore America to the ''sacred'' conditions of its rural infancy, when it had been ''a homogeneous Yankee civilization.'' 
 The crux of Hofstadter's analysis was his merciless description of the reform era's dark underside -- its hatred of pluralism and modern life, its nativist and anti-Semitic prejudices. The Populist Party's clamor for economic reform, admirable though it was, had coincided with fears that capital was flowing from the virtuous ''yeoman farmer'' to the corrupt urban laborer. And the muckrakers' impressive exposes of urban political corruption masked the progressives' ''genteel'' revulsion against ''the most exploited sector of the population,'' the growing immigrant communities whose urgently practical needs were met far better by city bosses than by the reformers' agenda of civic virtues (''responsibility, efficiency, good government''). Even the reformers' laudable efforts to control the predations of the robber barons were raveled up in delusory fears of a ''secret conspiratorial plutocracy.'' 
 All this, Hofstadter said, pointed to an ingrained historical cycle of ''deconversion from reform to reaction,'' wherein liberalizing energies (''popular, democratic, progressive'') coexisted with destructive ones, often expressed as bigotry. This was most glaringly the case with William Jennings Bryan, the three-time Democratic presidential nominee who had begun by assailing the moneyed interests and the ''cross of gold'' but ended up in the sinister embrace of the Ku Klux Klan and as the courtroom jester in the Scopes trial. In sum, the age of reform appeared, on close inspection, ''very strongly to foreshadow the cranky pseudo-conservatism of our time.'' Bryan's authentic heir wasn't Roosevelt, the Dutchess County squire. It was Joe McCarthy, who even delivered -- in Wheeling, W. Va., in 1950 -- his own cross of gold speech, a carnal roar against subversives, real and imagined, recipients of ''all the benefits that the wealthiest nation on earth has to offer -- the finest homes, the finest college education and the finest jobs in government.''
 The impact of ''The Age of Reform$(2$) was tidal. Thirty years later it remained ''the most influential book ever published on the history of 20th-century America,'' in the judgment of the historian Alan Brinkley. The novelty lay not in Hofstadter's argument. The malign potential of mass political movements had been clear at least since the demagogic heyday of Father Coughlin and Huey Long in the 1930's. And the thread connecting McCarthy to popular left-wing dissent had been visible from the outset of his rampage; he came, after all, from Wisconsin, the home of the great progressive reformer Robert M. La Follette. 
 And to be sure, Hofstadter once again overstated his case. In an incisive essay, ''The Populist Heritage and the Intellectual,'' C. Vann Woodward, whose own work traced the evolution of popular protest, pointed out the narrowness of an analysis limited to the history of the Midwest and Plains states to the exclusion of the South, where populists, far from being bigots, had courageously battled the injustices of Jim Crow (at least at first). Other critics chipped away too -- at Hofstadter's slighting of cooperative associations and the other economic alternatives reformers had offered in a society dominated by big business. In the next generation a small library of counter-interpretations would appear, each undoing another strand of Hofstadter's argument.
 But in the end, these defects mattered little. Long after the wave of revisionism crested and crashed, ''The Age of Reform'' endures, thanks to the vitality of Hofstadter's narrative, its fluency, its wit, its seamless weave of examples and sources (from apocalyptic novels to muckraking journals) -- anticipating the cultural studies of a later era -- its demythologizing power, above all its feel for ''the emotional and symbolic side of political life.'' 
 And yet there is something claustrophobic in ''The Age of Reform,'' as indeed there is in nearly all of Hofstadter's later work. It emerges in the prose, the relentless assertiveness of its arguments and also in its sweeping descriptions (''the progressive movement is the complaint of the unorganized'') and caustic epithets (the ''pathetic proletarianism'' of the 30's; the ''rural-evangelical virus''). Hofstadter records not only his subjects' delusions but also his own disillusionment. He accuses the populists and progressives of a ''destructive alienation'' from America and ''its essential values,'' but his own alienation seems even more severe. For Hofstadter, increasingly, all American politics incline toward pathology. They are a continual eruption of ''hostility'' ''grievances,'' ''resentments,'' ''anxieties.'' His horror of ''mass man'' borders, in places, on a loathing of democracy itself. In his many writings, there are very few moments -- apart from his accounts of the New Deal -- when political energy springs from inspiring, or even honorable, sources. 
 Hofstadter openly aired his own grievances and anxieties in ''Anti-Intellectualism in American Life,'' published in 1963. His most personal book and also his most idiosyncratic, it is a wide-ranging meditation on philistinism in American religion, politics, business and education. America had always distrusted original minds, Hofstadter wrote, but in the post-Sputnik moment, ''the national distaste for the intellectual appeared to be not just a disgrace but a hazard to survival.'' 
 Coming from one who deplored ideological overstatement, this alarmism was disingenuous, at the very least. Equally disingenuous, and faintly ludicrous, is the spectacle of a much-honored public eminence warning against the dangers of American philistinism at the height of the Kennedy years, when a conveyor belt ran from Harvard Yard to the White House, and a major historian, Arthur Schlesinger Jr., served as a presidential adviser. Then again, Hofstadter, who ''was directly afraid of power,'' as his close friend Alfred Kazin once remarked, was skeptical of cozy transactions between thinkers and doers and later rebuffed an invitation to join an advisory group in the Johnson administration. However much ''deference'' intellectuals were being accorded in the early 1960's, Hofstadter seemed to be saying, their only safe habitat was on the social margins. 
 The very title ''Anti-Intellectualism in American Life,'' verging on operatic self-parody, might have been invented by one of Saul Bellow's comic narcissists. Indeed there seems a satirical hint of Hofstadter in Bellow's ''Herzog'' (1964). Herzog too is an intellectual historian, the author of a study embraced by a new generation, who ''accepted it as a model of the new sort of history, 'history that interests us' -- personal, engagee -- and looks at the past with an intense need for contemporary relevance.'' Herzog too registers the distance in America between the intellectual and the man of action. The letters he feverishly drafts but doesn't send include a rambling lecture addressed to Hofstadter's bete noire, the ur-philistine Dwight Eisenhower. (''Intelligent people without influence,'' Herzog explains to Ike, ''feel a certain self-contempt, reflecting the contempt of those who hold real political or social power, or think they do.'')
 Not that Hofstadter doesn't have a case to make. ''Anti-Intellectualism in American Life'' includes many brilliant pages. There is a discussion of early American evangelism and its attack on learned clergy, the eggheads of their day. And there are justly celebrated passages on ''the revolt against modernity'' that occurred in the early 1900's -- ''the emergence of a religious style shaped by a desire to strike back against everything modern -- the higher criticism, evolutionism, the social gospel, rational criticism of every kind.''
 But Hofstadter's repetitions seem obsessive. The familiar cast reappears: Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, William Jennings Bryan (''a layman who combined in his person the two basic ancestral pieties of the people -- evangelical faith and populistic democracy''). And he rehashes the election martyrdom of Adlai Stevenson (''the victim of the accumulated grievances against intellectuals and brain trusters''). Only now he concedes what was obvious to others in 1952, that Stevenson had been ''hopelessly overmatched'' against Eisenhower, ''a national hero of irresistible magnetism.'' Also, ''after 20 years of Democratic rule, the time for a change in the parties was overdue, if the two-party system was to have any meaning.''
 Hofstadter had reason to think more charitably of Eisenhower, who, in the end, had proved a moderate caretaker of New Deal gains, as many observers had expected he would be (including Eisenhower's fierce opponents on the right). Since then a new tribune had emerged on the right, Barry Goldwater, a sworn enemy of Roosevelt's welfare state. Goldwater's presidential nomination in 1964 was ''a vital blow at the American political order,'' in Hofstadter's view. His subsequent thrashing in the general election was ''the most satisfying political experience of Richard Hofstadter's life,'' according to Brown. But even as others predicted the demise of Goldwaterism, Hofstadter, in the many pages he wrote on the phenomenon, gathered in ''The Paranoid Style in American Politics'' (1965), understood that the movement represented a ''permanent force.'' Unlike McCarthy, who had been a one-man and one-issue show, Goldwater represented a more disciplined extremism. He too beheld a government conspiracy directed by an all-powerful few (hence his ''paranoia'') and like the McCarthyites was guilty of ''heated exaggeration'' and ''suspiciousness.'' But his politics grew organically out of public frustration with a world proving resistant to American ambitions. ''The American frame of mind was created by a long history that encouraged our belief that we have an almost magical capacity to have our way in the world, that the national will can be made entirely effective, as against other peoples, at a relatively small price,'' Hofstadter observed. No wonder Goldwater, and before him John F. Kennedy in 1960, had insisted the cold war could be won outright if only America were tougher in its dealings with the Soviets. 
 Goldwater had the further advantage, unlike McCarthy, of being an organization man who attracted ''dedicated enthusiasts'' easily ''mobilized'' in the service of the cause. And he was ideologically pure. His proximate goal was not to win elections -- in fact he had been the most reluctant of presidential candidates -- ''but to propagandize for a set of attitudes.'' All this implied future success if only right-wing Republicanism could overcome ''its inability to rear and sustain national leaders.'' Within a generation Ronald Reagan would solve this problem. 
 Of course Reagan had help from the left. Little did Hofstadter suspect that a year after the publication of ''Anti-Intellectualism in American Life,'' attacks on autonomous liberals far more damaging than any inflicted by the right would come, as Brown writes, ''from the children of the liberal class itself.'' University-based militants of the New Left began echoing the criticisms of the liberal establishment the right had been making for years. The wave of campus protests, which started at Berkeley in 1964, reached Hofstadter's Columbia in 1968, when student radicals occupied buildings and intimidated faculty. The administration summoned the police, and a violent battle ensued. Hofstadter, respected on all sides -- not least because he was an early opponent of the Vietnam War and had joined one of Martin Luther King's voting-rights marches -- acted as a conciliator. When Grayson Kirk declined to appear before outraged students on commencement day, Hofstadter took his place, offering a ringing defense of academic freedom. He spoke with the authority of one who in 1950 had turned down a teaching offer from Berkeley because the state of California enforced a loyalty oath. But to members of Columbia's Students for a Democratic Society, his speech reeked of mandarin ''privilege,'' precisely the charge Joe McCarthy had leveled against liberals in 1950. 
 Hofstadter was forced now to examine the liberalism he had hitherto exempted from the hard scrutiny he had trained on the right. As early as the mid-1950's, some had detected ''neo-conservative'' strains in Hofstadter's critique of the populist tradition. In the last years of his life he adopted views very similar to those of disillusioned intellectuals who felt ''mugged by reality.'' Like them he grew convinced, Brown writes, ''that the prevalent style of liberalism was not liberal at all. It was soft, weak and ideologically inconsistent. Rather than serve as a kind of consensual middle ground for the majority of Americans -- like the Johnson constituency of 1964 -- liberals were tilting toward the left, in a sense abandoning their liberalism. If, he concluded, a group of right-wing students had occupied buildings at Columbia, the faculty would have demanded that the administration throw them out.'' 
 In 1969 Hofstadter fled the ''Claremont Avenue ghetto'' for a Park Avenue apartment. He continued to write prolifically and at times brilliantly. In his book ''The Progressive Historians,'' an elegant reconsideration of Beard and company, he at last admitted ownership of the consensus theory, and of the ideal of ''a vital kind of moral consensus that I would call comity.'' Shaken by the riots that swept through the nation's great cities, he was also a co-editor of an anthology of documents on ''American Violence,'' from a fatal dispute between the Puritans and the Pilgrims through the murders of Malcolm X and Robert F. Kennedy. ''Today we are not only aware of our own violence; we are frightened of it,'' he wrote in the introduction. ''We are now quite ready to see that there is far more violence in our national heritage than our proud, sometimes smug, national self-image admits of.'' 
 This appeared in 1970, the year Hofstadter died. He had been working on a projected three-volume study, ''the big narrative history that was his greatest dream as a writer,'' in the words of Alfred Kazin. In 1971 the first volume, ''America in 1750: A Social Portrait,'' was published in its unfinished state, and the roughness shows. But even had Hofstadter seen the project through, it seems unlikely he would have succeeded on the grand terms he envisioned, because -- as always -- he relied on synthesis and argument rather than original research. Narrative history ultimately belongs to ''archive rats,'' whose tedious hours spent with documents bring them closer to the events they write about, enabling them to touch the human pulse of the past.
 But there is one magnificent section in this last book, an impassioned, indignant account of ''white servitude'' in the colonies. In pages written in the throes of mortal illness, Hofstadter described, with a directness new to his prose, the fates of indentured servants who braved the Atlantic crossing only to meet hardships as brutal as those they had escaped in the Old World. For the first time the patented irony is enriched by human sympathy. ''For a great many the journey across the Atlantic proved to have been only an epitome of their journey through life,'' he wrote. ''And yet there must have seemed to be little at risk because there was so little at stake. They had so often left a scene of turbulence, crime, exploitation and misery that there could not have been much hope in most of them; and as they lay in their narrow bedsteads listening to the wash of the rank bilge water below them, sometimes racked with fever or lying in their own vomit, few could have expected very much from American life, and those who did were too often disappointed.'' 
 In the end, disappointment was Hofstadter's great overarching theme, which may partly explain why, as Brown points out, ''there is no Hofstadter school'' today. His account of the American past was finally tragic, and tragedy lies outside the comfortable boundaries of American thought. Still, writers survive through their own work, not that of their disciples. And at his best, Hofstadter remains vitally alive and endlessly instructive. ''To look back upon Hofstadter's lost world of liberalism today -- from the vista, that is, of a conservative age -- is to recall its surprising fragility,'' Brown writes.
 At this moment, when so many seek to recover that lost world or to invent an updated version of it -- a post 9/11 cold-war liberalism or a reconstituted ''vital center'' -- Hofstadter's case deserves a fresh look, for he knew very well just how fragile liberalism is, even if he sometimes mistook its prejudices for principles and its illusions for ideals.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Hofstadter in 1956. (Photograph by General Photographic Collection, University Archives, Columbia University)
The defeat of Adlai Stevenson in the 1952 presidential election marked a turning point in Hofstadter's interpretation of the American past. (Photograph by Richard Hofstadter)
 Hofstadter was distressed by the confrontation between students and the police at Columbia in May 1968. (Photograph by Larry C. Morris/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HISTORY (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLD WAR (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (62%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: Sam Tanenhaus; Richard (1916-70) Hofstadter; David S Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



79 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Cheap Solutions Cut AIDS Toll for Poor Kenyan Youths 

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
At a time when millions of people each year are still being infected with the virus that causes AIDS, particularly in Africa, a rigorous new study has identified several simple, inexpensive methods that helped reduce the spread of the disease among Kenyan teenagers, especially girls. 
 In Kenya, where poverty drives some girls to sleep with older men for money or gifts, teenage girls are seven times more likely to be H.I.V. positive than boys the same age. 
The new study found that when informed that older men are much likelier to be infected, teenage girls were far less likely to become pregnant by so-called sugar daddies.
 The $1 million study, financed by the Partnership for Child Development, a London-based nonprofit group, did not seek blood tests for H.I.V., since its subjects were minors. Instead, it relied on pregnancy as evidence of unprotected sex.
 The study found that when girls in impoverished rural areas were given free school uniforms instead of having to pay $6 for them -- the principal remaining economic barrier to education in Kenya -- they were significantly less likely to drop out and become pregnant. 
 Researchers also found that classroom debates and essay-writing contests on whether students should be taught about condoms to prevent the spread of H.I.V. increased the use of condoms without increasing sexual activity.
 The methods, identified by economists affiliated with the Poverty Action Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, offer a splash of good news in an often bleak landscape. ''I was very reluctant to get involved in this, because I thought nothing would work,'' said Michael Kremer, a Harvard economics professor who was on the lab's team. ''I'm very happy to see some things are working.''
 The study was conducted over three years among 70,000 students in the sixth to eighth grades in 328 schools in Kenya. Several AIDS-prevention methods were tested in randomly selected schools, and the results were compared with those from schools that did not get the help.
 The study also surveyed the students about condom use. 
 The researchers tested the results of training teachers in Kenya's AIDS curriculum, which provides general information about how the disease spreads and emphasizes the importance of abstinence until marriage. The study found that approach had little or no impact on students' practical knowledge about condoms or on rates of teenage pregnancy.
 In a recent telephone interview, Isaac Thuita, who leads the AIDS control unit in Kenya's Education Ministry, called the research ''very relevant, very important.''
 Such stringent studies of AIDS-prevention programs are rare and important, given the life-and-death stakes and the growing amounts donors are devoting to AIDS prevention. The United States government, through President Bush's global AIDS plan, spent $141 million worldwide last year to prevent the sexual transmission of H.I.V. 
 When told about the findings in a recent telephone interview, Warren W. Buckingham, the Kenya coordinator for the Bush AIDS plan, singled out the researchers' approach to reducing the lure of sex with older men as ''new and very intriguing.''
 He said some American-financed programs -- including the Girl Guides, Kenya's version of the Girl Scouts -- warned of the dangers of cross-generational sex, but generally did not provide statistics on sharply rising male infection rates with age.
 ''That's an important finding, and we can absolutely take it on to refine our programs for girls,'' he said.
 In Kenya, large-scale surveys based on H.I.V. blood tests have found that infection rates, at less than one-half of 1 percent among teenage boys, rise to 7 percent among men 25 to 29, and peak at 9 percent among those 40 to 44. 
 Mr. Buckingham said the United States had also supported programs to train teachers in Kenya's AIDS curriculum and to give free school uniforms to AIDS orphans, though not more broadly to poor children who could not afford them.
 The researchers in Kenya found that most of the girls in the study had no idea that adult men were much more likely than boys their own age to infect them with H.I.V.
 To test what would happen if the girls knew, the researchers devised a 40-minute class for eighth graders. 
 The students were shown a 10-minute animated video about the risks of relying on sugar daddies, made for the United Nations Children's Fund. In schools lacking electricity, the research project brought in a generator, television and VCR. 
 The movie itself did not address the risk of H.I.V., but it did get the students' attention. ''This was a very exciting day, to have a television in their school,'' said Pascaline Dupas, a Dartmouth College economist who oversaw that part of the study.
 A representative from a nonprofit group working with the researchers wrote the infection rates for males and females by age on the blackboard. The class then discussed the implications.
 A year after the researchers intervened, girls who had been given information about the greater risk of sex with older men were 65 percent less likely to have gotten pregnant by an adult partner.
 ''That intervention is very, very cheap and could be scaled up easily,'' said Esther Duflo, an economics professor at M.I.T. and a member of the research team. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (96%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); AIDS POLICY (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); CURRICULA (78%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (78%); VIRUSES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Children and Youth; Condoms; Education and Schools; Women; Uniforms; Pregnancy and Obstetrics; Dropouts; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Birth Control and Family Planning

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%) Partnership for Child Development (London nonprofit)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Celia W Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) KENYA (98%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Kenya

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



80 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: The Rich Spend Just Like You and Me

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
THE extensive coverage of the Astor family saga is just the latest example of America's longstanding fascination with the very rich. But in recent years, the lifestyles of wealthy people have been not only a staple of popular culture but of serious economic research as well.
 That's because the wealthiest families have reaped enormous financial rewards over the last two decades, and their economic and political power has increased markedly. So it's well worth asking what they are doing with all that money and what effect they are having on the overall economy.
Finding out where those income gains have gone, however, is about as easy as peering at the estates behind the towering hedges of Gin Lane in Southampton. There's simply no official data on the economic behavior of the very rich. We can't be sure how much they are saving or consuming, or exactly how they are using their accumulated wealth. 
 The wealthy are often thought to be big savers and, under President Bush, they have been given significant tax breaks. But what has actually become of their outsized gains in income? 
 There are some clues. 
 For discussion's sake, let's start by defining the very rich as the top 1 percent of the population. That's about 1.4 million families, a group that in 2004 had an average real income of nearly $750,000. 
 According to two economists, Thomas Piketty, at the School for Advanced Studies in Social Sciences in Paris, and Emmanuel Saez, at the University of California, Berkeley, the income of this top 1 percent increased an inflation-adjusted 44 percent from 1994 to 2004, compared with a 10 percent average increase for the rest of the population. 
 That's without counting capital gains, a large source of income for this group. Including capital gains, the gap between the top 1 percent and everyone else widened further, totaling a 54 percent increase in real income for the very rich and a 12 percent gain for everyone else.
 Tracking what has happened to those income gains first requires examining the two best official data sources: the Consumer Expenditure Survey, conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and the Survey of Consumer Finances, conducted by the Federal Reserve Board. 
 The trouble is that the Consumer Expenditure Survey lumps together as ''rich'' the top third of households, starting at income levels around $70,000 a year. The consumer finance survey is not much better. It includes the top 10 percent of households.
 Another approach -- to glean information by studying individual economic sectors -- runs into similar problems. For instance, official housing sales data lumps homes over $500,000 into a single category. But in many areas of the country today, the starting point for real estate held by the very rich is valued at $3 million or more.
 Without precise figures, we have to rely on aggregate measures and anecdotal evidence to paint a picture of what the very rich have been doing with their money.
 Start with what, it seems, the very rich have not been doing much of -- saving. The national savings rate has declined steadily during the last decade, and every income group has been saving less. 
 Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Economy.com, has tried to study the savings rate for the rich. Because concrete official data for the top 1 percent is lacking, Mr. Zandi focused on the top 5 percent -- households with an average real income of around $275,000. 
 He found that the proportion of after-tax income saved in this group fell from 13.6 percent in 1990 to 6.2 percent in the first quarter of this year. And he knows of no reason that the top 1 percent would be notably different in their savings habits. 
 ''The wealth effect is inducing less saving and more consumption by almost everyone, including those at the very top,'' Mr. Zandi said.
 What can we deduce about what the very rich have been spending their larger income on? By surveying the booming industries that cater to well-heeled consumers, it seems reasonable to conclude that the rich have been buying such things as high-end real estate, yachts and luxury goods like jewelry. 
 Figures for second-home mortgages soared in the last decade, while real estate sales over $3 million hit record levels. DataQuick, a real estate research group based in San Diego, estimates that the number of properties nationwide that sold for more than $3 million grew 135 percent in the five years to 2005. 
 And while the rest of the real estate market may be cooling off, sales of luxury properties remain steady. ''What I'm hearing from our brokers is that the high end, $10 million plus, has not tailed off like the rest of the market,'' said Jim Gillespie, president and chief executive officer of the Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation.
 Then there's spending on other luxury goods. Three economists, Jonathan A. Parker and Yacine Ait-Sahalia from Princeton, together with Motohiro Yogo at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, tried to track the consumption of the wealthy by constructing an index based on domestic sales of luxury retailers such as Tiffany. 
 Their research indicates that during the 1990's, the average annual real sales growth of luxury retailers was a strong 11 percent. Unfortunately, their data stops at 2001. But looking at the domestic sales of individual high-end retailers since then, it seems sales have remained robust. For instance, Tiffany reported that domestic sales grew 9 percent in the year ended Jan. 31, 2006, and 10 percent the previous year. 
 Over the short term, the propensity of the very rich to consume rather than save has helped stimulate the national economy. Led by the wealthy, American consumers have driven growth around the world as well as at home. This may seem like good news, but there's a catch. Too much consumption and not enough saving could become a significant drag on the domestic economy. 
 SAVING leads to investment and capital formation, which in turn drive growth and prosperity. Without savings of its own, a nation, to support its living standard, must attract the savings of foreign investors by offering higher interest rates. Higher rates then tend to slow domestic growth. 
 ''It hasn't been a problem up to this point,'' Mr. Zandi said. ''But unless higher-income households start to save more, it will be a big concern.'' 
 Mr. Zandi is skeptical that the very rich will change their behavior any time soon. When he pieces the evidence together, he finds that within the top income group, younger wealthy households tend to save less than their older counterparts. 
 This may suggest the emergence of a more profligate attitude toward consumption and saving among segments of the very rich.
 To be sure, some very wealthy people have engaged in acts of great generosity. Brooke Astor has been renowned not just as the doyenne of New York society, but as a philanthropist. 
 Recently, on a much larger scale, Warren E. Buffett has dedicated the bulk of his fortune to philanthropy, through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 
 While philanthropy should be applauded, it can't replace the basic responsibility we all have of saving and investing in the future of the nation. Time will tell how responsible the very rich have been with all their new wealth.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Play Money''Graph tracks average real annual income (includes capital gains) for top 1 percent of earners from 1994 to 2004.'94-'04 change: +54%Graph tracks remaining 99 percent of earners from 1994 to 2004.'94-'04 change: +12%(Source by Thomas Piketty [School for Advanced Studies in Social Sciences, Paris] and Emmanuel Saez [University of California, Berkeley])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (93%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); STATISTICS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); POLITICS (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); RETAIL SALES (62%); CONSUMER LENDING (60%); RETAILERS (60%) United States Economy; Millionaires and Billionaires; Savings; Consumer Behavior; Real Estate; Sales; Retail Stores and Trade ; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%)

PERSON: Anna Bernasek

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



81 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Pause Camp May Finally Have Its Day

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE Federal Reserve has raised interest rates 17 times in the last two years, and nearly each move was greeted with speculation that it would be the last. The ''pause'' camp continues to add members, and on Tuesday they may be proved right at last. 
 The consensus in a Bloomberg News poll of economists, which has routinely predicted quarter-point increases before Federal Open Market Committee meetings, calls for the federal funds rate to remain at 5.25 percent. That is what Anthony Karydakis, chief United States economist at J. P. Morgan Asset Management, expects, but he said he did not know how long the rate would stay at that level, and he warned that no move was not necessarily a good thing for investors.
He said the probability that the string of rate increases was about to be broken had grown in recent weeks as long-term bond yields had fallen. He described the decline as the bond market's way of expressing confidence in the Fed's ability to control inflation. That relieves pressure on the central bank to raise rates, he said, adding that the chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is probably glad to have that weight off his shoulders.
 ''His best judgment seems to be telling him to wait for a while,'' Mr. Karydakis said. ''You can see it in his comments and in the comments of other Fed officials. In his own heart of hearts, he is not convinced another move right now is necessary.''
 But Mr. Karydakis emphasized that any pause in rate tightening would most likely be brief.
 ''Pausing is not tantamount to stopping the process,'' said Mr. Karydakis, who expects one more rate increase this year, probably in the fall. ''Pausing means pausing. The Fed will watch things closely, take it from there and consider options at the next meeting'' in September. The statement accompanying this week's rate decision is likely to have a hawkish tone to telegraph Wall Street ''not to mistake the lack of a move for an end to the tightening process,'' he said.
 If there is a pause, Mr. Karydakis said, traders may start buying stocks and bonds, only to sell them after reading the fine print in the Fed's statement. 
 ''Probably, stocks will view an absence of a tightening move as a friendly gesture and will try to do better,'' he said. ''Is it going to be the beginning of a sustained rally? I doubt it.''

DATA WATCH -- A government report on second-quarter productivity Tuesday will precede the Fed decision. The Bloomberg poll anticipates growth at a 0.8 percent annual rate, slowing from 3.7 percent in the first quarter.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks year-over-year change in productivity from 2004 through estimated 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); INFLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%); MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



82 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: What Road to Take When Real Estate Is Not a Sure Bet 

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
FOR most Americans, their home is their single biggest investment. So many investors are understandably worried now that the residential real estate market has turned decidedly cold.
 The question is, should they be?
Certainly, anyone who needs to sell their home today -- to relocate for a job, for example, or simply to downsize -- may need to be concerned about the growing glut of single-family homes for sale. 
 And investors who happen to hold a large stake of their financial portfolios in securities focused on real estate also need to worry about the growing risks in this sector. Since the start of the year, for instance, homebuilding stocks, which had been the market's darlings in 2003 and 2004, have lost nearly a third of their value on average, according to Morningstar. 
 But for buy-and-hold investors who have the luxury of time, the answer isn't so clear. 
 To be sure, all investors ''need to pay attention to what's going on in housing because two-thirds of the economy is consumer driven,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist for Standard & Poor's. And homes have been a major source of wealth that has bankrolled spending in recent years. Last year, for example, Americans pulled $595 billion out of their homes through sales, home equity loans and cash-out refinancing activity, according to estimates by UBS Securities. 
 But as long as the housing market continues to cool gradually, falling demand for single-family homes could turn out to be a slight positive for equities, said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia. 
 After all, a large chunk of the investment dollars that had been going into housing recently is likely to be redirected into equities, Mr. Kleintop said. He said that shortly after housing prices peaked in Britain and Australia in 2003, the stock markets in both those countries began to rally. 
 Still, equity investors need to be cautious and selective when it comes to investing during a housing slowdown. Should home values stagnate or fall while energy prices remain high, consumers are likely to pull back on their spending, said David R. Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors, an investment advisory firm in Vineland, N.J. This is why he recommends that investors underweight their exposure to the consumer discretionary sector.
 This includes bets on retailers and manufacturers of consumer durable items like furniture and appliances. During the last three months, shares of furniture and appliance makers have tumbled around 26 percent. 
 History says avoiding consumer discretionary stocks during housing slowdowns is a smart move. Ned Davis Research recently studied how various sectors in the S.& P. 500-stock index have performed in past periods of declining home sales.
 As one would expect, the sector most affected by declining home sales has been basic materials -- since demand for commodities such as lumber, steel and copper tend to be affected by construction trends. From the end of February 1972 to June 2006, every 1 percent monthly decline in new-home sales coincided with a 1.7 percent fall among materials stocks in the S.& P. 500.
 But the consumer discretionary sector has been nearly as vulnerable to housing declines. Since February 1972, a 1 percent drop in new-home sales has coincided with a 1.4 percent decline in the stock price of consumer discretionary companies.
 Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer for Harris Private Bank in Chicago, recently found similar results. Instead of looking at monthly changes in new-home sales, Mr. Ablin studied the correlations between various S.& P. 500 sectors and year-over-year changes in existing single-family home sales based on data starting in January 1999. In recent years, the sectors that have moved most closely with housing demand have been consumer discretionary and materials stocks. By comparison, since 2000, the sector with the lowest correlation to housing demand has been health care, Mr. Ablin found. This is one reason he recommends investors overweight health care stocks, as they are likely to be shielded from the weakening housing market.
 To be sure, aggressive investors could take advantage of the softness in housing by short-selling housing-related equities. And the recent introduction by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange of real estate futures and options -- which allow investors to bet on or against the housing market in 10 major cities, including New York, Los Angeles and Miami -- has made it easier for investors to short real estate in general.
 But Mr. Kotok cautions buy-and-hold investors from short-selling in general, given that this strategy requires you to pay close attention to day-to-day fluctuations in prices. He added that in the short term, the housing market could be just as unpredictable as equities. 
 What's more, although the housing market is cooling, it's not been a monolithic sell-off. While investor appetite for real estate is on the wane, there are still some segments of the market that are doing quite well. 
 Take real estate investment trusts that own multifamily apartment buildings. Thanks to high home prices and rising borrowing costs, renting has become more attractive as of late. ''Two years ago, tenants were being scolded for being idiots because they weren't buying homes,'' said Joseph R. Betlej, vice president and portfolio manager for Advantus Capital Management. ''Now it's just the opposite.'' 
 AS a result, rents in many markets are expected to climb more than 3 percent this year. And apartment REIT's have been among the market's best performers. From Jan. 1 to July 31, the average apartment REIT has generated a total return of 26.9 percent, according to SNL Financial, a financial services and research firm. Of course, since apartment REIT's have posted double-digit returns in five of the last six years, some analysts think these investments are now trading at lofty valuations. 
 And apartment REIT's aren't a perfect hedge against the value of your single-family home. Ultimately, landlords are just as dependent on a healthy economy as is the single-family home market. 
 This is why many market strategists think now is a good time to invest defensively, rather than trying to make fresh bets on real estate.
 There's always a degree of risk in making tactical changes to your mix of stocks and bonds -- and the types of stocks you hold. So if you plan to tweak your portfolio to position yourself better for the housing slowdown, it makes sense to err on the side of caution.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Landscape of Housing Downturns''From February 1972 to June 2006, when monthly new-home sales declined 1 percent, investments in each of the following industries performed as shown.Correlations to 1 percent declines in housing marketHousing: -1.0%Telecommunications: +0.3%Utilities: -0.4%Health care: -0.6%Energy: -0.7%Consumer staples: -0.8%Financials: -1.2%Information technology: -1.3%Consumer discretionary: -1.4%Industrials: -1.5%Materials: -1.7%Industries other than housing are S.& P. 500 sectors.(Source by Ned Davis Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); BONDS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (63%); FURNITURE MFG (63%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (63%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Real Estate Investment Trusts; Housing 

COMPANY: CUMBERLAND ADVISORS (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



83 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 8-06-06: PHENOMENON; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Degradation Inc.

BYLINE: By Aimee Molloy. 
Aimee Molloy is the author, with James Yee, of ''For God and Country: Faith and Patriotism Under Fire.''

 BODY:
Of all the things Rufus Hannah regrets -- discovering alcohol at age 14, living homeless for 12 years -- it is his notoriety that haunts him. Every time someone recognizes him, he told me recently, he feels ''so ashamed.'' Hannah, known to his fans as Rufus the Stunt Bum, is one of the inadvertent stars of a DVD series called ''Bumfights.'' Filmed on the streets of suburban San Diego and Las Vegas, the videos portray homeless people fighting one another, being pushed down hills in shopping carts and jumping off buildings into Dumpsters. What unfolds looks like a cross between ''Jackass,'' MTV's stunt-based show, and a cinema verite portrait of the homeless as addicted, crazy and desperate enough to, for a little cash, light their hair on fire, pull out a tooth with pliers and have ''Bumfights'' tattooed on their bodies. 
Hannah, who is 51 and an Army veteran, became involved with Bumfights more than five years ago, when Ryan McPherson, a high-school student and aspiring filmmaker, offered him $5 to run headfirst into milk crates stacked in the parking lot of a grocery store in El Cajon, Calif. ''He told me he was doing a video for his economics class on what it was like when you don't have a job,'' Hannah said. ''I just wanted some money to get drunk, so I did what he told me to. I never had any idea the stuff he was filming would become what it did.'' 
 What it became, according to the film's producers, was the ''fastest-selling independent video series.'' Released in 2002, the first ''Bumfights'' sold for $19.95, mainly through the Bumfights Web site. Soon after, McPherson and his fellow filmmakers sold the rights for $1.5 million to two Las Vegas producers, who have since churned out sequels. Sales, initially modest but steady, exploded after Howard Stern featured the video on air. Within six months, revenues neared $600,000. 
 After the media attention, McPherson and the original filmmakers were charged with conspiracy to stage an illegal fight, a misdemeanor. They pleaded guilty and were ordered to do community service. (McPherson was recently sent to jail for failing to complete his community service.)
 Many homeless people in the video seem drunk, stoned or mentally ill. Hannah said he was never sober during filming and participated for the money (at most $10 per stunt). In one recurring segment called ''Bum Hunter,'' a young man in safari clothes sneaks up on sleeping homeless people. He binds and gags them, then ''marks'' them by writing a number on their foreheads. 
 The National Coalition for the Homeless, calling the films ''degrading'' and ''sickening,'' began a campaign against ''Bumfights'' soon after its debut. The coalition approached retailers and asked them to ''stop selling hate.'' 
 Myra Mendible, a professor of cultural studies at Florida Gulf Coast University, says the films reflect a trend. ''Reality television has created an audience that is not only desensitized to images of human suffering but also has acquired an appetite for them.'' McPherson, who is unapologetic, says ''Bumfights'' was ''fresh and new'' and simply filled the demand for more shocking material.
 The homeless coalition says it fears that the films have contributed to teenage violence against the homeless, especially because viewers are encouraged to submit ''ruckus'' footage of their own. According to law-enforcement officials, a number of young people have videotaped themselves attacking homeless people, including four teenagers in Melbourne, Australia, who killed a man by setting fire to his tent; five in Alberta, Canada, who assaulted a homeless man with bottles and a club, then urinated on his face; and four young men near Cleveland, who crept up on homeless people and shocked them with a stun gun. 
 Hannah, who says he has been sober for three years and is employed and no longer homeless, recently settled a lawsuit with the filmmakers. They agreed to an undisclosed amount in damages and to not use his image in future videos. He is also working with the homeless coalition toward legislation that would make violence against the homeless a hate crime. Meanwhile, the current ''Bumfights'' producers have just released ''Bumfights 4.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Rubino)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (92%); FILM (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE FILMING (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%); MISDEMEANORS (65%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (64%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%); CONSPIRACY (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%) Homeless Persons; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Assaults

ORGANIZATION: Coalition for the Homeless

PERSON: Aimee Molloy

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



84 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: My Country, Right and Wrong (but Why So Wrong?)

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
LIKE many people, I am attracted to puzzles. I don't do crossword puzzles, and I no longer read many mysteries, but I am impressed at the number of conundrums there are in this world.
 One of the ones that continues to baffle me is the criticism of oil companies in Congress and in the mainstream media, because oil companies have been very profitable. No one has been able to prove price-fixing. The Federal Trade Commission specifically studied the subject, and found neither price-fixing nor gouging by any major oil company.
I agree the profits are very large in absolute numbers, but in relative terms they are nothing like investment bank profits. Why do we not raise an eyebrow when hedge funds make huge profits by moving around pieces of paper and roiling markets -- creating no social good I can see -- but raise a ruckus when oil companies make profits while keeping the whole nation going? 
 I see the hand of an archaic envy here, and it's a dangerous hand. 
 A second puzzle, and this is a killer: ''Supply side'' economists say that by lowering taxes, we create more prosperity and more tax revenue because we stimulate economic activity. One way, supposedly, is that people work harder -- that is, more hours a week. With taxes cut, we keep more of what we earn, so we'll work more. 
 (Of course, you could also say that if we keep more of what we earn, we won't need to work as much, so we'll work less. But no one pays much attention to that, so we won't either for right now.)
 And, in fact, if you think about it, how else could income tax cuts stimulate economic activity except by encouraging Americans to work more or else by having more Americans in the labor force?
 Yet, the number of hours Americans work per week has barely budged in the five years since President Bush's tax cuts, and is very much less than the number of hours worked per week on average in 1959, when tax rates were far, far higher than they are now.
 Moreover, the percentage of male Americans in the labor force has fallen by 10 full percentage points from 1959 to now. Overall labor force participation has barely changed since 1989 -- almost entirely because of very large growth in the female labor force -- and has moved almost not at all since the Bush tax cuts were passed. 
 If the personal income tax cuts are not working to stimulate the economy through added labor, then just how are they working -- or are they working?
 A puzzle: we have all heard corporate executives say that American workers are paid too much; that our industries cannot compete with foreign makers because our labor costs are so high that if we used American union labor, we would see profits evaporate.
 And yet, hourly wages in this country, adjusted for inflation, are below what they were in 1972 (when my pal, Richard Nixon, was president) by a substantial amount. But to hear corporate leaders tell it, this is still far too high to allow competition with foreign entities. 
 Now, you would think that if this high-priced American labor were in fact pressing corporate backs to the wall, profits would be stagnant or falling. But in fact, in the last several years -- and especially the last few quarters -- corporate profits as a percentage of sales were the highest they have been since 1965 -- roughly 9.6 percent before tax and roughly 7.4 percent after tax. 
 In total, profits are by far the highest they have ever been, running at a rate of very roughly $1.38 trillion in the first quarter of 2006. As a percentage of gross domestic product, profits are also the highest they have been since the statistics began being kept in 1959 -- roughly 12.7 percent. 
 Don't get me wrong. I like profits, a lot. They are what the capitalist society is all about. But why are we outsourcing, why are we moving our work overseas, if our corporations are so profitable? And if our corporate world is so profitable, how come so little of the growth goes to workers' wages? How come -- as an average number -- basically none of the growth goes to the ordinary worker's wages? I am not saying this to encourage strikes. I am genuinely puzzled about it.
 Could it be that just the threat of moving jobs overseas (very few have in fact actually been moved as yet) keeps labor cowed? Is the vast labor force of Asia and the Third World in fact something like ''the reserve army of the unemployed'' that Karl Marx described in his critique of capitalism? 
 I hate and detest Marx and everything he stands for, but he was a shrewd observer. In any event, what's going on? How can retail stores keep wages so low? All service jobs that have to be done in person are not going to be shipped to Guangdong or Mumbai. Then why don't their wages rise? 
 Next mystery: in a nation with stupendous deficits even at the peak of the business cycle, with forecast deficits of nuclear-disaster status, how can it be important to repeal the estate tax? Isn't there enough income and wealth inequality in America? Don't we need the revenue? How on earth can any social good come from making taxes on the rich even lower than they are? How does this bind the nation together in time of war?
 Don't get me wrong about this one, either. My father died in 1999. My sister paid a stunning tax on his estate and I would have preferred to keep the money. But my father was intensely grateful to this country for the opportunities it had afforded him. So are my sister and I. We don't see any unfairness in paying back to the government that pays the soldiers and marines and pilots and sailors who defend us and allowed our little family to move to the suburbs. (Actually my sister lives in Brooklyn, but that's another story.)
 Why should the very rich not pay their fair share of the burdens of government? I could see a different argument if we were not hundreds of billions in the red, but in the real world, how can repeal or a drastic cut in the estate tax make social, moral or fiscal policy sense?
 HERE'S my final puzzle: in a world that is clearly going down the tubes, where the forces of barbarism are on the march and the forces of civilization cannot stop them, why don't we all spend a large part of every day being grateful we are where we are? 
 This country, with all of its problems, with all of its inequality and puzzles, is a verdant, lovely garden compared with the shrieking lunacy in so much of the world outside it. Let's appreciate it enough to keep it. 
 Every question and criticism I make is within the context of a deep pride and thankfulness for being in America. I wake up in America the way I wake up in my own skin, to paraphrase my new hero, Philip Roth, and it's an old skin, but it's mine and I love it.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Everybody's Business column last Sunday, about growing inequities in the economy, referred incompletely to the tax payment on the estate of the late father of the writer, Ben Stein. Both he and his sister paid the tax, not just his sister.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); LABOR FORCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); TAX RELIEF (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRICE FIXING (76%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States Economy; Taxation; News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: Benjamin Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



85 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2471 words

HEADLINE: Coffee, and Hope, Grow in Rwanda

BYLINE: By LAURA FRASER

DATELINE: BUTARE, Rwanda 

 BODY:
OVER the last dozen years, the view from Gemima Mukashyaka's small coffee garden in the lush emerald-green hills of southwestern Rwanda has changed. In 1994, after the genocide that killed 800,000 people, it was a site of devastation, chaos and abandonment. Five years ago, when worldwide coffee prices spiraled downward, her neighbors in the densely populated region near Butare were uprooting their coffee trees and planting quick-growing food crops to survive. 
 But today, there's a clean coffee processing station nearby, and sprouted around it are two restaurants, a pharmacy, a bank, six hair salons, and just last week, the village's first Internet cafe.
''My coffee gave me hope for a better future,'' Ms. Mukashyaka, 29, said. At last harvest, her coffee, sold through a farmers' cooperative to a gourmet coffee roaster in the United States, fetched three times the price it did five years ago. 
 Rwanda, a tiny East African country recently rent by a famously savage civil war, has found hope in that most colonial of crops: coffee. By riding booming demand in the developed world for specialty brews -- and, to a certain extent, by turning its own challenges to its advantage -- Rwanda has made premium coffee-growing a national priority. That has not only brought in a trickle of money to a country with little else to trade, but provided a stage on which one-time blood enemies can reconcile their terrible history.
 ''By improving the quality of their coffee, about 40,000 of Rwanda's 500,000 coffee farmers have at least doubled their incomes,'' said Kevin J. Mullally, who runs the office of the United States Agency for International Development, or A.I.D., in Kigali, the Rwandan capital. ''Coffee has played a crucial role in the positive changes in Rwanda.'' 
 Since 2001, A.I.D. has invested $10 million in helping Rwandans improve the quality of their coffee, mainly by providing farmers' cooperatives and small entrepreneurs with financing for washing stations and training in their use. The Rwanda government's goal is to make all coffee produced in the country specialty coffee by 2008.
 At the washing stations, or wet mills, farmers clean, sort, pulp and dry coffee cherries -- the bright red berrylike fruit produced by coffee trees. Then the beans, or seeds, that they contain can be sold to the lucrative specialty market, where demand and prices remain relatively high even when conventional coffee prices dip.
 The big canned coffee companies currently pay about $1 a pound for C-grade coffee beans, while the higher-grade specialty coffees preferred by Starbucks, Green Mountain and other chains generally fetch about $1.50 a pound or more. In Rwanda, premium roasters will pay as much as $3.50 a pound for the best beans.
 When these prices are paid to cooperatives, instead of to private dealers, the profits go directly to farmers, 20 percent of whom are widows and orphans because of the genocide. In the United States, gourmet coffee has generally accounted for 15 percent of the market, but 40 percent of the revenue (currently $11 billion, up from $7.6 billion in 2000), so roasters are eager to develop relationships with cooperatives that can deliver consistently high-quality coffee.
 Rwanda is still a desperately poor country, with a per-capita economic output of only $1,500. Sixty percent of Rwandans live below the poverty line, and even though 90 percent are engaged in subsistence agriculture, food production hasn't kept pace with the population growth. Rwanda is a landlocked country that is the most densely populated in Africa -- 8.6 million people live in an area slightly smaller than Maryland. The country has few natural resources.
 Until the 1990's, coffee accounted for 60 percent of total exports, but that declined to about 20 percent in 2001 because of the economic devastation of the genocide and a worldwide crash in coffee prices. Since then, the government has focused on increasing the volume and quality of coffee exports as it tries to revive the economy; coffee now accounts for 30 percent of exports, totaling $35 million, which is expected to double this year, Mr. Mullally said.
 Before joining the Maraba coffee co-op, Ms. Mukashyaka's life could hardly have been less hopeful. The sixth of nine children born to relatively prosperous coffee farmers -- they had 800 trees, while the average Rwandan farmer had 175 -- Ms. Mukashyaka was entering high school when the genocide erupted. The Butare region was one of the poorest in the country, and the most devastated in the genocide, where Hutu extremists attempted to massacre all Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
 MS. MUKASHYAKA said she escaped death because she was visiting her Hutu godmother when most of her family was tortured and murdered. After her godmother betrayed Ms. Mukashyaka's Tutsi ethnicity to the Interahamwe, the Hutu extremist killers, Ms. Mukashyaka was ordered to dig her own grave. 
 A young Hutu intervened, bought her from the killers and kept her against her will. When the war was over, Ms. Mukashyaka said she left the man to go to a refugee camp with her two surviving younger sisters. 
 When she returned, 16 and pregnant, to the family's plantation, it was in ruins, but the orphans struggled to maintain it. ''It was the only heritage from our parents,'' Ms. Mukashyaka said.
 After lean years of selling coffee cherries to the nearest collectors for a low price, Ms. Mukashyaka joined Maraba in 2001. It was Rwanda's first coffee cooperative and the initial experiment of A.I.D.'s Partnership to Enhance Agriculture in Rwanda Through Linkages. 
 The partnership, which is known by its acronym as the Pearl project and is directed by Timothy T. Schilling of Texas A.& M. University, has since made a 300 percent return on its investment, with 90 percent of its revenue being paid to farmers. Pearl has promoted the production of higher-grade coffee by organizing farmer co-ops and training their members in farming techniques, coffee processing, quality control, marketing and by building relationships directly with the roasters who buy coffee.
 By bringing villagers together to work toward a common economic goal, Mr. Schilling said, co-ops have helped Rwandans with the monumental task of reconciliation, since genocide widows work side by side with women whose husbands are in jail for participating in the killing. 
 Before the co-ops, the social fabric of the coffee-growing areas was destroyed, Mr. Schilling said, but now the tidy washing stations, planted with flowers like community gardens, serve as a place for people to come together and work, sorting coffee, talking about their common project. ''What's reconciliation if it's not people who have conflict getting together and talking?'' he said.
 With a new washing station, the Maraba co-op sold 37,500 pounds of fully washed coffee -- enough to fill an entire standard 40-foot shipping container -- to Community Coffee, a family-owned coffee roaster and retailer in Baton Rouge, La., in 2001. ''The coffee was excellent,'' said Carl R. Leonard, Community Coffee's vice president of green-coffee procurement.
 After joining the co-op, Ms. Mukashyaka doubled her coffee earnings in one year. She also grew less isolated and less distrustful of her neighbors, since she had people to talk to at the washing station and in co-op meetings. 
 With the co-op's support, she borrowed money from a bank to help maintain the rest of the plantation, replacing some old trees. She was able to send her child to school, buy fertilizer for next year's crop and replace rags with second-hand clothing. A job at the coffee processing station helped her repay her loan; now she is one of the directors of the co-op, which has more than 2,000 members. ''I am very proud of my coffee,'' she said.
 The pride is evident in the product. Partly because of abundant labor, which allows farmers to pick through and hand-sort cherries, the coffee that goes to market is exceptionally clean, or free of imperfect beans. Geoff Watts, who oversees coffee buying for Intelligentsia Coffee and Tea Inc., a premium roaster based in Chicago, said, ''Rwanda's gone from zero to sixty, from a complete unknown in the specialty coffee industry to becoming the source of some of the cleanest coffees in East Africa.''
 Five years ago, all Rwandan coffee sold at the C-grade, or lowest-quality, price. Now, demand for fully washed Rwandan coffee (about 7 percent of the crop) far exceeds supply. ''The emergence of Rwandan specialty coffee on the global market is stunning,'' said Michael D. Ferguson, a spokesman for the Specialty Coffee Association of America, a trade group in Long Beach, Calif. ''Everyone inside the specialty coffee industry is excited about it.'' 
 Costco will begin offering Rwandan beans in September. Starbucks featured Rwandan coffee -- at $22 a pound, as one of its exceptional ''Black Apron'' offerings -- and buys it regularly for its blends.
 Cursed with a tragic history, Rwanda is nevertheless blessed with particularly good coffee-growing conditions: high altitude, volcanic soil and plenty of sun and equatorial mist. ''The coffees are wonderfully sweet, either bright with clear citric characteristics, or plush and full of berry and chocolatelike flavors,'' Mr. Watts, of Intelligentsia Coffee, said.
 Specialty roasters in the United States have played a direct role in improving the quality of Rwandan coffee, and have built close relationships with cooperatives. Mr. Watts, for example, was one of several American roasters who volunteered in 2002 to train Rwandans to ''cup'' coffee, or identify quality characteristics by tasting, in a program and lab created by the Pearl project.
 ''Once farmers start to taste their coffee, it opens their taste buds and their eyes, and they start looking at their trees differently,'' says Paul Katzeff, founder of the Thanksgiving Coffee Company in Fort Bragg, Calif., who developed the training. ''They become not just farmers, but craftsmen.''
 Some specialty coffee companies market their Rwandan coffees with a humanitarian message. Thanksgiving sells Gorilla Fund Coffee, giving $2 a package to the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund International to protect Rwanda's 380 endangered mountain gorillas. ''The message is 'save the gorillas,' but we're helping farmers have a hope for the future,'' Mr. Katzeff said. 
 At Thousand Hills Coffee in Boston, the message is more direct. ''I'm selling coffee to bring awareness about the genocide and about what's good in Rwanda now,'' Stephen L. Coffey, the owner, said. ''Our country stood by and did nothing in '94, but we can still make a difference.'' 
 For other companies, the story of Rwanda's survivors is secondary to the distinctive taste of its coffee. ''We promote the quality of the coffee and explain the circumstances behind the communities as a back story,'' said Lindsey Bolger, the chief coffee buyer at Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, in Waterbury, Vt. ''We're appealing to people's palates, not their passions -- but then they become more engaged.''
 Rwanda's ambassador to the United States, Zac Nsenga, called the approaches synergistic. ''The more you consume coffee from Rwanda, the more you give Rwanda hope,'' he said. ''It's the quality and the story behind it that makes it special.''
 Until recently, Rwandans had little interest in improving their coffee, a crop introduced to the country by its Belgian colonial rulers. The colonial government made coffee-growing compulsory in 1933, requiring Rwandans to plant coffee on at least a quarter of their farms, which were then about a half-acre in size and used mainly for subsistence. ''Rwandans don't drink coffee because of its political background,'' Mr. Nsenga said. ''They prefer tea.''
 From the late 1960's until the genocide, most of Rwanda's coffee was sold to Rwandex, a virtual monopoly controlled by the postcolonial government, for whatever price the company would offer, so farmers had no incentive to pick out the bad cherries. After the genocide, coffee farms were essentially dormant while other countries increased production by planting higher-yielding plants that were more resistant to pests and sun, but produce inferior-tasting coffee. Rwandans never ripped out their heirloom Bourbon arabica trees, which many connoisseurs now treasure. ''Because of the genocide and its aftermath, Rwanda had an accidental advantage,'' Ms. Bolger of Green Mountain said. ''Finding those trees was cause for celebration.''
 The world discovered Rwandan coffee after Paul Kagame was sworn in as president in 2000 and focused on coffee as one of the handful of enterprises that could revive the devastated economy.
 Worldwide, overproduction of high-yielding varieties caused conventional coffee prices to bottom out, but specialty coffee prices remained relatively strong. President Kagame liberalized coffee trade, sold the government's interest in Rwandex and began working with A.I.D. to develop specialty coffee. 
 He has taken a direct role in selling the coffee to the United States, meeting with specialty coffee company executives, including Howard D. Schultz of Starbucks last May. The strategy has paid off: specialty coffee exports have jumped, and Rwanda's economy is growing more than 5 percent annually. 
 In an e-mail message, President Kagame wrote: ''The significant achievement in exporting specialty coffee over the past three years provides hope to many Rwandan farmers that they can realize increased income through value addition.''
 GENERALLY, co-op members share 70 percent of the profits among themselves and reinvest the remainder in the co-op for management, marketing, equipment, training and other expenses. Co-op members are able to sell directly to the roaster, cutting out brokers and wholesalers, and learn about buying, selling and bookkeeping in the process. 
 Co-ops also provide their members with social support. ''After the genocide, I feared other people's reaction when they got to know that my husband is in jail, so it was not easy to join the co-op,'' said Gemma Uwera, a 53-year-old mother of eight whose husband is accused of a genocide crime. ''Now I have friends, I meet regularly with widows of genocide, and we plan how we can help each other if someone has a problem.''
 Christian Ruzigama, 43, left his 300-tree coffee plantation in 1994, and returned to find his house destroyed and the plantation in shambles. At the co-op's washing station, he has become an expert in fermenting the beans. He has earned enough money to send his children to school, buy health insurance, a cow and two goats, and is planning on building a new house. At the co-op, he said, no one is focused on the past any more.
 ''I think the Rwandan future will be bright,'' he said. ''Coffee is our new source of life.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Women at the Maraba cooperative sorting coffee cherries, so that only the choicest ones will be processed. (Photo by Gilles Tordjeman)(pg. 1)
 Gemima Mukashyaka, orphaned by the tribal genocide of 1994, has persevered in restoring her family farm. (Photo by Union Coffee Roasters)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); COFFEE FARMING (89%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); WAR CRIMES (77%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (77%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (55%) Coffee; Small Business; Cooperatives; Foreign Aid; Farmers; Foreign Service; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Coffee

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%) Agency for International Development

PERSON: Laura Fraser

GEOGRAPHIC: RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%) Rwanda

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



86 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 6; Arts and Leisure Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2340 words

HEADLINE: Build Your Dream, Hold Your Breath

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
ON a rapidly gentrifying corner of Brooklyn's Fort Greene neighborhood, the new location of the Museum of Contemporary African Diasporan Arts, or MoCada, features a reception area with floor-to-ceiling windows, beige and white walls, and blond blocks of wood stacked into a latticework pattern. The names of cities around the globe where Africans have migrated are affixed to the blocks and walls in a whimsical interpretation of geography.
 The new site, which opened in May, marked a new phase in the life of the museum, which was founded in 1999 on the fourth floor of a Bedford Stuyvesant brownstone. In the new 1,600-square-foot space, whose $425,000 cost was paid for with city and state money, exhibits are no longer confined by the idiosyncrasies of an old apartment. Instead they are mounted purposefully, using rolling walls designed by architects at Studio Sumo, a local firm. 
Better space, improved artistic mission: it's a mantra that is being taken up all over town. In what amounts to a cultural building boom, more than 60 arts institutions spread across the five boroughs -- from smaller community organizations like MoCada to citadels of culture like the Morgan Library -- are all undergoing or have recently completed architectural renovations or new construction. Fifty-two of the projects, representing an aggregate cost of $2.8 billion, are now highlighted at the Center for Architecture in Greenwich Village, in ''City of Culture: New Architecture for the Arts.'' Strolling around the exhibition --which is fittingly installed in a space that opened just three years ago -- one is struck by the sheer volume of activity in the city. 
 The Bronx Museum of the Arts is getting a new $19 million building with irregular panels of metal and glass for its facade. In Brooklyn the Weeksville Heritage Center, an African-American historical society, is building a 19,000-square-foot, $14 million, performance and educational program space in Bedford-Stuyvesant. Even the Staten Island Zoo is undertaking an $11 million renovation and expansion of its 70-year-old reptile house, where it will showcase more than 100 different species of amphibians and reptiles, including crocodiles and king cobra snakes.
 All of this work speaks to New York's continuing vitality. But as with any building boom -- be it in condominiums, office towers or museums -- the specter of overbuilding looms. Even in New York, famous for its smorgasbord of arts offerings, could there be too much of a good thing?
 ''The danger with capital projects is that the creation of the capital project exhausts the resources of the organization, and then it doesn't have the operating budget to run it,'' said Adrian Ellis, chief executive of AEA Consulting in New York and London, whose clients include City Opera, El Museo del Barrio and the Museum of the City of New York. ''You have to judge an organization not by where it lives but by what it does. The splendid building is only part of the equation. The other part is the quality of the programming and the resources they can bring to bear on the programming.''
 Arts leaders argue that as cultural institutions in many other international cities -- including London, Shanghai, Toronto and of course Bilbao -- are building flashy new buildings, New York can't afford not to keep up. What's more, they say, with cultural tourism here on an upswing, they are outgrowing their current homes. Some smaller organizations that spent years slogging away in other people's spaces are now coming of age and want new buildings to help take them to the next level of exposure. That exposure comes at a price, however, and almost nowhere higher than in New York, which makes some arts organizations proceed with caution. 
 MoCada originally considered an even bigger expansion, to a $1.5 million space, but Laurie Cumbo, its founder and executive director, said, ''We weren't ready.'' Since the museum still has to raise most of the money it needs to cover staff salaries, utilities and the cost of mounting exhibitions from public sources or private donors, she said, ''it would have been a case of us expanding too quickly without having the expense money to catch up with it.''
 The New Museum of Contemporary Art, on the other hand, wasn't focusing on economic consequences when it planned a new $50 million building, said Lisa Phillips, its director. ''The idea was really to build something innovative and distinctive that would broadcast the museum's mission of a shifting and dynamic culture,'' she said. ''In doing so it would be more identifiable in the public's mind.'' It selected a design by the Tokyo architects Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa that resembles a stack of aluminum-clad boxes. Ms. Phillips added that the building wasn't constructed so that ''we could get a higher admission price.''
 Many of these expansions have been undertaken with significant help from the city, and even Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg himself. The Department of Cultural Affairs budget for building projects is the largest in the city's history: $865 million from 2006 through 2010, up from a $339.6 million planned budget for the 2001-4 period, earmarked for small neighborhood groups as well as big established institutions.
 ''We think it's an incredibly important form of investment in culture but also neighborhood investment,'' said Kate D. Levin, the city's cultural affairs commissioner. ''Cultural facilities make a huge contribution in ancillary ways in terms of serving neighborhood businesses and being beacons of safety and pride in communities.'' She added, ''The value of these institutions goes way beyond the dollars.''
 Clearly the arts world operates on a different economic model than the commercial sector does. It does not solely depend on operating revenues -- i.e., ticket sales -- and its backers do not expect to be rewarded with a profit. But even those arts advocates who justify these projects based on their intangibles tend to be well versed on their economic benefits. The Alliance for the Arts, a nonpartisan, nonprofit arts advocacy and research group that is a principal sponsor of the Center for Architecture exhibition, reported in 2003 that the economic impact of cultural construction projects in New York -- including factors like jobs created and collateral spending in the city -- between 1997 and 2002 was $2.3 billion, with an anticipated impact of $2.7 billion for the period from 2003 through 2006.
 On the ground the impact is easy to see. After the Pregones Theater, which produces Latin American work, opened its 130-seat theater last fall on Walton Avenue in the South Bronx, several restaurants and cafes moved in nearby, Jorge B. Merced, its associate artistic director said. He added that in the four years since the group began building a studio and rehearsal space, housing prices on its street have nearly quadrupled. At the 3-Legged Dog Theater in Manhattan, Kevin Cunningham, its executive artistic director, said that several restaurants on Greenwich Street, where the group has opened a new performance space, had extended their hours to take advantage of spillover business from the theater. 
 IT can work on a larger scale too: leaders of the Brooklyn Academy of Music suggest that it has brought in new restaurants and boutiques into the neighborhood. (Rising residential real estate prices might also be responsible.) The nonprofit BAM Local Development Corporation is leading a $650 million redevelopment project ($80 million of that supplied by the city), including a new home for the Theater for a New Audience, a Shakespearean and classical theater company, in a glass pavilion designed by Frank Gehry and Hugh Hardy.
 Andrew Zimbalist, an economist at Smith College, said that the collateral economic benefits of such projects aren't what really matters. Instead, he said, people should regard them as they do parks and playgrounds. ''Nobody in their right mind says we should build a children's playground on Seventh Avenue and 72nd Street so we can lift the New York City economy. That's not why you do that. You do that to enrich the quality of life for the residents.''
 But Allen R. Sanderson, an economist at the University of Chicago, offered a different perspective on why the financial analysis may be misleading: ''I suspect it doesn't make a whole lot of economic difference, in the sense that if somebody goes to new museum Y, that's just old museum X they don't go to,'' he said. ''They're spending about the same amount of money and time in the new environment as opposed to the old one. It's a zero-sum game at that point. Somebody wins and somebody loses.'' 
 That analysis has implications far beyond the bottom line. Regardless of how many dollars are available for these expansions, are enough bodies available? Is there enough of an audience to fill all these big new buildings? Or can supply outstrip demand, even in the realm of culture, and even in a city like New York? 
 For the most prestigious institutions, it's clear that huge new architectural projects can draw in new audiences: people who might never have visited, or in the case of tourists, people who might never even have visited New York if not for the new structure. The Museum of Modern Art has seen its average number of visitors rise to 2.5 million from about 1.5 million a year before its new granite and glass renovation, said Glenn Lowry, MoMA's director. He expects average visitor numbers eventually to settle in at around 2.1 million. ''I don't know that we can maintain the current level ad infinitum, but it's far more than we ever anticipated,'' he said.
 And Reynold Levy, who as president of Lincoln Center is leading a $650 million redevelopment project, said: ''Your attendance increases because people are curious and interested in the new facility. It's a short-term phenomenon that, if managed well, can become a long-term phenomenon.''
 For some small groups the effect can be even more pronounced: the difference between a presence in the city and almost total invisibility. Such has been the experience of MoCada, where glowing windows beckon to passers-by who might otherwise never have even heard of the museum. ''Before you had to know that we were there in order to come visit,'' Ms. Cumbo said. ''Now people are intrigued by the architecture even if they do not know what kind of art we have inside, so the architecture can bring them in.'' Ms. Cumbo, who said the museum used to have about 1,500 visitors a year at its old site, hopes to bring in about 10,000 a year now.
 But at other smaller organizations, the enthusiasm for a new facility can fade quickly. ''The challenge is whether they can sustain the audiences that they'll need to pay for these facilities in the future,'' said Steven Tepper, associate director of the Curb Center for Art Enterprise and Public Policy at Vanderbilt University. ''In the moment of announcing a new campaign, and maybe getting some matching money from the city, that excitement can often be mistaken for long-term sustainable audience growth.''
 Famous names aren't immune either. Nearly five years ago the Guggenheim SoHo closed its doors because it could not draw enough visitors to break even in the historic loft building where the museum occupied the first two floors, now a splashy Prada emporium designed by Rem Koolhaas.
 Some of the arts groups building new structures -- especially the small, local groups -- have tackled this danger head on, using educational programs to build new audiences, and at the same time to reach beyond the usual museum-goers. At the Weeksville Heritage Center, the 35-year-old historical society has preserved four 19th-century frame houses that were once occupied by some of Brooklyn's first free African-Americans. It already focuses on tours, arts and crafts, literacy and historical preservation programs for public-school students. 
 Its new performance and programming space, which will also include a cafe and library and is being financed almost entirely by city money, will extend Weeksville's offering to a broader spectrum of the community. Pamela Green, the center's executive director, said she hopes that the roughly 7,500 people who visit it annually will rise eventually to about 50,000. She also has other revenue-generating ideas: she plans to rent out the performance space for weddings, family reunions and fund-raisers. 
 Given the city's diversity, arts leaders say it can nourish and support a wide variety of organizations -- and their new buildings -- provided that those buildings have a purpose other than satisfying some kind of edifice complex. 
 For now the city and private donors are enthusiastically opening their coffers to arts groups with building dreams, undaunted by any potential glut. ''There's an increasingly widening understanding of the variety of cultural markets and people's tastes for small local theaters, different size venues that produce different kinds of cultural events,'' said Susan V. Berresford, president of the Ford Foundation, which has given Lincoln Center a $15 million grant for its redevelopment project. ''So it doesn't seem to me by any means that New York is saturated.''
 Ultimately each institution must make its own calculation of whether it can justify a significant new building project, and its own guess as to what effect all these simultaneous expansions have on one another. 
 Mr. Zimbalist, the Smith College economist, argues that unlike condos or office buildings, arts organizations don't necessarily compete directly with each other for customers. ''If you get somebody into the arts scene by going to a museum or a concert or whatever it is, then that opens them up to another part of life,'' he said. ''It doesn't make sense to say that if they spend two hours at MoMA there's two hours they can't go to Whitney. It may well be that they go to MoMA and say 'Hey, seeing modern art is interesting' and they go to the Whitney,'' he added, ''instead of watching television.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 13, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture last Sunday with an article on the cultural building boom in New York showed an outdated rendering for a proposed Brooklyn cultural district that would include the Brooklyn Public Library for the Visual and Performing Arts. The library, a project of TEN Arquitectos, has been redesigned, and the district is still being developed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: From the top, projects include the Jewish Children's Museum in Brooklyn
the Bronx Museum of the Arts
the Pregones Theater, also in the Bronx
the Ukrainian Museum, in Manhattan
and Theater for a New Audience, in Brooklyn. (Collage by Andy Chen
renderings and photographs courtesy of Alliance for the Arts)(pg. 1)
More projects, planned or completed, clockwork from top left: Museum of the Moving Image, in Queens
Noguchi Museum, also in Queens
3-Legged Dog Theater in Manhattan
New Museum of Contemporary Art, in Manhattan
and Museum of Contemporary African Diasporan Arts in Brooklyn.
At left, the Alvin Ailey/Joan Weill Center for Dance, in Manhattan, which opened in late 2004
 and the planned Weeksville Heritage Center in Brooklyn. (Renderings and photographs courtesy of Alliance for the Arts)(pg. 22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HISTORY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CITIES (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Culture; Museums ; Architecture; Finances

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE FOR THE ARTS (84%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (59%)

PERSON: Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); UKRAINE (58%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



87 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: The Loneliness Of the Long Theatrical Run

BYLINE: By CELIA McGEE

 BODY:
AT this point Sandy Rosenberg's Kerry blue terrier, Jamie, could probably find his way, like some four-legged Odysseus, to the Winter Garden Theater on Broadway at 50th Street without benefit of human guidance. Ms. Rosenberg, a company member and understudy for the role of Rosie in ''Mamma Mia!,'' has been in the musical almost the entire five years of its New York run, and practically every night of her eight-performance workweek her husband, Sidney Meltzer, walks Jamie the five blocks from their apartment to pick her up when she gets out at 10:30. Jamie gets a great deal of attention from cast and crew, Mr. Meltzer pretend-flirts with his wife's dressing-roommates at the stage door, and Ms. Rosenberg enjoys a companionable stroll home.
 On the other hand, until then Mr. Meltzer, an advertising copy writer for the pharmaceutical industry, sits home alone -- well, there's Jamie -- most evenings. ''Luckily he's a voracious reader,'' Ms. Rosenberg said. ''And I wake up early in the morning to spend a little time with him.'' 
It has all the elegance of an old vaudeville clunker: The good news for a theater professional's nearest and dearest is having that person end up in a long-running show. The bad news? The same.
 Football widows have nothing on the mates of the stage's long-term gainfully employed. Like the relatives of those who work for hospitals, 24-hour stores or the Sanitation Department, these husbands and wives know the hazards of scheduling a family outing with someone committed to performing on Sundays, and twice on Saturdays. A weekend house is also nice, if a couple don't mind needing two cars to accommodate divergent down times. Durable out-of-town or road shows present more problems. 
 As for holidays, ''There's no such thing as Christmas Day, July Fourth, New Year's Eve,'' said Peter Rubie, a literary agent married to Melody Rubie, who has been in ''Phantom of the Opera'' for 14 of its record-breaking 18 years on Broadway, where holiday seasons are the busiest. ''Though they give an early performance for New Year's.'' 
 The occupational hazards grow exponentially for those living in the suburbs, where late-night commuting adds to the stress. All of this could explain ''why there are lots of affairs,'' said Bernard Gersten, executive producer of Lincoln Center Theater, only half-joking.
 A two-actor household brings its own complications to the table, whether because only one has the steady job, with the attendant resentment and ego bruising, or because of child-care problems. And in case anyone thinks the mass of single, fresh-faced hopefuls who populate the theater are exempt, Mr. Rubie noted: ''Dating was interesting. Either dates started at 11:30, or we went out to dinner at 5.''
 In the uncertain business of show business, the chance of a role in an open-ended hit has been known to lead to romance-threatening impulses. ''I had an actor offer to cancel his honeymoon,'' said Elizabeth Williams, a producer of shows like ''Les Miserables,'' ''Cabaret'' and ''Crazy for You.'' 
 The economic incentives are strong if, by some standards, relatively modest. The minimum Broadway salary negotiated by Actors Equity is $1,465 a week for 2006. (Off Broadway is substantially lower.) But established actors in supporting roles can make as much as $300,000 a year, and stars, several times that. A long run has a significant impact on matters like pension, 401(k) and health insurance. 
 ''One of the first things other actors say to me,'' said George Lee Andrews, who has been in ''Phantom'' since it opened in 1988, the longest run of any of the show's performers, ''is, 'Your pension must be terrific.' '' 
 His wife, Marty Morris, an actress who eventually left the business after Mr. Andrews secured his job in ''Phantom,'' said: ''There's never been anything like how high the stakes felt at the 'Phantom' auditions. Because of what a success it had been in London, everyone knew this was a plum job. It gave us a permanent base, we were able to put our children through school without going into debt and buy a little lake house. It's like having a husband with a corporate job.''
 Except that she and her husband get to go to New York Philharmonic rehearsals and movies together during the day. For their children, now grown, Mr. Andrews recalled, ''it meant that I couldn't help with homework at night, so I'd get up in the morning to do it.''
 Ms. Rubie, who has an opera background, used to have to support herself with secretarial work. Mr. Rubie said, ''Mel and I tease each other that 'Phantom' is sort of our golden handcuffs.'' While his wife has postponed her opera career, it is Mr. Rubie's life that has changed the most, especially with the arrival of their son, Benjamin, three years ago. 
 As is true for many in the situation, marrying a show veteran led not just to an unconventional schedule but also a new lifestyle and a reversal of traditional family roles. ''I'm the one who picks Benjamin up from pre-school, gives him his supper and his bath, reads to him,'' he said. They manage a baby sitter once a week, so Mr. Rubie, a published author, can work on his writing. His erstwhile nights as a jazz musician are long gone.
 Eric Cohen, a lawyer, is engaged to Francesca Harper, a former principal with the Frankfurt Ballet now in the ensemble of ''The Color Purple,'' which promises to be around for a while. Since he is a partner in a two-member firm, ''there are times I can work at home, and I take classes at night or go out to dinner with friends,'' he said. ''Summer is hard, because we can't go away on weekends.'' 
 Instead they have found a way to spend more time together through Ms. Harper's dance company, the Francesca Harper Project, which she founded last year. Mr. Cohen is the executive director.
 The security afforded Brenda Braxton by her lengthy affiliation with ''Chicago,'' in which she now plays Velma Kelly, encouraged her to help her husband, Anthony Van Putten, make a significant career shift. ''He was in corrections at Rikers Island,'' she said, ''and he decided he'd had enough, and I decided I'd had enough. He's been working as a personal trainer while we get ready to open BBraxton in September, the first upscale grooming salon exclusively for men in Harlem.''
 Still, no matter how unusual the theater world may seem to outsiders, winning a place in a long-running show can just as easily reinforce old-fashioned social roles. Valerie Wright, a singer and dancer with several Broadway shows under her belt, has stayed home to raise two young sons while her husband, Mark Lotito, has gone from understudy in ''The Producers'' to a stint in ''Fiddler on the Roof'' and now the role of Gyp DeCarlo in ''Jersey Boys.'' 
 ''It's important to him to be the bread winner and the man of the house,'' she said, ''to be a success for our sons, and this is a show he loves and knows will last.'' 
 Mr. Lotito said: ''As our kids get older, she may want to get back in. It's one step, one day at a time.'' 
 Victoria Clark argues that children don't have to become a decisive factor even for single parents when it comes to long runs. After hefty stints in the likes of ''How to Succeed in Business,'' ''Titanic'' and ''Urinetown,'' she just finished her Tony award-winning role as Margaret Johnson in ''The Light in the Piazza.'' Her son, Thomas Luke, is 11, and she divorced when he was little. 
 ''I've always had good friends who were out-of-work dancers or singers or my voice students who took care of him,'' she said. ''It was as consistent as having a nanny, and it helped them out too. The great thing about the New York theater community is that it's the most generous and stable you can imagine, like a second family. And a child grounds a production. T. L. has always been surrounded with love by lots of people who chose not to have children -- because the theater is a really demanding profession, or they were much younger, or gay -- and they delighted in having him around. Everybody has always really chipped in.''
 Felicia P. Fields, who made her Broadway debut as Sofia in ''The Color Purple,'' was forced to take a more radical approach. Because the show's transfer to New York from Chicago happened sooner than expected last fall, Ms. Fields, a single mother with a teenage daughter, Aubriel, still at home there, had to decide quickly whether to bring her daughter with her to New York. ''In the end it was important to me that she stay in the school where she's always been,'' Ms. Fields said. ''They know her there, they know when to discipline her, she has her friends.'' 
 Ms. Fields's son Sidney, who is in his mid-20's, ''has stayed in the house to take care of her, and my sister and my mother live nearby,'' she said. ''My daughter has to check in with them and with me. Now she has to call two places to let us know where she is.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sandy Rosenberg, with her dog, Jamie, and husband, Sidney Meltzer, after another night shift on Broadway. (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)(pg. 4)
 Brenda Braxton and her husband, Anthony Van Putten, outside his soon-to-open hair salon. (Photo by Michael Falco for The New York Times)(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); FAMILY (86%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (85%); CHRISTMAS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DOGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); LITERARY AGENTS (68%); LITERATURE (68%); WRITERS (68%); SUBURBS (60%); CHILD CARE (50%) Theater; Families and Family Life

PERSON: Celia Mcgee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



88 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Derby, Conn.; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: The Little Town That High Prices Forgot

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
WELCOME to Derby, a small town at the confluence of the Housatonic and Naugatuck Rivers, where a dozen decrepit downtown buildings are about to be demolished. 
 It has been a century since Derby's industrial manufacturing heyday, town officials point out. High time, then, that the crumbled brick structures and abandoned factories are cleared out. If necessary, the town can invoke eminent domain to achieve that goal. Its plans call for as many as 700 rental apartments and condominiums, as well as 100,000 square feet of stores, restaurants and offices, and an underground parking garage topped by a park.
And Derby has the United States Supreme Court on its side. In a case last summer involving New London, another down-at-heel Connecticut locale, the court ruled that officials were justified in razing old homes for a development that might help reverse economic decline.
 Emboldened by this, Derby's leaders have spent the last six months helping businesses pack their bags and relocate. At the end of last month, workers started removing asbestos from the empty stores -- places like Fashion Bug and Variety Plus, now cordoned off with orange-and-white-striped police barricades -- to ready them for demolition. 
 ''When you drive by now, it looks like a bombed-out war zone,'' said Mayor Anthony Staffieri, a Republican elected last fall on a redevelopment platform. ''We're getting rid of the negativity, and our citizens are enthused that it's moving forward in a good, progressive way.''
 Just as in New London, however, Derby has holdouts, and as the asbestos was coming out in late July, about 50 people (including a number visiting from New London) met to express angry opposition to the town's plans. 
 Still, they seem to be in the minority. For residents like Jose Izquierdo, the redevelopment holds promise. 
 It is also confirmation that in buying his first home this summer in Derby, he made the right choice. The house is a 1,080-square-foot two-story Cape Cod built in 1943, with three bedrooms, one bath and attached two-car garage. He paid $212,500 and has a $3,500-a-year tax bill.
 Mr. Izquierdo, a maintenance worker at a convalescent home, said he used to live in Fairfield County but could no longer afford it. 
 True, the new home's plumbing and wiring need an upgrade, but Mr. Izquierdo will do the work himself. And, he added, if he and his wife, Nancy, can persuade their neighbors to put up white picket fences like theirs, property values just might increase.

What You'll Find
 With an area of just 5.4 square miles, Derby is Connecticut's smallest town, according to the Connecticut State Library. Long ago, its location between the Housatonic and Naugatuck made it ideal for industry. It depended on water power to run its mills, which in turn created heavy pollution, though that now seems to be a thing of the past. 
 Another sign of change is the renewed interest in the area. New arrivals used to pass Derby by. Today, buyers who start out looking in Fairfield or Trumbull, or in lower New Haven County, in Milford and Orange, are finding similar homes in Derby for a lot less money. 
 Dawning awareness of the town's assets seems to be affecting population numbers. In the 1990 census, Derby had 12,199 residents; last year, according to tax records supplied by the state, it had 12,620. From 1990 to 2000, the state over all was losing residents.
 Area brokers say about 75 percent of Derby's housing stock was built before World War II. Towering Greek Revivals and Queen Annes where factory owners used to live can be found along Caroline, Minerva and Elizabeth Streets. But many of the more impressive ones were carved up to accommodate multiple families long ago. Others are in desperate need of renovation.
 Other than the apartments and condos planned for downtown, Derby has not had much new home construction in recent years, though there are a few two- and three-home developments on the hilly former farmland toward the Seymour border. Many are on larger lots and have sweeping valley views.

What You'll Pay
 Although prices are lower than in Fairfield County, they have jumped about 20 percent a year for the last three years, said Mark Fagan, a sales associate with Stauffer Real Estate, based next door in Ansonia.
 A glance at the Consolidated Multiple Listings Service reveals that no single-family home in Derby in the last two weeks was priced higher than $630,000, and that the average price for a single-family home was about $300,000. That would get a buyer a 1,600-square-foot raised ranch built in the 1950's, with four bedrooms and two baths, on a quarter of an acre. 
 Homes are now staying on the market longer, said Jon Davis, an agent with Hodson Realty, based in Trumbull. Two years ago, most sold within a month of listing, he said; they now tend to linger at least three months and close below asking price.
 ''It's becoming a buyer's market,'' Mr. Davis said, ''though this isn't just a regional trend.''

What to Do
 Derby's nightlife is somewhat scattered, found at restaurants like Twisted Vine, which offers jazz on weekends in a former bank built in 1893. There is also Archie Moore's, part of a popular local burger-and-beer chain, which opened this summer in a former department store. 
 This summer, a Tuesday night concert series held on the town green, with polka, big band and 1950's rock, has kept people downtown after sunset. 
 Opposite the green stands the Sterling Opera House, the first Connecticut building on the National Register of Historic Places. An 1889 Italianate edifice, the opera house once showcased the likes of John Philip Sousa, Amelia Earhart and Harry Houdini. It is under renovation.
 Many residents frequent Osbornedale State Park, which accounts for about 10 percent of Derby's land. It has a fishing pond, hiking trails and picnic areas, as well as a museum and environmental center.
 For water sports, there is also Lake Housatonic -- technically, a stretch of river bracketed between dams. It is home to the Yale crew team; in the summer, the university offers crew lessons for children.
 In recent weeks the big draw has been the Naugatuck River Greenway, a new 1.7-mile path that winds along the tops of dikes and under working railroad bridges, past fishermen casting their lines. 
 ''The rivers have meant so much to Derby, first for fishing and transportation, then as a seaport and for shipbuilding, and then for industry,'' said John Walsh, who heads Derby's Greenway Committee. ''We're glad that recreation is helping people rediscover them.'' 

The Schools
 There are two public elementary schools, a junior high and a high school, serving a total of about 1,600 students.
 Money has been lacking in recent years, but the town is rebounding. The superintendent, Janet M. Robinson, has hired 14 new teachers for the fall. 
 Ms. Robinson, who has been on the job just a year and a half, says she is glad the high school now offers ''distance learning,'' where kids can take highly specialized classes through the Internet in dedicated rooms. 
 The high school, which has about 470 students, offers Spanish and Italian, as well as three advanced placement classes.
 About 88 percent of this year's senior class went on to college, many opting for New England state institutions. Average SAT scores for the 2004-2005 school year, the most recent available, were 463 for the math section and 451 for the verbal, compared with 512 for math and 510 for verbal statewide.
 There is also a popular Catholic school in Derby, St. Mary-St. Michael, which offers prekindergarten through Grade 8. There are also magnet schools in New Haven, in marine sciences or fine arts.

The History
 In the 19th century, the town was only a neighborhood of a much larger Derby. It was called Birmingham, in honor of the then-industrial powerhouse in the British Midlands, and was meant to attract new mills and young workers, according to Robert Novak, executive director of the Derby Historical Society.
 ''The kids came from the farms,'' he said, ''because instead of being a farmhand you could get a job in factories; instead of outhouses they had sewers.'' 
 Over the years, the mills cranked out, among other things, copper wire and pins, which predated glue, staples and zippers as the only way to hold clothes together.
 Many of those factories are gone, victim to floods or disuse. One site, the former Alling Mill, which used to manufacture underwear, will be claimed by the redevelopment. In the 1890's, Mr. Novak said, it was the site of violent clashes between female workers and their male bosses, over issues of pay and working conditions.

The Commute
 Derby lies on a branch line of the Metro-North Railroad. Trains to Grand Central Terminal run infrequently. The trip takes around two hours, with a transfer in Bridgeport. A one-way fare is $16.50. 
 Drivers appreciate Derby's proximity to Route 8, which connects with the Merritt Parkway and Interstate 95. Some residents commute to New Haven, nine miles southeast on Route 34.

What We Like
 Derby's compactness makes it easy to get around on foot or by bike. For its size, it has a remarkable number of historic buildings: a dozen are either landmarks or in landmark districts. If the town pursues its plans to extend the Greenway along both rivers, that will open up even more recreational opportunities. 

Going Forward
 There is a reason that urban renewal of the 1960's and 1970's has left such a bad impression: some bleak, unimaginative buildings that rarely fit into their surroundings, like the former Derby Savings Bank, which is now serving as city hall. Residents will probably be paying closer attention to the architecture this time around.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PEDESTRIANS, TAKE NOTE -- A view of the Housatonic with Derby's newest addition, upper right: the Naugatuck River Greenway, a bike and footpath.
On the Market: 18 Garden Place -- This 106-year-old home has five bedrooms, and two full and three half-baths. It is listed at $499,900. (203) 701-0854
67 Summit Street -- This 1,728-square-foot home, with three bedrooms, two and a half baths and river views, lists for $379,900. (203) 258-7453
 103 Hawthorne Street -- This 1,600-square-foot home, built in 1890, has three bedrooms and two baths. It is listed at $264,900. (203) 734-9385 (Photographs by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)Map of Connecticut highlighting Derby.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (67%) Geographic Profiles

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%)

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Derby (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



89 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Taxing Telecommuters

BYLINE: By Nicole Belson Goluboff. 
Nicole Belson Goluboff, a lawyer, is the author, most recently, of ''The Law of Telecommuting.''

DATELINE: Scarsdale, N.Y. 

 BODY:
WHILE telecommuting was once regarded as a novel accommodation for a few privileged employees, millions of Americans now work from home, and the practice is regularly cited as part of the solution to many of the nation's toughest problems. For good reason: telecommuting can help us manage high gas prices, reduce our foreign oil dependence and ease road congestion. It can expand the economies of rural communities, enable older Americans to defer retirement and expand employment opportunities for the disabled, including our war veterans. It can also enable government and businesses to continue functioning in the event of a terrorist attack, catastrophic storm, flu pandemic or other emergency. 
 Despite these benefits, however, New York State imposes a penalty tax on nonresidents who do work at home for their New York employers. That gives the nonresidents who commute to New York -- including approximately 400,000 people from Connecticut and New Jersey, according to 2000 census data -- powerful reason to think twice before telecommuting. 
Under New York's ''convenience of the employer'' rule, nonresidents employed by New York companies who telecommute some or most of the time may owe taxes to New York both on the income they earn when they come to New York and on the income they earn when they work from home, outside New York. Because a telecommuter's home state may also tax the income earned at home, the telecommuter may be taxed twice on that income. 
 Take Edward Zelinsky, a Connecticut resident and professor at the Cardozo Law School in Manhattan. Professor Zelinsky spent some workdays in New York, teaching classes and meeting with students, and others at home, doing research, writing and grading. Connecticut taxed him on the income he earned in Connecticut. Applying the convenience rule, New York taxed the same income.
 Even if a telecommuter's home state offers the telecommuter a credit for the tax paid to New York on the non-New York income, he may still be penalized. If New York's tax rate is higher than the home state's, for example, the telecommuter may have to pay the New York rate. Further, his tax dollars will support the schools and other public services in New York, where he neither lives nor votes. While that's true for ordinary commuters too, it seems particularly unfair for nonresidents who may come in to the state to work very rarely. 
 Under the convenience rule, a nonresident may be able to avoid the telecommuter tax if he can prove that his telework arrangement is an employer ''necessity.'' But proving necessity is virtually impossible. 
 Until recently, New York took the position that telework was necessary only if the telecommuter's job involved tasks that could not possibly be accomplished in the New York office -- testing firearms or sports cars, for example. But since most work that can be done by telecommuting can also be done in a New York office, few telework arrangements passed muster. 
 Indeed, in a case decided this year, New York determined that a New Jersey resident's telework arrangement was not necessary even though the employer required him to do certain work from home. The employee worked with highly confidential data, and the employer thought the main office was not a secure enough environment in which to use the data. New York's view? The employer could have adapted the office to make it safer.
 In May, New York issued a memorandum purporting to relax its telework tax policy. But the memorandum offered false hope. Under the new policy, telecommuters will still have to prove, in essence, that telework is necessary for their employers, and proving necessity will be just as hard. 
 For example, according to the memorandum, a telecommuter might be able to escape the telecommuter tax if, among other things, the employer pays the telecommuter rent for his home office; the employer specifically identifies the telecommuter's home office as a company place of business in its advertising; the employer maintains a separate telephone listing for the telecommuter's home office; or the telecommuter never uses his home office for personal purposes. As with New York's old policy, very few telecommuters will be able to satisfy such conditions.
 In two recent cases, telecommuters have claimed that, in addition to being unfair, New York's application of the convenience rule to them was unconstitutional. However, the United States Supreme Court refused to hear their claims. 
 One of these telecommuters was Professor Zelinsky; the other was Thomas Huckaby, a Tennessee resident who worked for a New York employer as a computer programmer. New York taxed Mr. Huckaby on 100 percent of his income, even though he spent only 25 percent of his work time in New York. 
 By rejecting these cases, the Supreme Court effectively gave New York -- and any other state -- license to tax telecommuters everywhere. 
 In May 2005, Senator Chris Dodd, a Democrat, and Representative Christopher Shays, a Republican, both from Connecticut, introduced legislation to protect telecommuters nationwide. This legislation would prohibit states from taxing nonresidents on the income they earn when they work from home. The measure, which has support in both houses and has garnered endorsements from both telework and taxpayer advocates, is pending before the House Judiciary Committee and the Senate Finance Committee.
 Because the policy revision New York issued three months ago offered telecommuters no meaningful relief, it seemed merely a ploy to derail the federal bill. Far from obviating a Congressional remedy, however, New York's misleading tactics underscore the need for it. Congress must pass the Dodd-Shays measure and send a clear message to New York. 
 The country needs telework to help address the health, energy, transportation and homeland security challenges before us, and New York's thirst for nonresident revenue simply can't take priority.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUTING (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); DISABLED WORKERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); VETERANS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); CENSUS (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (56%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%); TERRORISM (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); EPIDEMICS (55%); INFLUENZA (55%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Taxation; Working at Home ; Law and Legislation; Labor

PERSON: Nicole Belson Goluboff; Christopher (Repr) Shays; Christopher J (Sen) Dodd

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



90 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Preserving History and a 'Fantasy Feeling' 

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: Silver Spring, Md. 

 BODY:
A JAPANESE pagoda sits perpendicular to a Swiss chalet, and they share a 32-acre historic campus with a Dutch windmill, a Spanish mission-style home, an American bungalow and an Italian villa. In all, there are 12 architecturally distinct homes placed randomly around the historic National Park Seminary in this city just outside Washington.
 Nestled at the tip of Rock Creek Park, the bucolic if overgrown campus in the neighborhood of Forest Glen has been the victim of neglect and vandalism since the late 1970's, when the Army all but abandoned the site as an annex to the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. This once elegant sanctuary, established in 1887, also narrowly escaped demolition. 
The first building constructed in Forest Glen was Ye Forest Inne, a fancy vacation retreat for Washingtonians, which lasted only until 1892. For the next 50 years, the campus underwent extensive building under the auspices of a girls' finishing school, the National Park Seminary, before being annexed by the Army in 1942 for use as a convalescence center for soldiers.
 After a grassroots effort lasting decades to wrest control from the Army and save the historic buildings from demise, the campus is now being transformed into a residential community by the Alexander Company of Madison, Wis., which specializes in salvaging historic structures. And here, that will be quite a job. 
 In addition to overseeing the single-family homes, the Alexander Company will retrofit 50 condominiums and 66 affordable apartments into the Main Building, originally the vacation resort, a shingled Queen Anne that was later stuccoed over; and 10 condos into a neo-Classical gymnasium with a Greek portico and Corinthian columns. The condos will range from $350,000 to more than $1 million, and will average $550,000. The affordable apartments have not yet been priced. 
 ''This is the largest historic renovation project we've undertaken,'' said David Vos, the project manager, while giving a tour of the site. ''And in some ways, it's the most unusual. The campuslike setting is very suburban, but it will take on an urban character as we renovate the historic buildings into modern condos and apartments.'' 
 There will also be 90 town houses constructed on the campus by EYA of Bethesda. A grand ballroom building -- the architectural crown jewel of the campus -- will be renovated and maintained as public space. The overgrown campus will also require extensive restoration, as well as an improved pedestrian link to the Forest Glen Metro station. 
 In order to finance such a sweeping renovation, the Alexander Company is selling off the architecturally unusual single-family homes to bidders who will be required to restore the homes in accordance with the Maryland Historical Trust. Eleven prequalified bidders have been chosen, and Mr. Vos advised the bidders to estimate at a minimum of $600,000. Final bids are due Tuesday and awards will be made on Thursday. 
 ''For years we've been watching the Army let the place deteriorate,'' said Wendy Kern, whose husband, Raymond, has been renovating the Japanese pagoda into what will become a sales office before it will eventually be sold as a single-family home. The Kerns hope to buy it as an investment.
 ''I was amazed that the site was still very much intact,'' said David Overholt, another bidder, whose background is in historic preservation and restoration carpentry. ''My wife and I have gone back and forth about which one would be practical, which one is unique and wonderful,'' he said. ''We love all of them. The variation in architectural styles, it gives it this fantasy feeling.'' 
 That feeling was created by John and Vesta Cassedy, the founders of the girls' finishing school, who were greatly influenced by the 1893 World's Fair, otherwise known as the Columbian Exposition, in Chicago. The Cassedys undertook a building construction spree, which included the internationally styled sorority houses for girls at the finishing school, who were to receive a ''worldly'' education in an otherwise cloistered setting. 
 A second construction spree was undertaken by a headmaster, James Eli Ament, who connected all the outlying structures to the Main Building with covered or enclosed walkways so the girls did not have to be exposed to the elements. 
 The culmination of construction was in 1927 with the grand ballroom building of Dr. Ament's own design. At more than 65 feet, it is still the tallest and most striking structure on campus. The vaulted ceiling, dark oak buttresses and balconies are largely intact, as are classical busts that Dr. Ament brought back from Europe, which still line the upper reaches of the ballroom. Girls were allowed to practice ballroom dancing for half an hour twice a day to music projected by the huge wooden speaker from an original Victrola record player that remains intact. 
 Not so fortunate are sections of the Main Building, which have collapsed four floors down, leaving just a shell. One reason the Alexander Company was selected by Montgomery County, which took possession after the Army relinquished control, is that it was the only bidder that did not recommend demolishing buildings. Only one, a cottage, had to be destroyed, but many of the 27 buildings, 23 dating from 1887 to 1927, have suffered nearly ruinous damage.
 As so often happens, the effort to rescue the site was spearheaded by a grass-roots community group, in this case Save Our Seminary, or SOS, which formed in 1988 and gave tours to raise awareness. Bonnie Rosenthal, one of the earliest members, who later became the executive director, is now groundskeeper for the Alexander Company.
 ''The first tour I took, I went to the top level of the windmill and looked out at the glen, and it was just enchanting,'' Ms. Rosenthal said. ''The first order of business was getting the Army out. But then it almost went to public auction, and that's when SOS asked the county to step forward.'' 
 In April 2004, the county turned possession over to the Alexander Company, which is overseeing what is estimated to be a $110 million investment, including $15 million in tax credits, grants and other public subsidies. 
 Randall Alexander, founder and chief executive of the Alexander Company, credits neighborhood advocates with not only saving the campus from certain ruin but also having the flexibility to understand that not every detail can be saved and new construction will be required to make the project economically viable. 
 ''Community input sometimes scares off developers,'' Mr. Alexander said. ''But it's a unique site -- an arboretum with international architecture -- in a strong market that the community really supports. It will be a challenge. There's a lot of damage, but those are the projects we like to do.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HISTORIC CAMPUS -- The National Park Seminary near Washington has 12 architecturally distinct houses, including a Japanese pagoda, top left. All are being sold. The ballroom, top right, will be renovated and maintained as public space. David Vos, the project manager, walks through the gymnasium, which will be converted into 10 condos. (Photographs by Lisa Chamberlain for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); ARMIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (75%); LEISURE TRAVEL (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); RESORTS (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (62%); VANDALISM (56%) Housing; Historic Buildings and Sites; Restoration and Rehabilitation; National Park Seminary (Silver Spring, Md); Condominiums

COMPANY: ALEXANDER CO INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Alexander Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (93%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (93%)

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (70%) MARYLAND, USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%) Silver Spring (Md)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



91 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Revitalizing a Former Factory Town

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: EDISON 

 BODY:
THIS town named after a father of invention -- Thomas Alva Edison -- is facing the challenge of reinventing itself.
 Edison has already shown it has the mettle for such a challenge: As manufacturing jobs disappeared here in the last decade, Edison continued to attract new businesses and jobs while maintaining stable residential neighborhoods. Just last month, Money magazine put Edison on its list of the 100 Best Small Cities in America, ranking it No. 28, based on criteria like job opportunities, school performance and crime rate.
Still, there are some large empty spaces here that illustrate as plainly as any billboard the challenges that lie ahead. 
 The most glaring empty hole is along Route 1 where the Ford assembly plant used to stand. The Secaucus-based Hartz Mountain Industries purchased the 102-acre site, took down Ford's buildings three years ago and this year proposed an intensive mixed-use Town Center development. The plan was denounced by public officials and residents as too dense, and too uninspired in design, despite Hartz Mountain's earlier efforts to generate public feedback while working on a draft of the plan.
 Three weeks ago, members of the municipal administration proposed formally declaring the site a redevelopment zone so it could have a hand in the design process.
 Meanwhile, two large sites on Route 27 -- a former Revlon plant and a former Frigidaire factory -- have also been mostly vacant for many years. The New York Times Company recently announced that it would close its printing operations in Edison and would be subleasing its plant here by 2008. 
 Developers interested in various sites around Edison have proposed adding large blocks of condominiums to Edison's housing stock. Local officials -- and vocal residents -- have generally been critical of adding any housing that might further burden local schools already pushed to full capacity.
 Town officials rejected a proposal to build 600 apartments, half of them for people age 55 and older, on the Revlon site.
 The proposal for the Ford site that was sent back to the drawing board included 275 age-restricted condominiums, in addition to a 150-room hotel, an office building and a pedestrian-oriented retail area with a movie theater.
 Now, Edison's first age-55-and-over condo development is about to open, based on a plan approved five years ago, in a neighborhood that is already well on its way to revitalization.
 The project, the Village at Historic Clara Barton, where 103 one- and two-bedroom condos are now for sale at prices starting below $200,000, will open for occupancy this fall on Liddle Avenue, just north of Amboy Avenue and Route 1.
 Frank Mazzeo and Guy Celentano, developers based in Mountainside, N.J., who set up a company called Liddle Avenue to build the project, say it dovetails perfectly with the revived and beautified shopping area along Amboy Avenue. It is within walking distance, and residents will also be able to use a free shuttle bus. The Amboy Avenue area also offers quick connections to Route 1, the New Jersey Turnpike, the Garden State Parkway, Route 440, Route 9 and Interstate 287.
 Five years ago, the city passed new zoning ordinances and allocated funds to make street improvements and upgrade facades along Amboy Avenue.
 Now, the sidewalks are broad and brick-lined, the shops look spiffy, and even the bus stops are attractive, notes a local commercial real estate agent, Joe Coyle, who has been instrumental in bringing new developers to the downtown area.
 Mr. Coyle, who said he frequently visited Manhattan for inspiration, said he was working hard to recruit ''New York-style'' retailers to Amboy Avenue.
 The streets are hung with banners noting the historic district named for Clara Barton, a contemporary of Thomas Edison. She lived in the area when she helped set up the American Red Cross two years after Edison lighted his laboratory here with his new invention, incandescent lamps.
 ''This is a fantastic neighborhood for older adults,'' said Mr. Mazzeo, one of the Liddle Avenue developers, whose project has three buildings set on 4.5 acres. ''It is only a half-hour from Manhattan, with great access, and while prices have gone haywire in the last 7 to 10 years in the region, this provides a very moderately priced option.''
 One-bedroom apartments in two styles are priced at $174,900 and $185,00, Mr. Mazzeo said. Those units have been attracting interest among ''single seniors'' who live in the area and want to keep living close to long-time friends, he said.
 Two-bedroom units at the Village are priced at $214,000, $235,000 and $266,000 for three different designs.
 ''There is a real need for this type of project,'' said Mr. Celentano, a New Jersey entrepreneur, who founded Celentano Foods at age 21. ''Especially in the later years, people from the area, from a very tight-knit community, need a place where they can live more affordably -- and we're already seeing huge interest within a 5-to-10-mile radius.''
 The town has agreed to provide free shuttle bus service for Village residents, making stops at local malls and parks as well as the Amboy Avenue shopping district, which many who have lived locally already know well, he said.
 ''I can't speak to what Edison should do with its other redevelopment sites,'' Mr. Celentano added, ''but we see evidence that this project on this site is going to seem ideal to a lot of people.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 20, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The ''In the Region'' article in some copies on Aug. 6 about new developments in Edison, N.J., had an incorrect credit on the rendering of the Amboy Avenue shopping area. It was by Lam Development, not Joe Coyle.

GRAPHIC: Photos: NEIGHBORHOOD RENEWAL -- Renderings of the revived shopping area along Amboy Avenue, above, and the Village at Historic Clara Barton, which is to have 103 condos. (Photos by Joe Coyle, top
 Liddle Avenue L.L.C., bottom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (72%); CRIME RATES (70%); HOME PRICES (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); RETAILERS (60%) Area Planning and Renewal; Condominiums; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Factories and Industrial Plants ; Education and Schools

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (66%); HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); NYT (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin; Frank Mazzeo; Guy Celentano

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) Edison (NJ); Edison (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



92 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Elizabeth Perry, Max Grant

 BODY:
Elizabeth Anne Perry and Richard Maxwell Grant were married yesterday in Manhattan. The Rev. Ben W. Curry, a United Methodist minister and an uncle of the bride, officiated at the Yale Club. 
 Ms. Perry, 32, will keep her name. She is a high school English teacher at the Berkeley Carroll School in Brooklyn, and is a co-director of the Klingenstein Summer Institute, a program of Columbia University Teachers College that provides instruction and training to new teachers at private schools. She graduated from Swarthmore and received a master's degree in education from Harvard.
She is the daughter of Kathleen and John J. Perry of Manhattan. The bride's father retired as a vice president and the general manager of the consumer products division of the Block Drug Company, the health and beauty-aid manufacturer in Jersey City. Her mother, a social worker, retired as the director of supportive and palliative care at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan.
 Mr. Grant, 36, is known as Max. In May, he received a master's degree in divinity from Yale, and was until June an assistant chaplain at Kent School in Kent, Conn. This month he is to begin training as a hospital chaplain in the clinical pastoral education program of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Hospital in Manhattan. He graduated cum laude from Yale and received a master's in American civilization from the University of Pennsylvania.
 He is the son of Jane and Richard D. Grant of Clinton, Conn. The bridegroom's mother is an architectural designer practicing in Clinton. His father retired as a managing director for project finance from the investment banking unit of J.P. Morgan Chase; he arranged financing for infrastructure development in third world countries; he is now a project-finance consultant in Clinton.
 The bridegroom's previous marriage ended in divorce.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER EDUCATION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); HEALTH CARE (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); INVESTMENT BANKING (63%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); PALLIATIVE CARE (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (70%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (70%); GSK (LSE) (70%); BIOC (EGX) (70%); JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



93 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Q & A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Sorting Out Conflicts of Interest

 BODY:

Q. At our recent co-op meeting, several shareholders questioned whether it was appropriate to have a real estate agent who sells apartments in the building serving on the board and on the admissions committee. Some lawyers said it was not illegal, but one said it was unethical. Does this constitute a conflict of interest?

A. ''Directors are required by law to have an undivided loyalty to the best interests of the corporation,'' said Eva Talel, a Manhattan co-op lawyer. ''So while permitting a shareholder and real estate broker who sells apartments in the building to serve as a director of the co-op is not illegal, it can give rise to a conflict of interest between that director's duty of undivided loyalty to the co-op and his or her economic interest in the building.'' 
In addition, Ms. Talel said, having a real estate broker serve on a board can create the appearance of impropriety or unfairness because owners selling their apartments and prospective purchasers may believe that the director/broker has a built-in advantage in obtaining board approval. ''And that can undermine shareholder confidence in the integrity of the approval process,'' she said. 
 Finally, statements that the director/broker might make to prospective apartment purchasers about board policies can expose the co-op corporation to claims that the individual was speaking on behalf of the corporation, she said. 

Tenants Get Repairs, And Owners Don't

Q. I recently bought a co-op. I needed help fixing a leaking drain pipe and asked the superintendent. He told me that if I'm an owner, he cannot help me, but if I were a renter, he could. Is it legal for a superintendent to help only renters?

A. ''While a precise answer would depend on the provisions of the cooperative's governing documents, the policy described is not uncommon in co-ops where some nonpurchasing rent-regulated tenants continue to occupy some apartments,'' said Aaron Shmulewitz, a Manhattan co-op lawyer.
 Generally, he said, shareholders in a co-op are responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement of all plumbing fixtures that are visible in their apartment -- including drains -- while the co-op is responsible for plumbing within the walls.
 ''Under that principle, many co-ops prohibit building employees from doing any maintenance or repairs on fixtures for which shareholders are responsible,'' Mr. Shmulewitz said.
 Under New York law, he said, nonpurchasing rent-regulated tenants are entitled to receive the same services they were receiving before a co-op conversion. ''Since maintenance and repairs of plumbing fixtures were performed by building employees prior to the conversion,'' he said, ''the co-op is obligated to continue to provide such services following conversion.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); APPROVALS (77%); ETHICS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (69%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



94 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Q & A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 425 words

BYLINE: By ROGER COLLIS

 BODY:

Do you have any information about long-haul, low-cost airlines? -- John G. L. Barclay, Barcelona

Following the phenomenal success of no-frills, low-cost airlines in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, we are now seeing the emergence of budget airlines operating on international long-haul routes. 
 For instance, Zoom Airlines (www.flyzoom.com), a Canadian carrier, operates low-cost service from eight Canadian cities to London (Gatwick), Glasgow, Manchester, Cardiff and Belfast in Britain, and Paris. Zoom operates Boeing 767-300's with 268 seats. Economy passengers get a 31-inch seat pitch and meals and drinks; premium economy offers 36 inches of legroom and an extra baggage allowance. A search recently turned up round-trip fares between London and Toronto this month starting at $205 in economy, $355 in premium economy. 
 Air Sahara (www.airsahara.net), based in New Delhi, operates a network of services within the subcontinent and between Delhi and London, and Delhi and Singapore. One-way fares from London (Heathrow) to Delhi start at around $235. Beginning in October, the start-up budget carrier Oasis Hong Kong Airlines (www.oasis-air.com) will operate Boeing 747-400's, with seat-back entertainment and hot meals, though passengers can order a ''gourmet food service'' at extra cost. Oasis has announced one-way fares between London (Gatwick) and Hong Kong from $141 plus tax. It plans to add service between Hong Kong and Milan, Berlin, Cologne/Bonn and Oakland and Chicago.
 The Scottish airline Flyglobespan (www.flyglobespan.com) operates a fleet that includes Boeing 767-300 aircraft with three classes: no-frills economy with a 30-inch seat pitch (you must buy your own meals and drinks); premium economy with a 34-inch pitch and full meals and drinks service; and business, with 50-inch sleeper seats. The airline operates from Glasgow, Edinburgh and London to more than a dozen European cities, and to Orlando, Fla.; additional routes will be offered this winter. One-way fares from Glasgow to Orlando this month start at about $280; premium economy, $385. 
 Icelandair (www.icelandair.com), a forerunner of cheap trans-Atlantic flights, offers flights between Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Frankfurt, Glasgow, London, Oslo, Paris, and Stockholm (via Reykjavik) and Baltimore/Washington, Boston, Minneapolis/St. Paul, Orlando and New York, with full service at low-cost fares (along with seven other cities in summer only). A recent search for dates this month from New York to London found rates from $762. ROGER COLLIS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIR FARES (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (84%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (78%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (57%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (57%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); MARYLAND, USA (50%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (93%); HONG KONG (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SCOTLAND (90%); FRANCE (88%); ASIA (88%); NETHERLANDS (79%); INDIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ICELAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); ENGLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



95 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2200 words

HEADLINE: The Houses That Wouldn't Move

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY; Nate Schweber contributed reporting in New Jersey for this article.

 BODY:
LYNN AND FRANK BALDUCCI'S house in Bethpage, N.Y., should be a real estate agent's dream: 4br, 2ba, large new EIK, formal LR, family room, new roof and siding, move-in condition.
 The Balduccis put their 1951 colonial on the market in early May. They held seven open houses, drawing 10 or so potential buyers, but they still had not gotten a single offer as of early August -- even after they dropped their asking price to $539,000 from $589,000.
''It's very depressing,'' Ms. Balducci said, adding that at least seven houses in her neighborhood had been on the market for at least as long as theirs. ''It's a little scary for us, too, because we very shortly may be in a position where we have to carry two mortgages.'' 
 The Balduccis, who have a 3 1/2-month-old girl, Emily, are moving to get more space as well as a waterfront location; they have bought a house on a canal off Seaford Creek in Massapequa and are scheduled to close on it in a few weeks. 
 The Balduccis' agent, Peggy Chugkowski, with Prudential Douglas Elliman in Massapequa, tells a story that is becoming increasingly familiar around the region.
 ''A year ago, this house would have sold within two weeks maximum, and they would have easily gotten close to $600,000,'' she said. ''This really shows you what's going on right now. It's like the market just collapsed.''
 Collapsed may be a bit strong, but interviews with brokers throughout the metropolitan region indicate that the booming housing market of the last five years, when houses sold within days and bidding wars were routine, is, in a word, done. 
 Statistics show that the inventory of available houses in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut has soared. Since buyers have more to look at, they are slower to make up their minds, and houses are staying on the market longer. Median sale prices across the region have continued to rise in most places, but not at the double-digit rates the market saw in recent years. Brokers say that after five years of through-the-roof price increases and almost frantic activity, the housing market is settling down to a new normal. While houses that are priced right can still set off bidding wars and sell in a matter of days, it is more common now for them to sit on the market for two to three months, with prices often coming down in the interim. Some houses in the $1 million range and higher have dropped in price by more than $200,000, while lower-priced homes have had smaller percentage decreases.
 In many cases, buyers and sellers have reached a wary stalemate.
 ''We're at a point where sellers don't want to lower their prices and buyers don't want to raise their bids,'' said Roberta Plutzik Baldwin, a broker at Re/Max Village Square in Upper Montclair, N.J. ''Houses that are priced properly are selling, but buyers are now saying, 'Wait a second, the market is stabilizing, so why should I pay $20,000 more when I could pay less?' ''
 Thomas Gallagher, a broker who owns eight Century 21 offices on Long Island, called it a buyer's market.
 ''I've never seen as many open houses as I see now,'' he said. 
 Mr. Gallagher said that in light of the changing climate, real estate agents have been pushing harder in recent months to convince sellers that they cannot expect the kind of price increases they saw in recent years.
 ''Agents aren't telling people to get less than a house is worth; they're just getting the asking prices down to where they should be,'' he said. ''People are finally starting to understand that even if they could have gotten more for their house last year, it's not last year.''
 In Nassau County, the median home price at the end of June was $500,000, a 6.3 percent increase over the same month in 2005; the figure for Suffolk County was $410,500, a 6.6 percent increase, according to Pearl M. Kamer, the chief economist for the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business group.
 But comparable yearly price increases in the last five years ranged from 11.1 percent to 21.1 percent. ''This year's single-digit increases will probably translate into selective declines in home prices sometime next year,'' Dr. Kamer said.
 Debi Orr, a real estate broker with Keller Williams Realty in Ridgefield, Conn., said home sellers there had been accustomed to looking at what houses in their neighborhoods had sold for in recent months and adding $100,000 to the asking price. 
 ''In the past you could add that cushion into the price and it would still sell, but you can't do that this year,'' she said. ''Now you have to pay attention to what the market indicates and not overshoot.'' 
 Serious sellers, she added, are willing to listen to that advice.
 Jeffrey Boris, for example, who lives in Ridgefield with his wife, Christine, and their two children, said he initially thought he could have sold his three-bedroom, 2,000-square-foot colonial farmhouse there this year for more than $700,000, based on what others in his neighborhood had sold for. But Ms. Orr persuaded him to set his sights lower and helped him put the house on the market for $679,000 in mid-May. ''Her counsel turned out to be very good,'' Mr. Boris said. The house sold in five days for $685,000. 
 THE new home that Mr. Boris bought, on the other hand, had been overpriced, he said, and it stayed on the market for close to nine months. The four-bedroom, 5,100-square-foot Georgian colonial, on an acre of property, went on the market last summer for $1.6 million. By the time Mr. Boris looked at it, the asking price had dropped to $1.37 million, and he bought it for $1.25 million. ''It was exactly the scenario we were looking for on the purchase side,'' he said.
 Terry Egan, editor in chief of publications for the Warren Group, which provides real estate data in New England, said that if current trends held in Connecticut, average home prices would probably drop a little by the end of the year. ''But to put it all in perspective, what we saw in the last five years was unsustainable,'' he said. ''What we're seeing now is probably necessary and overdue.''
 Another clear sign that home sales are undergoing a market correction is the growth in inventories. In Nassau County, the inventory of homes for sale was up by 75 percent in June 2006 over the previous year, to 9,934 from 5,662. Inventory in Suffolk County went up by 65 percent to 13,724 homes in June, compared with 8,318 in 2005, Dr. Kamer said. ''Those are big increases, but they're really just returning to more normal inventory levels,'' she said. 
 In Westchester County, where the median price of a single-family home was $715,000 at the end of June, a 2.1 percent increase from a year earlier, total inventory was up by 30 percent over the previous year, to 7,784 residential units, according to data from the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service. Inventory had dropped as low as 3,000 units in 2001, but the current level is much more typical, said P. Gilbert Mercurio, chief executive of the Westchester Board of Realtors in White Plains. ''We're getting back to a normal market after an abnormal run-up of five years,'' he said. But because it has happened rather quickly, he said, ''it's still being felt because it was a sudden adjustment.'' 
 Richard Gross, an investor from New York City who bought a three-bedroom house in New Rochelle in February 2005, hoping to resell it at a profit after making renovations, said he had had trouble getting the price he wanted. He bought the house for $315,000 and put in more than $100,000 in repairs and renovations, he said.Now, despite having had the house appraised at $555,000 and putting it on the market three months ago, he has yet to receive an offer that exceeds $500,000.
 ''It seems like the boom kind of ended with everybody's talk of the bubble bursting,'' he said. ''I think all the talk actually made it happen.''
 There are several reasons for the increase in inventory, according to George Stone, senior vice president for Sotheby's International Realty in Westchester. Some sellers have put their homes on the market in the hopes of latching onto the housing boom before it ends definitively.
 Mr. Stone also pointed to aging baby boomers who are just now reaching retirement age and therefore considering whether to downsize. But since the demand for the smaller houses and condominiums most often sought by empty-nesters exceeds the current supply in the region, many of those sellers aren't highly motivated. ''A lot of those sellers are interested in moving, but they might not have a place to move to yet, so they won't sell unless they get their price,'' he said.
 The increased inventory naturally leads to homes staying on the market longer. ''People have so much more to look at, and they don't feel the pressure to make a decision in two seconds flat,'' said Louise Brooks, an agent with the Prudential Douglas Elliman office in Locust Valley, N.Y.
 For the last five years until this year, most homes in Hudson and Bergen Counties were selling within a month, according to Phyllis Bixon, regional vice president for Weichert Realtors in northeastern New Jersey. Today, she said, there are some areas where houses stay on the market for 5 to 6 months, even as long as 10 months. 
 ''There are some buyers who feel they want to wait for the bottom, but you never know when the bottom's going to come,'' she said. ''And if I had to guess, I'd say we're not so far from the bottom right now.'' 
 According to the New Jersey Multiple Listing Service, the inventory of single-family homes in Bergen, Hudson, Passaic and Essex Counties was up 49 percent in June, to 6,768, compared with 4,538 in June 2005. The median sales price was up 3 percent, to $470,000; each of the previous five years had seen double-digit increases, going to $455,000 in 2005 from $275,000 in 2000.
 Marc and Pamela Ross of Fair Lawn, N.J., looked at 25 houses in New Jersey last year, but never made an offer because prices were too high, they said. They resumed their house hunt a few weeks ago when they saw prices start to go down. Recently they were looking at a two-story colonial in Englewood that was listed at $424,900. 
 ''You realize now some of these houses now are in our reach,'' Mrs. Ross said, as they toured an open house in Englewood one recent Sunday.
 ''We're liking the prices better, a lot better than before,'' Mr. Ross said.

 ASKING PRICE: (ORIGINAL PRICE): $569,000 ($629,000)
TAXES: $8,511
ON THE MARKET SINCE: May 1
LISTING AGENT: Renee LePore, Beryl Z. Realty, New Rochelle
BACKGROUND: At the height of the market three years ago, this house would have probably sold quickly at the original asking price, Ms. LePore said. ''But now there are just too many houses on the market,'' she said, adding that last year there would have been about five houses up for sale in this neighborhood at any given time, but today there are about 20.

WHERE: 42 Longview Road, PORT WASHINGTON, N.Y.
DESCRIPTION: 4 bedroom colonial with 2.5 baths on 0.21 acre
ASKING PRICE: $949,000 ($1.149 million)
TAXES: $14,587
ON THE MARKET SINCE: June 5
LISTING AGENT: Loretta DiBenedetto and Donna Quinn, Century 21 Laffey Associates, Port Washington
BACKGROUND: The house was first listed with another broker last fall with an initial asking price of $1.349 million, according to Kathy Christie, branch manager of Century 21 Laffey Associates. The price has been reduced five times, most recently on July 21. ''When you list too high, your house is going to sit,'' Ms. Christie said. ''As the market progressed, the reductions did not come fast enough. Now it's the perfect price.''

WHERE: 64 Gregory Avenue, WEST ORANGE, N.J.
DESCRIPTION: 6 bedroom colonial with 3 full and 2 half baths on 0.96 acre
ASKING PRICE: $699,000 ($825,000)
TAXES: $14,295
ON THE MARKET SINCE: April 1
LISTING AGENT: Gloria Falzer, Re/Max Village Square, Upper Montclair, N.J.
BACKGROUND: Billed as a fixer-upper, the house dates from 1920 and has an in-law suite. The kitchen and one of the bathrooms are original to the house, while one bathroom has been fully remodeled and another only partly redone. ''This house definitely needs some work,'' said Ms. Falzer. ''And people this year seem just generally to be more cautious about the money they want to spend and maybe also about the prospect of making renovations.''

WHERE: 44 Newtown Turnpike, WESTPORT, Conn.
DESCRIPTION: 4 bedroom contemporary ranch with 3.5 baths and a pool on 1.1 acres
ASKING PRICE: $1.28 million ($1.39 million)
TAXES: $9,246
ON THE MARKET SINCE: April 12
LISTING AGENT: Elpida Aravidis, Realty Quest, Darien, Conn.
BACKGROUND: The house sold for $1.125 million in its first week on the market 18 months ago. ''The Westport market has been flooded with homes,'' Ms. Aravidis said. ''Eighteen months ago, you had to grab something fast. Now, you can take your time. It's a buyer's market. They don't have to rush.''

(pg. 8)

Chart ''More to Choose From'' lists inventory of houses on the market as of June 30, 2006, compared with a year earlier. (Sources by Country Living Associates; The Otteau Report;
 Multiple Listing Service of Long Island; Westchester County Board of Realtors; Multiple Listing Services of Darien, Greenwich and New Canaan.)(pg. 8)

GRAPHIC: Photos: NO BUYERS YET -- Above, Frank and Lynn Balducci, with their daughter, Emily, held seven open houses and still haven't sold their colonial in Bethpage, N.Y. Right, the house they are buying is on a canal in Massapequa. (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
HOMES IN SIGHT -- Top, Jeffrey Boris, in his new home in Ridgefield, Conn., sold his previous home in five days after his real estate agent persuaded him to put it on the market for a lower price. Above, Jack Roditi of Weichert Realtors showing Pamela and Marc Ross a house in Englewood, N.J. The couple looked at houses in New Jersey last year, but said they stopped because prices were too high. They recently resumed their house hunt. (Photo by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)
(Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)
(Photo by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart: ''The Houses Sit, The Owners Wait''A sampling of houses around the metropolitan region that have been on the market for at least 60 days.WHERE: 46 Albert Place, NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y.DESCRIPTION: 3 bedroom colonial with 1 full and 2 half baths on 0.1 acre

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); STATISTICS (63%); CITIES (63%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Housing

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%)

PERSON: Vivian S Toy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



96 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER: AIRLINE SEAT SELECTION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Window or Aisle? How to Increase Your Odds 

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS. 
E-mail: higgins@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DAVID BARLOW, a senior executive for a relocation company in San Ramon, Calif., and a Southwest frequent flier, covets a particular window seat, 20A, four rows up from the rear of the airline's 737 aircraft and will do just about anything -- including paying any passenger who nabs it before him -- to sit in it. (The clinching price usually ranges from $10 to $20.) The seat, he said, is precisely in the spot where the plane's fuselage bows out and therefore offers passengers who sit there slightly more width and additional shoulder room. 
 ''Some people think I'm totally crazy, but when you're in the air like I am, virtually all the time, every inch counts,'' Mr. Barlow said. (Southwest says the first and last three rows of each aircraft are indeed slightly narrower, but that Mr. Barlow's seat isn't particularly wider than any others.) 
It's getting harder to score a good seat in the air. In June, Northwest filled 89.7 percent of its seats, its highest load factor for that month. And June 30 was Delta's most crowded single day ever, with planes 94.4 percent full. With planes so packed, competition for aisles, the bulkhead row and exit rows is intense. Fliers are increasingly selecting seats as soon as they book their flight. Priceline.com, which added a seat selection feature in April for its listed-price tickets, says 65 percent of its travelers are either picking seats or specifying that they want an aisle or window.
 Some airlines have changed the rules of the game since last summer by adding new seat selection options. In March, Northwest began letting passengers pay $15 to reserve some of the better coach-class seats on domestic flights. Southwest Airlines changed its system last September to allow passengers to check in online 24 hours before departure. Roughly the first 45 to log in can be in the first group to board -- a significant advantage, as the airline has no assigned seats. Some Southwest customers are even paying a new company called BoardFirst.com $5 to check in for them to ensure a better chance at being among the first to board.
 In general, there are no hard and fast rules for scoring a good seat. Because each airline has its own seating configurations and policies, a strategy that may work on one airline may not make a difference on another. Last year, for example, JetBlue began making most exit-row seats on its A320 aircraft available to passengers just after purchase. Other airlines tend to hold onto those seats for their top-tier frequent fliers or release them just before boarding. That said, there are a few basic guidelines that travelers should consider when trying to get the seat of their choice. 

DO YOUR RESEARCH -- Most major airlines let passengers select seats when booking. Look at diagrams on the airline's homepage to see which spots are open. Then cross-reference your findings with Web sites like SeatGuru.com or SeatExpert.com, which rank seat quality and offer insider information like which exit-row seats won't recline. SeatGuru.com recommends seats 14A and 14F on Continental's 737-300, for instance, because they have no seat in front of them and offer extra legroom. But the site also points out that the tray table is in the armrest and that it ''can get very cold by the exits during flight.''
 Orbitz, Travelocity and Expedia also let passengers view seating maps early in the booking process. The earlier you do choose your seat, online or through an agent, the better. When a flight is nearly full, airlines sometimes deny advanced seat selections, forcing latecomers to get their assignment at the airport. That's because airlines hold back some spots for flexibility in seating families or passengers with disabilities and only release those seats at the gate.

CHECK BACK OFTEN -- Selecting your seat doesn't mean you'll actually get it. Planes are sometimes switched because of maintenance or schedule changes. With passengers able to change spots online, seats are often in flux until the aircraft doors are shut, so it can pay to check back to see if any better seats have opened up.
 Another reason to keep checking: some airlines allow elite frequent fliers or full-fare coach passengers to upgrade to first or business class starting five days before departure, depending on status. When they do, they often leave behind prize coach seats that you might nab. Knowing when those upgrades take place can be a key advantage in scoring a good spot. Northwest, for example, confirms platinum elite member upgrades five days before departure; gold elite, three days before departure; and silver, 24 hours before the flight. 

BECOME AN ELITE FLIER -- Airlines save their best seats for their best customers. United, for example, lets elite frequent fliers sit in the economy plus section of the aircraft or the front part of coach, which has up to five more inches of legroom than standard economy. Nonelite customers must pay extra for such seats.
 ''My only real hope of getting a good seat on Northwest is being an elite flier,'' said Eva M. Lang, a financial consultant from Germantown, Tenn., who typically ends up on Northwest regional jets out of Memphis. To qualify for elite status, Ms. Lang monitors her mileage, and if running low, adds a stopover to get more miles or performs a mileage run -- taking a flight on a cheap ticket just to bank more miles. 
 Northwest and Continental save the first few rows in coach for elite members. US Airways lets elite fliers secure seats in exit rows through Web check-in 24 hours before departure. Nonelite fliers must wait until they get to the airport to select those seats.
 Another tip: Airlines sometimes rotate jumbo jets used on long-haul flights through their domestic routes. When this happens, business class seats are classified as part of the coach cabin and high-ranking frequent fliers can nab one by selecting a seat in the first few rows of coach. Tom Parsons, chief executive of Bestfares.com and an elite flier on American scored a business class seat on an American 777 from Dallas to Miami this way last month. ''The bigger the plane, the happier I am,'' said Mr. Parsons, who paid just $278 round trip for the flight.

KNOW WHEN TO ASK FOR AN UPGRADE -- You can still ask for a new seat just before boarding. That's when airlines tend to release empty seats, often those toward the front of the plane, that they had been holding for families or disabled passengers. American and JetBlue release those seats up to four hours before boarding. At least one airline, Northwest, releases exit-row seats 24 hours before departure, precisely when Web check-in is available to customers. Travelers can sign up at nwa.com to receive an e-mail reminder to check in 24 hours before their flight.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Robbi Behr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (77%); RELOCATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%) Airlines and Airplanes; Reservations (Airlines, Hotels, Etc)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); PRICELINE.COM INC (54%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); PCLN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (54%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%)

PERSON: Michelle Higgins

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



97 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1986 words

HEADLINE: My Other Vehicle Is a Gulfstream

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

DATELINE: Aspen, Colo. 

 BODY:
WHETHER the joys of summer are riper for plutocrats than for the rest of us is always open to question. Would watermelon taste sweeter if you had a billion in the bank? Let me spit out this seed, check my bank balance and get back to you. As vacation season reaches its peak this month and millions of Americans jam the highways and skies seeking a precious portion of leisure, there is at least one way in which it becomes clear that the very rich are indeed very different from the rest of us. 
 That difference can be described in two simple words, almost magical to those who partake: flying private.
Just two decades ago, private aviation was exclusively the province of a global super- elite. That was before airline deregulation and 9/11 turned commercial air travel into the noisy, cramped, humiliating nightmare it is today. It was before the tech boom and hedge funds threw off bumper crops of multimillionaires. It was before innovations in the private aviation industry made it possible, first, for the ultrawealthy to use the time-share model known as fractional share ownership to enter the big leagues of private jet travel and, more recently, for the merely rich to buy into jet-sharing plans that are the deep-pocketed equivalents of a MetroCard. 
 ''When I was young it was quite rare,'' said a society decorator in his early 50's. ''Maybe you knew one older gentleman with a great deal of money who had his own jet.'' 
 Nowadays, private air travel has become so mainstream, relatively, that among the decorator's numerous young and well-heeled clients is a couple in their 30's whose Cessna Citation X encountered instrument problems in this mountain resort town not long ago, forcing the couple and their sons to board an airborne cattle-car to Denver. There, the clients' children, 4 and 6 -- never having experienced a commercial airport -- sat on the floor of the vast and bewildering concourse and wailed. And who among us, truly, has not at some point experienced a similar urge?
 ''Seven years ago, I was traveling a lot and I just got sick of the hassles,'' said Gavin Polone, a former Hollywood agent and now a producer whose credits include the cable television show ''Curb Your Enthusiasm'' and ''My Super Ex-Girlfriend.'' 
 For Mr. Polone, the moment marking his decision to defect from the ranks of airborne hoi polloi was a trip he took from New York to Los Angeles. ''I was in first class and there was a woman in business with a baby that screamed for five hours,'' he said. ''And that did it.'' 
 Trans-Atlantic flights are now the only occasions on which Mr. Polone submits to commercial air travel's many indignities. ''In North America, I only fly privately,'' he explained. ''For me what's important is excluding myself from people who might bum me out.'' 
 Even at an elevation of 8,000 feet, in the bright light and thin air of a resort where A-frame fixer-uppers change hands for seven figures, avoiding bummer people and situations takes work. Thus Aspen has become one of the places most often cited -- Nantucket, Mass.; Sea Island, Ga.; Sun Valley, Idaho; and Jackson, Wyo., are several others -- on lists of the top American destinations for people who long ago left behind the sad pretzel mix and microwave cookies of in-flight snack service, and the weary attentions of airline employees who so often wear the expression of doomed souls working off a karmic debt. 
 ''We're always operating at the edge of full capacity,'' said Chad Farischon, the general manager of Trajen FBO Network, which operates the private jetport a short drive from the modest commercial airport at Aspen.
 During peak times like winter break and again in August -- a period when billionaires and Nobel laureates, destined for either the rigorous hiking trails of Maroon Bells or the equally strenuous Aspen Institute cocktail party circuit, descend in droves on the onetime mining town -- so many aircraft vie for parking spots at Aspen airport that the overrun has to be shunted to nearby Rifle or Vail. ''Jan. 2 this year, we had 150 aircraft that didn't get in,'' Mr. Farischon said.
 By aircraft Mr. Farischon is referring not to self-piloted two-seaters but to multimillion-dollar machines like an Embraer Lineage 1000, a Citation X, or a Gulfstream IV or Gulfstream V, respectively the aeronautic versions of a Lexus or Mercedes-Benz. At least one of each was parked, chevron-fashion, on the tarmac one quiet recent Monday, as was a Boeing 727 retrofitted for private use.
 As much as 80 percent of private air travel is now undertaken for leisure rather than business, say some in the industry. While private aircraft sales have risen lately, according to Dan Hubbard, the spokesman for the National Business Aviation Association, those increases must be measured against a years-long slump. ''It's not that there are so many more planes being sold,'' Mr. Hubbard said. ''It's that there are more options'' for private flying to suit evolving consumer demand. 
 From the number of tan, fit people ambling through the clublike lounge at Aspen's private airport -- wearing Chanel jeans and Franck Muller watches and accompanied by their dogs and children -- the assertion is easy to credit. In contrast to the harried atmosphere of a commercial airport, here all is calm and clubby. Even the dreaded check-in procedure amounts to little more than identifying one's pilot from among the various uniformed personnel slouched in overstuffed chairs.
 ''No one checks anything,'' remarked Richard Edwards, an art dealer whose Baldwin Gallery in downtown Aspen and members-only Caribou Club are fixed points on a circuit of the celebrated and monied. Despite his ready access to friends' jets, Mr. Edwards tends to prefer commercial; he likes the anonymity. 
 Still, he has enough experience of private air travel to know that, among a certain segment of locals, the sense of entitlement to private air travel includes an expectation that interiors will be appointed with burled walnut fittings and seats of calf leather; that the in-flight entertainment will consist of a recent movie shown on a flat-screen TV, and not a seat-back viewing of ''Scooby-Doo,'' and that the usual eternities spent in limbo on the tarmac will shrink to a 10-minute interval between buckling one's seat belt and reaching 34,000 feet.
 ''The Aspen resident is a very discerning client,'' said Ricky Sitomer, the chief executive of Blue Star Jets, which sells access to a private fleet. To get an idea of exactly how discerning, Mr. Sitomer produced a note from the butler of one Blue Star client, whose on-board meal requirements were detailed to an extent (Grey Goose vodka frozen two hours before flight; ice cubes made with Fiji water; filet mignon of precise cut and dimension; and Froot Loops, Lucky Charms and Cinnamon Toast Crunch for the kids) that would make the most demanding rock-star diva blanch. 
 The rise of private aviation is generally thought to have begun with the purchase by Warren E. Buffett, the Omaha investor, of NetJets in 1998. Under the NetJets scheme of fractional-share ownership, buyers purchase, say, a 16th of a Hawker 400XP for about $400,000, or the same fraction of a Gulfstream 550 for roughly five times that amount, and then negotiate, much as time-share holders in a condominium might, for use of the plane. Then as now, fractional-share owners tended to be either large corporations or the ultrarich. 
 But as a certain group of Americans became richer and air travel became generally unpleasant, an appetite also developed for the fine perks of private air travel among what in the industry are termed ''high net worth individuals,'' people who are merely, rather than obscenely, rich. 
 To accommodate this new market, a passel of companies were formed like Bombardier Skyjet, CitationShares, Sentient Jet, Le Bas International and Marquis Jet, an affiliate of NetJets, each pitching its own version of a surprisingly simple concept: sell access to a private jet without the necessity of buying one. The companies sell ''jet cards,'' not much different from buying a Starbucks card. 
 ''You call up and say you want to fly from X place to X place,'' explained Mr. Hubbard of the National Business Aviation Association. ''They provide the equipment, swipe your card,'' and the hours disappear until one fills the card up again. For $299,000. That is the cost of a representative 25-hour Marquis Jet card with ready access to a Gulfstream IV-SP, a jet that seats 13 and has a 4,600-mile flight range. That is enough for a trans-Atlantic flight, although a great many consumers use their hours to reach the dinky airports that are convenient to nothing except, as it happens, the finest golf course in the country. 
 ''The sweet spot in private air travel is the entrepreneur,'' said Ken Austin, the Marquis Jet senior vice president for marketing. ''There is a generation of younger people in their 30's and 40's who have a high disposable income, and they use it.'' Mr. Austin refers to these people as ''the disposers.'' 
 For disposers who used Marquis cards to fly to Nantucket one recent Friday, the sticker shock of a $9,000 round-trip price tag was apparently offset by the startlingly short time between wheels-up and the glorious moment when the jet hatch door opened to admit a salt-scented maritime breeze. ''If you ever tried getting to Nantucket flying commercial, you know the stress alone could take years off your life,'' Mr. Austin said.
 When David Brodie, the owner of an audiovisual production company, and his wife recently decided to celebrate their wedding anniversary in Nantucket, he used his Marquis Jet card to book a flight. ''We were on the plane at 12,'' said Mr. Brodie, who lives in Fort Lauderdale. ''And we were in our hotel in Nantucket at a quarter to three.'' 
 Whereas the wealthy of an earlier era may have preferred fiscal conservatism when it came to air travel -- flying economy class as Mr. Buffett purportedly did for years -- disposers apparently have as few qualms about circulating wealth as they do about the more disquieting aspects of private jet travel, grotesque fuel consumption being one. 
 ''You don't have to be as rich as you and I once thought'' to become a private aviation flier, said Alan Antokal, a seasoned jet card user. Mr. Antokal, a New England entrepreneur, manages his aviation cards as cautiously as he did the millwork and pottery businesses he sold for millions in 1998. ''If today I'm going to go down to Florida, I can get on JetBlue for a hundred bucks,'' he said. ''That's not necessarily what one does with 25 hours'' of private-jet access. 
 ''You do things that are lifestyle,'' explained Mr. Antokal, a passionate Boston Red Sox fan who flew to New York from Boston for a playoff game two years ago on a last-minute whim. ''I went online and found tickets for me and my wife,'' he said. ''I called Marquis and said, I want a plane for 3 o'clock and a plane to take me home.'' It was a thrilling ballgame for Mr. Antokal, and an expensive one. For seven hours in New York, he spent close to $40,000. ''Like the MasterCard commercial says, it's priceless,'' he said. 
 For Bob Beson, a Michigan entrepreneur who sold his call center business for $80 million in 1999, the habit of flying private is variously practical, addictive and ''spoiling to the highest degree.'' When Mr. Beson's son turned 21 last year, he used a jet card to book a birthday flight to Las Vegas to celebrate. Mr. Beson, the product of what he called a lower-middle-income background in a Midwestern farming town, occasionally wonders, he conceded, whether he has succumbed to the ''lifestyle of the rich and famous.'' 
 ''Sometimes when I'm writing the check'' to Marquis for $250,000, he explained, ''I question myself.'' But then he drives his car to the tarmac, boards the plane and ''I don't think about it anymore.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: STACKED UP -- Private planes parked on a taxiway at Teterboro Airport in New Jersey before a summer weekend. (Photo by Vincent Laforet)(pg. 1)
READY FOR TAKEOFF -- Connie McNab, center, of San Antonio, along with her dogs and her son, Easton, left, prepared to board a private jet Tuesday at the Aspen airport.
 UPGRADE -- Michael and Debbie Feiner, on a Flight Options plane, ready to leave the Aspen airport for Denver. (Photographs by Michael Brands for The New York Times)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); RESORTS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (75%); AIRPORTS (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); MOUNTAINS (72%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (71%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



98 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; HOME WORK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Moving In, and Making a House Her Canvas

BYLINE: By PERDITA BUCHAN

 BODY:
WHEN I was about 14, my best friend came from one of those old families that had drifted down the economic stream, ending up in half of a stone double house, its shabbiness accentuated by paintings and bronzes and other remnants of past grandeur. Jane lived in a big room on the third floor, and that summer we decided to paint it. We chose a soft yellow, working away with the energy of youth as Johnny Mathis crooned on the radio. When we had finished, it was beautiful -- so beautiful, in fact, that her parents went straight to the paint store and the four of us painted the whole house. I was stunned by the difference. Outside, it was still half a gray stone house near the railroad tracks, but inside it was a palace. 
 I had learned the power of paint to transform. It was a lesson I never forgot. I have painted rooms almost everywhere I've lived; if I couldn't paint the room, I painted the furniture. 
When I bought my 100-year-old cottage on the Jersey Shore eight years ago, it was a classic example of what home inspectors call ''deferred maintenance.'' That summer, I moved in with the cat to make my way through a list of the most immediately necessary repairs. Given the asbestos in the crawl space and the defunct water heater, interior painting perhaps should have been low on the list. However, after a couple of weeks of living with the flesh pink of the front room and the dull beige of the room above, with a half bath the color of Pepto-Bismol, I couldn't stand it anymore. Those were the only rooms I could paint, since the back of the house had to be rebuilt. 
 At the paint store, I scooped up samples of whites: ''linen white,'' ''dove white'' and exotics like ''snow leopard'' and ''angel's gaze.'' I finally went with ''atrium white'' -- a bad name (evoking skylights and ficus plants), but a good color. 
 I gathered my materials: drop cloths, painter's tape, paint trays, rollers, brushes, rags and a roll of paper towels for spills. I planned to start upstairs and work down. It didn't seem too daunting. The upstairs room was small, about 15 by 17 feet. Its steep eaves I could reach with a small ladder. The half bath presented some problems since it had an odd stucco finish, but at the paint store I got the right kind of roller with a long nap. I plugged in the radio -- NPR now, not Johnny Mathis.
 I began upstairs by painting around the windows -- not so easy in the bathroom, as the window was floor level. I had to get down on my hands and knees. In fact, I found myself down on my knees for much of the painting of the walls beneath the eaves. It was with relief that I stretched my cramped legs, ate a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, and began on the eaves themselves with the roller.
 Switching from brush to roller was exhilarating. I poured the paint into the tray -- smooth, almost edibly creamy. The new roller slurped it up; the first strokes glided easily, and the old disappeared beneath the new. But rolling paint requires steady pressure, and after a while, my arm got sore. I had to tilt my head back at an unnatural angle to see what I was doing; my neck and shoulders ached. 
 As I reached the apex of the ceiling, paint started splattering in my eyes. In desperation, I put on my glasses, which didn't help much. The ceiling sloped steeply over the stairs. I screwed the roller into the extension handle and leaned out over the void, my free hand on the railing. I was very aware of being alone. If I fell, no one would know it for days, and the cat, who was watching from the bottom step, would starve. 
 By about 5 p.m., the first coat was done. Splotched with paint, I pulled on my bathing suit and went down to the beach for a swim. Passing the hardware store, I bought a pair of goggles. For the next week I painted, getting up each morning, stiff and sore but determined.
 I returned to my teaching job in another state for the winter while work continued on the house. I left shingling the roof and taping the wallboard to my contractor, and planned to do the rest of the interior painting myself. I collected color strips. Would I choose ''summer butterfly,'' ''inspiration point'' or ''polar ice''? I lingered over ''rosette,'' an edge-of-dawn pink I had used before that made everyone look good, especially at dinner parties. I had gotten it from a postcard of my favorite Vuillard painting, of people in a garden, which I keep stuck on my mirror. I took the postcard and studied it.
 A can not of rosette but of apricot paint, chosen to match the pathway in the painting, was in the trunk of the car when I drove down to New Jersey on spring vacation. The house was finished. I gazed at the blank canvas of drywall. Without any prep beyond putting down a sheet of that day's newspaper, I gave the can of paint a shake, rustled up one of the previous summer's brushes and painted a square on the downstairs bathroom wall. It was the color of a Creamsicle. Let it dry, I told myself, colors change when they dry. It didn't. Wait till next morning, I thought, the light will be better. The light was; the color wasn't. The can of paint went out to the shelf in the garage.
 Worse, in the chaos of packing, I had lost my precious postcard. I was on my own. I started with the bedroom, trying to find a green that would echo the garden outside my window. I bought and tried three different quarts of green before I found it, a leafy, silvery color. Sadly, it had a number, not a name, so I called it ''garden afternoon.''
 Back in the bathroom, I ended up moving away from the apricot to something closer to Cotswold stone, although the color went by the misleading name of ''gerbera daisy.'' In all, besides the walls of five rooms, I primed and painted 5 doors and 17 windows. I was nearing the end when I found the postcard of the Vuillard painting stuck in my copy of ''Remodeling for Dummies.'' The colors I had chosen were there; I guess over the years I had internalized them.
 A few months ago, I could afford to have my kitchen redone, including the painting. It's a good job, but somehow a little disappointing. When you paint a room yourself and get up the next day to look at it, you have a kind of Christmas-morning feeling. To get that again, I'm going to have to paint the steps of the staircase. I've picked the color, one shade darker than the blue of the kitchen. It's called ''windmill wings.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Yvetta Fedorova)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); PAINTING (90%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (72%); WILD CATS (65%) Paints and Painting

PERSON: Perdita Buchan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



99 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Simply Amazing! (The Promises, Not the Gas Savings)

BYLINE: By TIM MORAN

 BODY:
THE federal Environmental Protection Agency maintains a full laboratory where it will gladly test a miraculous fuel-saving device for $30,000. But so far, the biggest customer of the lab has been the Federal Trade Commission, which uses it to debunk false advertising claims.
 Such claims of astounding mileage gains have increased as gizmos promising gas savings -- some newly hatched and others a fresh twist on old themes -- have proliferated, draining the pockets of gullible drivers seeking relief from high gasoline prices. From clamp-on magnets to water sprays, from air spinners and vaporizers to fuel vibrators and gas tank pills, gadgets promising higher mileage are not new.
For at least a century, tinkerers have tried everything from exhaust cutouts that bypassed the muffler to ''cow magnets'' (normally used to extract bits of metal from the digestive systems of ruminants) clamped to gasoline lines to mysteriously align the molecules in fuel.
 The latest products have received a lift from the Internet and television infomercials. But while the inventiveness of the marketing has improved, the success of the devices has not. 
 ''We tested about 100 products, a little more than a hundred, and we can boil them down to saying that they don't work,'' John Millett, an E.P.A. spokesman, said. 
 The F.T.C. lists the results of its tests at the E.P.A. lab on its consumer protection Web site, www.ftc.gov/bcp/conline/pubs/autos/gasave.pdf. If the F.T.C. decides a product is falsely advertised it can take action against the company selling it.
 The E.P.A. reviews the chemicals used in gasoline additives, to ensure that what comes out of the tailpipe is no more harmful than emissions from regular fuel. It then issues a registration letter.
 This letter does not constitute approval or endorsement, but marketers often use it to claim E.P.A. ''certification.''
 Some fuel or oil additives can be a problem for engines and fuel systems. Additives displace protective chemicals in gasoline and engine oil; some may corrode fuel pumps or gas tanks, or make flexible fuel hoses and fittings brittle. Instead of enhancing engine life and economy, users might shorten their car's life.
 A senior editor at Popular Mechanics magazine, Mike Allen, found results similar to those obtained by the E.P.A. when he took a crateful of fuel-saving contraptions to a Texas testing lab to check their effectiveness. ''None of them improved fuel economy, several of them increased fuel consumption and most of them cost horsepower,'' Mr. Allen said in a recent interview.
 To test the gizmos, Mr. Allen used a pair of chassis dynamometers made available by the Universal Technical Institute, a Houston vocational school. A dynamometer is a machine that measures the power output of a running vehicle on rollers to allow its wheels to spin as though they were rolling along pavement.
 When fuel consumption was carefully measured, first without and then with the so-called ''enhancers'' -- everything from the Fuel Atomizer 2000, a gadget that took fuel through a big loop of copper tubing to vaporize it and pump it back into the engine, to the Electronic Engine Ionizer, a device that is supposed to feed energy back and forth to one cylinder or another through clip-on wires. 
 Some gadgets were hard to install; others were hazardous. ''This device had something they called 'capacitor blocks,' '' Mr. Allen said of the Electronic Engine Ionizer. ''They melted and dripped onto the adjustment bolt and caught fire.'' 
 Another device, the AquaTune, cost $399 and resulted in 20 less horsepower and a 20 percent decrease in fuel economy.
 Mr. Allen reported on his findings in the magazine's September 2005 issue. He recalled recently that after a week of testing the devices, he had gained respect not for the technology involved, but for the persuasive skills of promoters. 
 He pointed out that any carmaker that could honestly promise fuel economy gains of 300 percent, 30 percent or even 3 percent would be doing that rather than offering cash incentives to sell vehicles in a brutally competitive global market.
 Auto companies employ some of the world's top engineers, and they are desperate for an edge in the economy sweepstakes. ''The possibility that some guy who's tinkering in his back yard is going to come up with it is really remote,'' Mr. Allen said.
 Why do people who have spent tens of thousands of dollars on a well-engineered car believe that the $100 Fuel Genie, the $198 Platinum Gas Saver or the $70 TornadoFuelSaver might reap huge benefits? 
 The Genie claims nonspecific gains in mileage, horsepower and emissions, while the platinum system boasts of 22 percent savings and its Web site cites ''government-confirmed gas saving'' studies from ''Federal Consumer Protection.'' 
 In an interview on ABC News's ''20/20,'' the inventor of the Platinum Gas Saver asserted that skepticism over his product was partly because of a smear campaign by the tobacco industry -- and he then posted on his Web site a brash ''as seen on'' reference to the newsmagazine.
 Dr. Carl Haugtvedt, a social psychologist who is an associate professor of marketing logistics at Ohio State University, said that the kind of faith that draws consumers to gadgets like these was actually important to human mental health. Part of the attraction stems from hopefulness and a willingness to trust that something can improve a painful situation. Another factor is self-delusion, which protects the ego by letting a person overlook bad decisions.
 ''You could admit to yourself that you were wrong, you wasted this money, you burned this money, say 'I'm an idiot,' '' Dr. Haugtvedt said. ''That's very tough on the self and the self-esteem.'' 
 People who are hopeful enough to buy and try out a fuel-economy enhancer will look for any positive sign they can find to convince themselves that they made a good decision. They may put the device in their car and, at the same time, get a tune-up -- something suggested in the installation instructions with many of the devices. Or, because the owners are paying more attention to their cars, they may realize that their tires are underinflated and add some air. Then, each time they add fuel at the gas pump, they attribute any mileage gain to the new device.
 Consumer Reports' experts are accustomed to such consumer behavior. David Champion, director of automobile testing, urges people to be aware of how cars work so they can be wiser buyers. When the magazine recently tested the Fuel Genie, the TornadoFuelSaver and the Platinum Gas Saver, it found they had no effect.
 ''We read the instructions extremely well, followed them to the absolute letter, and did a fuel-economy run,'' Mr. Champion said. The drives were done using fuel meters spliced into the gasoline lines to measure the volume of fuel consumed, and the same test runs used to evaluate new cars were performed. ''They didn't make any difference at all,'' he said.
 Mr. Champion, whose background includes engineering work for fuel-injection companies, said he could understand the appeal of something like the TornadoFuelSaver, which is meant to impart a swirling motion to air being sucked into the engine. But what most consumers don't know, he said, is that a big air cavity, the plenum, is built into air intake systems. Its job is to make the intake air still.
 Mr. Champion said drivers should look beyond the powerful advertising behind the devices and, instead, modify their driving.
 ''Drive as if you've got a cup of coffee on your dashboard and you don't want to spill it,'' he said. ''No heavy acceleration, no heavy braking.''
 Mr. Allen, at Popular Mechanics, has an alternate solution. ''If you want to save gas,'' he said, ''stay home.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Allen of Popular Mechanics with six of the devices that failed to improve mileage in his tests. In front, from left: TornadoFuelSaver, Vortex Valve, Fuel Boss and Super Gas Saver. In rear, AquaTune and Vapor Injector 2000. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
(Photo by Popular Mechanics)
David Champion, auto testing director of Consumer Reports, with TornadoFuelSaver and, at right, the Fuel Genie and Platinum Gas Saver. (Photo by Steven Lee Miller for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Popular Mechanics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); MAMMALS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); FUEL ADDITIVES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); INFOMERCIALS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (64%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (57%) 

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL TECHNICAL INSTITUTE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%) Popular Mechanics (Magazine); Consumer Reports (Magazine); Environmental Protection Agency; Federal Trade Commission

TICKER: UTI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611519 OTHER TECHNICAL & TRADE SCHOOLS (50%); SIC8249 VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: Tim Moran; Mike (Popular Mechanics) Allen; David Champion

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



100 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BENSONHURST; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: The Ghost Ships of Coney Island Creek

BYLINE: By JONAH OWEN LAMB

 BODY:
BEHIND the tall grass and trees of Calvert Vaux Park in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, hidden from the soccer players on Sundays, is a nautical graveyard. Burned and rotting hulks of abandoned vessels jut from the dirty beach into the silted, sluggish water of Coney Island Creek. The ribs of other ships emerge from the shallows like bones.
 No one is sure when the two dozen wrecks arrived at this little waterway at Bensonhurst's southern tip. No one even knows their names. 
The Army Corps of Engineers recently completed an extensive study of the wrecks strewn about New York's harbor. But the agency investigated only economically viable waterways, and Coney Island Creek -- once crowded with commercial shipping and still officially a federal waterway -- received no such scrutiny. 
 ''If no one is interested, they are going to deteriorate and we won't know what was there,'' Lynn Rakos, an archaeologist for the Corps of Engineers, said of the ghostly flotilla.
 Residents can recall fishing and swimming off boats beached in the stream as far back as the 1950's. ''I remember when they were all floating,'' said Charles Denson, 52, the author of ''Coney Island Lost and Found,'' who was born and raised in the area. ''We used to play on them.''
 John Andresen, a longtime member of the Excelsior Yacht Club, which is just north of the creek, also grew up in the neighborhood and spent much of his life along the waterfront. As a child, he swam off the barges that were tied to piers.
 Back then, pretty much everything the neighborhood lost or tossed away ended up in the creek. Children even used to fish out unopened packages of C rations, from World War II, which Mr. Andresen said probably washed up from Navy vessels that sank off the coast. ''Cookies, cigarettes and crackers,'' he said. ''And they were still good.'' 
 Inside the Excelsior clubhouse, Mr. Andresen pulled out an aerial photo of the yacht club from the 1930's. The black-and-white image showed a string of shipyards with barges and tankers tied up to their piers.
 Before roads and subway lines were built across the creek, it was connected to Sheepshead Bay by a meandering marshland and shallow streams, making Coney Island truly an island. Back then the creek was actually an unnavigable strait that connected Gravesend Bay and Sheepshead Bay, which both fed into the Atlantic. It was that little ribbon of water that made Coney Island an island rather than the peninsula it is today. But by 1929, according to Mr. Denson, that connection was broken as the streams and marshes were filled in and the Sheepshead Bay end was closed. 
 As for the wrecks in the creek, Mr. Andresen, 56, recalls older people in the area telling him that some of them were whaling ships.
 One of the yacht club's veteran members, Armando Gargiulo, 87, said he remembered when the creek was a wild place, a rumrunner's haven and a dumping ground for everything from bodies to old cars. Even then, the water was so polluted that he used to take his boat to the mud flats, where the chemicals in the corrosive sludge there could be used to wash off the bottoms of vessels. 
 Mr. Gargiulo also said there was the time a Chinese junk sailed into the creek. The vessel arrived at high tide, and when the tidal flats emptied, the crew rocked it back and forth to fill its leaky seams with mud. Then it sailed away with the tide.
 Until as recently as the early 1960's, the creek was a busy place. But the advent of containerized shipping, which required large ships and sizable, mechanized ports to handle them, spelled the end of small ports across New York Harbor. In 1962, much of the mouth of Coney Island Creek was filled with dredging spoils from the construction of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, for what would become Calvert Vaux Park.
 It was around that time, according to Mr. Denson and the Corps of Engineers, that many of the wrecks in the creek and New York Harbor started to appear. Old vessels were stripped of hardware and scuttled, a practice that was outlawed in the 1970's.
 ''You just went to a quiet little spot like Arthur Kill and dumped them,'' said Ms. Rakos, the archaeologist. Some were left in shallows to rot; others were burned to their waterlines.
 The state's Department of Environmental Conservation has no plans to remove the wrecks in Coney Island Creek, fearing that to do so might release whatever toxins are buried in the mud around them. 
 So the ship graveyard will most likely abide, an anonymous, mysterious reminder of the city's forgotten harbor life, slowly disappearing from sight and from memory.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SUNKEN SECRET -- In a waterway of mysteries, the biggest are its rotting vessels. (Photographs by William Mebane for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); NAVIES (77%); ARMIES (77%); SHIPBUILDING (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); ATHLETES (73%); SOCCER (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); CHILDREN (70%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (60%) Ships and Shipping 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%)

PERSON: Jonah Owen Lamb

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Coney Island Creek (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



101 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Energy-Guzzling Office Space

BYLINE: By Edward A. Winiarski. 
Edward A. Winiarski is the head of Optimum Applied Systems, a technology firm that develops energy-saving systems.

 BODY:
IMAGINE an S.U.V. parked on the street and left running all night as its driver sleeps soundly in his apartment, undisturbed by how much fuel is burning. Imagine nearly everyone who drives to work and back each day across the metropolitan area doing the same thing. It would be a preposterous waste of money and natural resources, right? The obvious way to conserve fuel and cash would be to turn the car off. 
 What is apparently not so obvious is that the office buildings we drive to and from hum constantly, sucking up energy by allowing lights, air-conditioners, computers and everything with a plug to buzz all night -- and by cooling the air too much all day. Large commercial buildings account for a whopping 65 percent of the total electricity use and 36 percent of total energy use in the United States, according to The Economist magazine. Just look at the empty office towers glowing 24 hours a day across Manhattan's skyline. 
During last week's record-breaking triple-digit temperatures, Mayor Michael Bloomberg was right to declare a heat emergency and call on businesses, residents and city employees to conserve energy to avoid a citywide version of the blackout that crippled parts of Queens last month. But more needs to be done, and not only in times of hot weather. 
 In thousands of offices, right now, workers wear sweaters because it's just too cold. And in winter they peel off the sweaters or even open windows because the indoor air is so warm. Why?
 Many office and apartment buildings are heated and cooled by huge boilers and air-conditioners that pump air into rooms with no control or monitoring of whether the rooms are being used. Essentially, these buildings burn fuel 24 hours a day, without regard for how hot or cold people feel. 
 Several technology companies, including my own, have developed products that monitor where energy is consumed in large buildings, as well as computerized systems capable of turning off the lights and turning down air-conditioning or heat when rooms are not in use. Motion sensors, for example, can be used to shut off the lights and change thermostat settings in an unused conference room or the office of a vacationing employee. Building managers can also monitor and control the energy use in individual rooms by computer, or even long-distance via BlackBerry. 
 In winter, these strategies enable some buildings to limit boiler use to only four to six hours a day, our company has found.
 But investment in this technology has been far too small to keep up with the rising consumption of fuel. For more than 30 years I have worked with scientists and engineers studying how large buildings waste energy and have seen little change in commercial energy use. As their costs have risen with the price of oil, many building owners have simply passed the expense along to tenants in the form of rent increases.
 The Green City Buildings Act passed in New York City last October now requires new commercial buildings to include -- among other energy-saving features -- the technology needed to adjust the use of energy according to need. But old office buildings need to be retrofitted to do the same. 
 Demand for electricity among Con Edison's 3.2 million customers in New York and Westchester County is growing by more than 1.5 percent each year. City officials predict that by 2012, new power plants will be needed to meet the demand for energy consumption. But if all property owners would do their part to avoid wasting energy at ridiculous rates, the need for new plants could be pushed back.
 The price of gasoline has risen so high that many car owners have been moved to go beyond complaining and look for ways to conserve. But drivers are not the only ones who should be paying attention to the cost of oil. Conservation efforts should be the responsibility of those of us who are using the most energy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); WEATHER (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); THERMAL SENSORS (72%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); MOTION DETECTORS (70%); POWER FAILURES (70%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Conservation of Resources; Air Conditioning; Electric Light and Power; Heating

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (51%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (51%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (65%) Edward A Winiarski; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



102 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Mercedes-Benz GL450; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: A Magic Bus Among the Mastodons

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
NOTHING against Mercedes-Benz, but I found myself reluctant to drive the company's big new sport utility vehicle, the GL450. Aside from the environmental bull's-eye on their back, big S.U.V.'s usually reside at the bottom of my personal list of thrill rides, and I'd already spent several weeks waving from a procession of S.U.V. parade floats: the Audi Q7, the Cadillac Escalade and three varieties of Range Rover.
 Ask anyone what the world needs now, and one of the last things you'll hear is ''another hulking luxury S.U.V.'' In January, when the GL appeared on the runway at the Detroit auto show, I gave it my best Anna Wintour eye-roll, dismissing it as if it were a frumpy plus-size frock -- soooo last season. 
But now that I have spent a week in the GL, I have been forced to conclude that rather than being a knockoff, the big thing is actually quite the trendsetter. It should also send car designers at other companies scurrying to their sketchpads: while most big sport-utes break their promise to provide comfortable seating for six or seven adults, the Mercedes delivers with a third-row seat that is more spacious and more easily reached than those in any of its rivals. 
 There is also icing on this genuine three-layer cake: the GL450 is among the quickest, creamiest-driving big trucks I have ever tested. 
 Start with the 4.7-liter V-8. On paper, it is not particularly powerful; its 335 horsepower compares with 400-plus in some competitors. But the engine is loaded with useful technology, from variable valve timing to forged connecting rods. 
 The engine finds a soulmate in Mercedes's seven-speed automatic transmission, with the most cogs currently on the market. Together, this engine and gearbox bring out each other's inherent strengths, spurring the Benz from a stop to 60 m.p.h. in an eye-opening 6.4 seconds.
 The drivetrain partners also tango with seamless precision. On steep climbs and descents in the Hudson Valley, the Benz was always in just-right mode for cruising or passing, never lurching, hesitating or hunting for gears. 
 The stubby electronic gear-change stalk on the steering column is more awkward; if you don't hold the brake firmly when engaging ''drive,'' it stays resolutely in ''park,'' leaving you racing the engine and looking as though you need remedial driver's ed. 
 Built in Alabama alongside its smaller sibling, the M-Class, the 5,500-pound GL certainly won't be confused with a sport sedan. Yet the Mercedes charges effortlessly to 100 m.p.h. and beyond and it feels solid and reassuring at speeds most owners will never attempt. 
 I also managed 15 m.p.g., a bit better than some rivals can attain; the E.P.A. rates the GL450 at 14 in town and 18 on the highway. (A diesel-powered GL, set to arrive in the spring, should deliver closer to 20 m.p.g., though its emissions will keep it off the market in New York, New England and some other states that adhere to California's clean-air rules.)
 Mercedes's ever-improving air suspension provides a smooth carpet and stable handling, with three ride heights and settings: for comfort, normal and sporty driving. Especially in the softest mode, the GL tamed even the ruined cobblestones of my Brooklyn street. On this revealing gantlet the GL absorbed bumps even better -- dare I say it? -- than Mercedes's flagship S-Class sedan. 
 Necessary or not, the GL covers the off-road bases, too, ensuring that the class bullies can't raise any issues about its manliness. The big truck has permanent four-wheel-drive, the height-adjustable suspension and a downhill speed regulator: press a button, and the vehicle will safely walk itself down a steep grade. Add the optional off-road package, and the suspension can pump ground clearance to a Hummeresque 10.9 inches. The GL can also tow a mighty 7,500 pounds.
 One secret to the GL's slick performance is its independent rear suspension, which not only improves its ride and handling but let engineers lower the floor to carve out extra passenger and cargo space in the back. Either portion of the split third-row seat powers itself flat via two sets of buttons, one in the hatch and another inside the second-row doors. That means you can pop the power tailgate and rearrange the seats while your arms are full, a function that came in handy when a friend and I managed to load an antique dresser without having to set it down. 
 Personal comfort in cars is subjective, but as a 6-foot male, I could manage three or four complaint-free hours in the third row. The rearmost seat is also relatively easy to climb into -- and especially out of -- without worrying about tripping and landing face-first on the pavement. The Cadillac Escalade, to name one rival, has a larger exterior but an unpleasantly cramped third row, and less usable cargo space behind that seat.
 Handsome bird's-eye maple trim, leather with neat stitching and a two-tone instrument panel highlight the rich interior. Another strong point: Mercedes offers some of the industry's most comfortable and supportive seats, and the GL's optional multicontour chairs are no exception. The range of lumbar support seems almost limitless.
 As for cons, the front console box is stingy -- too small to hold even the thick owner's manual. The stereo's six-CD changer is out of reach inside the glovebox, and the second-row cup holders are too shallow, a grape-juice spill waiting to happen.
 Mercedes calls its screen-based vehicle control setup the Comand system, and though it has been improved it still resists your efforts to boss it around. The navigation setup remains second-rate, and some operations are a hassle. 
 Often-used functions, including the zoom that focuses in on the map, remain invisible on screen until you press an equally unmarked row of tiny buttons; even if you guess the correct one, it takes a redundant two strokes -- one to call up the function, a second to perform it. 
 The GL is competitively priced at $55,675, though like other luxury carmakers, Mercedes charges extra for the really good stuff. Adding some $13,000 in options brought my GL to $68,075, in line with an Escalade or a Lexus LX 470 but a good $20,000 less than a comparable Range Rover.
 Options on the test truck included 19-inch wheels, a dual-screen entertainment system, a Harman/Kardon audio system, a satellite navigation aid, multicontour seats, three-zone climate control, wood-and-leather steering wheel, a huge panoramic sunroof, power rear quarter windows and more. 
 In this high-wattage class, the GL's subdued styling may be its soft spot. The jutting prow, led by the biggest three-pointed star in memory, does tells you something big is approaching. And the crouched, pavement-sniffing stance offers a clue to the GL's greyhound speed. (Fine, a well-fed greyhound). But the Mercedes gives off a cautious, gated-community vibe, lacking the visual pomp of the Range Rover or the chrome-plated pop of the Escalade. 
 For more conservative buyers, the GL's reserved style may come as a relief. It is certainly preferable to the trend of S.U.V.'s undergoing tummy tucks and liposuction just to stand out from the heavy-metal herd. To name one, the Audi Q7's strained bid for styling originality -- including its sharply sloping roof -- is exactly what compromises its interior utility. 
 As with Mercedes's own R-Class ''sports tourer,'' the Audi ends up being 10 pounds of truck in a 5-pound sack: Huge on the outside, but with practical room for only four adults, or the same number that fit comfortably in a Honda Civic. Trucks like these not only waste space, they sacrifice handling, fuel economy and ease of parking while -- unlike the GL450 -- offering few benefits in return.
 In other words, let's not forget that the big sport utility was always ideally more of a school bus than a sports car. On a class trip in the rich-and-roomy GL, even the grownups will be singing ''Kumbaya.''

INSIDE TRACK: An S.U.V. that's big where it counts.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Materials are plush and seats are cushy, but controls can be irritating. (pg. 4)
 GL's third-row seat is more accommodating than most. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); DRIVER EDUCATION (78%); SEDANS (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (71%) 

ORGANIZATION: Mercedes-Benz

PERSON: Lawrence Ulrich

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



103 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; LITTER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: A Place to Put Trash, and a Message From Our Sponsor

BYLINE: By BILL SLOCUM

DATELINE: NORWALK, Conn. 

 BODY:
ADVERTISING has found its way onto the names of sports stadiums and the roofs of taxis. Now city officials in Norwalk are discussing allowing the placement of ads on new trash bins that would be spread around the city.
 Harold Alvord, Norwalk's director of public works, who is shepherding the idea, said Creative Outdoor Advertising of North Palm Beach, Fla., which had placed similar bins in other cities, was proposing to bring them to Norwalk.
The company would provide the bins, find advertisers, empty the trash and also pay the city $5 to $10 a month for each bin, depending on the amount of advertising they attract. The company said it required a minimum of 50 bins. It would keep the ad revenue, which it estimated at $5,000 to $7,500 a month for 50 bins. 
 Mr. Alvord said he liked the proposal. ''In the past, the city used wire-basket receptacles because they are cheap,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, they disappear very easily, and when full, look like a bucketful of garbage. We have been looking for cost-effective alternatives to get receptacles out there.''
 The trash bins offered by Creative Outdoor Advertising are too big to be easily stolen, and they are not see-through. The stainless steel bins are more than four feet high and six feet wide, with separate slots for recyclable and nonrecyclable trash. On the front of the bin is an area 30 inches high and 5 feet wide for the ads.
 ''Years of experience have taught us where to put and not to put bins,'' Peter Gray, a company manager, said. ''They are not overly cumbersome.''
 The Zoning Committee is scheduled to discuss the idea this Thursday. It has to decide whether to change restrictions on signs in residential neighborhoods so that the bins can be placed at bus shelters and other curb sites that extend into private property, and whether to allow the bins at city parks and beaches.
 Mr. Alvord noted that some critics, including some Zoning Committee members, had said the bins were ugly.
 ''It appears to be win-win for the city, but the issue of aesthetics certainly is there,'' said Robert Keyes, the chairman of the Zoning Commission, who also serves on the commission's Zoning Committee. He said he was concerned about placing ads in city parks.
 Mr. Alvord said there may not be a better solution to the city's litter problem. ''They tell me these units are ugly,'' he said. ''What I say to them is: 'O.K., give me an alternative that isn't ugly.' ''
 If the proposal is denied by the Zoning Committee, the city can still place bins on other city property, for example, along roads and sidewalks. But it will need at least 50 such locations for Creative Outdoor Advertising to participate. ''A certain mass is needed for the economics to make sense,'' Mr. Gray said.
 ''As part of our contractual obligation, we also pick up the area around the bin,'' he said. ''We have to make sure the sponsor's message looks good and is presented in a clean environment.''
 Mr. Gray said no other city or town in the state had expressed interest in the program. He said that his company's bins were being used in North Palm Beach; Little Rock, Ark.; and Toronto.


GRAPHIC: Photo: DUAL USE -- Toronto has trash bins like those proposed for Norwalk, Conn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ZONING (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (79%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Outdoor Advertising; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: Creative Outdoor Advertising (Co)

PERSON: Bill Slocum

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Norwalk (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



104 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: A Watchful Eye, Trained on Workers' Licenses

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS a police officer in Clarkstown, N.Y., in 1998, Michael Garvey responded to an accident in which a plumbing company's van rear-ended a car, injuring the car's occupant. 
 Amid the bent metal and broken laws encountered in that routine assignment -- the van driver's license had been revoked -- lay the seeds of a steadily growing off-duty business.
Michael Garvey, now a sergeant, moonlights -- make that sunlights, since he works the overnight shift with the Clarkstown police -- as the head of a six-person private business that provides employers in New York State whose organizations use cars, vans or trucks with up-to-date information on the license status of employees who drive the vehicles. 
 His five-year-old company, which gives the results to its clients online, also helps employers keep track of employees' compliance with federal and state requirements for commercial drivers, like periodic medical examinations for those who operate large trucks and buses. 
 His company, License Monitor Inc. of Congers, N.Y., uses data from the state's Department of Motor Vehicles that Sergeant Garvey says the company obtains through methods unrelated to his police work. He said the state data was available to all employers with employee-driven motor vehicles and to their representatives, like License Monitor. 
 His nearly 200 clients, employing more than 50,000 drivers, include big-fleet companies like Cablevision, Consolidated Edison and the KeySpan Corporation, and small landscaping and car-towing businesses with a few drivers, said Sergeant Garvey, 38. It also has government clients, including several divisions of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
 When he arrived at the accident scene in Clarkstown, in Rockland County about 25 miles north of New York City, Sergeant Garvey recalled recently, he found that the license of the worker who drove the plumbing company's van had been revoked for two drunken-driving convictions. The van's owner -- whose liability in the ensuing lawsuit was increased because his employee had been driving illegally -- said he had not known about the revocation. The worker had not told him, and the van was too small to fall under regulations requiring the employer to make an annual check of the license record of the workers who drove it, Sergeant Garvey said.
 Even if the owner had checked, he would not have known about the revocation if it had occurred after his latest check. ''I figured there was a need for employers to be constantly kept informed of the status of the licenses of their drivers,'' Sergeant Garvey said.
 Indeed, drivers with revoked or suspended licenses are a serious problem, road safety experts say. They say such drivers are generally more accident-prone. The National Association of Counties says state motor vehicle officials have estimated that as many as 80 percent of drivers whose licenses are revoked or suspended continue to drive.
 After majoring in marketing and the management of information systems in college, Sergeant Garvey spent five years in jobs with software development and telecommunications companies and as a co-founder of a company making telescopic ladders. Fulfilling a childhood dream, he joined the Clarkstown Police Department in 1994.
 Before forming License Monitor, he said, he got the department's approval for the off-duty venture. He obtained help in drawing up a business plan from the state's Small Business Development Center, which is partly financed by the federal Small Business Administration. And he tested the market, he said, calling companies like limousine services and local truckers and asking ''if they'd be interested in a service that informed them whenever their drivers had their licenses suspended or revoked.''
 Brian Bixby, manager of membership sales and services for Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of New York, said that when his group studied License Monitor about 18 months ago, it found no other company in the state providing such ongoing monitoring. Other services, he said, were offering monthly or quarterly monitoring. 
 Sergeant Garvey said that he had raised about $1 million from relatives, friends and other investors to build the business, and that it showed its first profit last year. ''We were investing a lot in the technology,'' he said. Revenue was nearly $500,000 in 2003, the first full year of operation, and has since risen 50 percent to 75 percent annually, he said. ''We're on track to do it again this year.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: THE WATCHER -- Michael Garvey, head of License Monitor Inc. in his office in Congers, N.Y. The company supplies employers with reports on workers' driver's license status. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (89%); DRIVERS LICENSES (89%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); COUNTIES (68%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (67%); LITIGATION (61%) 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (66%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: License Monitor Inc

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (66%); NG (LSE) (66%); ED (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (66%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (66%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Michael (Police Sgt) Garvey; Joseph P Fried

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



105 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2200 words

HEADLINE: The Houses That Wouldn't Move

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY; Nate Schweber contributed reporting in New Jersey for this article.

 BODY:
LYNN AND FRANK BALDUCCI'S house in Bethpage, N.Y., should be a real estate agent's dream: 4br, 2ba, large new EIK, formal LR, family room, new roof and siding, move-in condition.
 The Balduccis put their 1951 colonial on the market in early May. They held seven open houses, drawing 10 or so potential buyers, but they still had not gotten a single offer as of early August -- even after they dropped their asking price to $539,000 from $589,000.
''It's very depressing,'' Ms. Balducci said, adding that at least seven houses in her neighborhood had been on the market for at least as long as theirs. ''It's a little scary for us, too, because we very shortly may be in a position where we have to carry two mortgages.'' 
 The Balduccis, who have a 3 1/2-month-old girl, Emily, are moving to get more space as well as a waterfront location; they have bought a house on a canal off Seaford Creek in Massapequa and are scheduled to close on it in a few weeks. 
 The Balduccis' agent, Peggy Chugkowski, with Prudential Douglas Elliman in Massapequa, tells a story that is becoming increasingly familiar around the region.
 ''A year ago, this house would have sold within two weeks maximum, and they would have easily gotten close to $600,000,'' she said. ''This really shows you what's going on right now. It's like the market just collapsed.''
 Collapsed may be a bit strong, but interviews with brokers throughout the metropolitan region indicate that the booming housing market of the last five years, when houses sold within days and bidding wars were routine, is, in a word, done. 
 Statistics show that the inventory of available houses in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut has soared. Since buyers have more to look at, they are slower to make up their minds, and houses are staying on the market longer. Median sale prices across the region have continued to rise in most places, but not at the double-digit rates the market saw in recent years. Brokers say that after five years of through-the-roof price increases and almost frantic activity, the housing market is settling down to a new normal. While houses that are priced right can still set off bidding wars and sell in a matter of days, it is more common now for them to sit on the market for two to three months, with prices often coming down in the interim. Some houses in the $1 million range and higher have dropped in price by more than $200,000, while lower-priced homes have had smaller percentage decreases.
 In many cases, buyers and sellers have reached a wary stalemate.
 ''We're at a point where sellers don't want to lower their prices and buyers don't want to raise their bids,'' said Roberta Plutzik Baldwin, a broker at Re/Max Village Square in Upper Montclair, N.J. ''Houses that are priced properly are selling, but buyers are now saying, 'Wait a second, the market is stabilizing, so why should I pay $20,000 more when I could pay less?' ''
 Thomas Gallagher, a broker who owns eight Century 21 offices on Long Island, called it a buyer's market.
 ''I've never seen as many open houses as I see now,'' he said. 
 Mr. Gallagher said that in light of the changing climate, real estate agents have been pushing harder in recent months to convince sellers that they cannot expect the kind of price increases they saw in recent years.
 ''Agents aren't telling people to get less than a house is worth; they're just getting the asking prices down to where they should be,'' he said. ''People are finally starting to understand that even if they could have gotten more for their house last year, it's not last year.''
 In Nassau County, the median home price at the end of June was $500,000, a 6.3 percent increase over the same month in 2005; the figure for Suffolk County was $410,500, a 6.6 percent increase, according to Pearl M. Kamer, the chief economist for the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business group.
 But comparable yearly price increases in the last five years ranged from 11.1 percent to 21.1 percent. ''This year's single-digit increases will probably translate into selective declines in home prices sometime next year,'' Dr. Kamer said.
 Debi Orr, a real estate broker with Keller Williams Realty in Ridgefield, Conn., said home sellers there had been accustomed to looking at what houses in their neighborhoods had sold for in recent months and adding $100,000 to the asking price. 
 ''In the past you could add that cushion into the price and it would still sell, but you can't do that this year,'' she said. ''Now you have to pay attention to what the market indicates and not overshoot.'' 
 Serious sellers, she added, are willing to listen to that advice.
 Jeffrey Boris, for example, who lives in Ridgefield with his wife, Christine, and their two children, said he initially thought he could have sold his three-bedroom, 2,000-square-foot colonial farmhouse there this year for more than $700,000, based on what others in his neighborhood had sold for. But Ms. Orr persuaded him to set his sights lower and helped him put the house on the market for $679,000 in mid-May. ''Her counsel turned out to be very good,'' Mr. Boris said. The house sold in five days for $685,000. 
 THE new home that Mr. Boris bought, on the other hand, had been overpriced, he said, and it stayed on the market for close to nine months. The four-bedroom, 5,100-square-foot Georgian colonial, on an acre of property, went on the market last summer for $1.6 million. By the time Mr. Boris looked at it, the asking price had dropped to $1.37 million, and he bought it for $1.25 million. ''It was exactly the scenario we were looking for on the purchase side,'' he said.
 Terry Egan, editor in chief of publications for the Warren Group, which provides real estate data in New England, said that if current trends held in Connecticut, average home prices would probably drop a little by the end of the year. ''But to put it all in perspective, what we saw in the last five years was unsustainable,'' he said. ''What we're seeing now is probably necessary and overdue.''
 Another clear sign that home sales are undergoing a market correction is the growth in inventories. In Nassau County, the inventory of homes for sale was up by 75 percent in June 2006 over the previous year, to 9,934 from 5,662. Inventory in Suffolk County went up by 65 percent to 13,724 homes in June, compared with 8,318 in 2005, Dr. Kamer said. ''Those are big increases, but they're really just returning to more normal inventory levels,'' she said. 
 In Westchester County, where the median price of a single-family home was $715,000 at the end of June, a 2.1 percent increase from a year earlier, total inventory was up by 30 percent over the previous year, to 7,784 residential units, according to data from the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service. Inventory had dropped as low as 3,000 units in 2001, but the current level is much more typical, said P. Gilbert Mercurio, chief executive of the Westchester Board of Realtors in White Plains. ''We're getting back to a normal market after an abnormal run-up of five years,'' he said. But because it has happened rather quickly, he said, ''it's still being felt because it was a sudden adjustment.'' 
 Richard Gross, an investor from New York City who bought a three-bedroom house in New Rochelle in February 2005, hoping to resell it at a profit after making renovations, said he had had trouble getting the price he wanted. He bought the house for $315,000 and put in more than $100,000 in repairs and renovations, he said. Now, despite having had the house appraised at $555,000 and putting it on the market three months ago, he has yet to receive an offer that exceeds $500,000.
 ''It seems like the boom kind of ended with everybody's talk of the bubble bursting,'' he said. ''I think all the talk actually made it happen.''
 There are several reasons for the increase in inventory, according to George Stone, senior vice president for Sotheby's International Realty in Westchester. Some sellers have put their homes on the market in the hopes of latching onto the housing boom before it ends definitively.
 Mr. Stone also pointed to aging baby boomers who are just now reaching retirement age and therefore considering whether to downsize. But since the demand for the smaller houses and condominiums most often sought by empty-nesters exceeds the current supply in the region, many of those sellers aren't highly motivated. ''A lot of those sellers are interested in moving, but they might not have a place to move to yet, so they won't sell unless they get their price,'' he said.
 The increased inventory naturally leads to homes staying on the market longer. ''People have so much more to look at, and they don't feel the pressure to make a decision in two seconds flat,'' said Louise Brooks, an agent with the Prudential Douglas Elliman office in Locust Valley, N.Y.
 For the last five years until this year, most homes in Hudson and Bergen Counties were selling within a month, according to Phyllis Bixon, regional vice president for Weichert Realtors in northeastern New Jersey. Today, she said, there are some areas where houses stay on the market for 5 to 6 months, even as long as 10 months. 
 ''There are some buyers who feel they want to wait for the bottom, but you never know when the bottom's going to come,'' she said. ''And if I had to guess, I'd say we're not so far from the bottom right now.'' 
 According to the New Jersey Multiple Listing Service, the inventory of single-family homes in Bergen, Hudson, Passaic and Essex Counties was up 49 percent in June, to 6,768, compared with 4,538 in June 2005. The median sales price was up 3 percent, to $470,000; each of the previous five years had seen double-digit increases, going to $455,000 in 2005 from $275,000 in 2000.
 Marc and Pamela Ross of Fair Lawn, N.J., looked at 25 houses in New Jersey last year, but never made an offer because prices were too high, they said. They resumed their house hunt a few weeks ago when they saw prices start to go down. Recently they were looking at a two-story colonial in Englewood that was listed at $424,900. 
 ''You realize now some of these houses now are in our reach,'' Mrs. Ross said, as they toured an open house in Englewood one recent Sunday.
 ''We're liking the prices better, a lot better than before,'' Mr. Ross said.

 ASKING PRICE: (ORIGINAL PRICE): $569,000 ($629,000)
TAXES: $8,511
ON THE MARKET SINCE: May 1
LISTING AGENT: Renee LePore, Beryl Z. Realty, New Rochelle
BACKGROUND: At the height of the market three years ago, this house would have probably sold quickly at the original asking price, Ms. LePore said. ''But now there are just too many houses on the market,'' she said, adding that last year there would have been about five houses up for sale in this neighborhood at any given time, but today there are about 20.

WHERE: 42 Longview Road, PORT WASHINGTON, N.Y.
DESCRIPTION: 4 bedroom colonial with 2.5 baths on 0.21 acre
ASKING PRICE: $949,000 ($1.149 million)
TAXES: $14,587
ON THE MARKET SINCE: June 5
LISTING AGENT: Loretta DiBenedetto and Donna Quinn, Century 21 Laffey Associates, Port Washington
BACKGROUND: The house was first listed with another broker last fall with an initial asking price of $1.349 million, according to Kathy Christie, branch manager of Century 21 Laffey Associates. The price has been reduced five times, most recently on July 21. ''When you list too high, your house is going to sit,'' Ms. Christie said. ''As the market progressed, the reductions did not come fast enough. Now it's the perfect price.''

WHERE: 64 Gregory Avenue, WEST ORANGE, N.J.
DESCRIPTION: 6 bedroom colonial with 3 full and 2 half baths on 0.96 acre
ASKING PRICE: $699,000 ($825,000)
TAXES: $14,295
ON THE MARKET SINCE: April 1
LISTING AGENT: Gloria Falzer, Re/Max Village Square, Upper Montclair, N.J.
BACKGROUND: Billed as a fixer-upper, the house dates from 1920 and has an in-law suite. The kitchen and one of the bathrooms are original to the house, while one bathroom has been fully remodeled and another only partly redone. ''This house definitely needs some work,'' said Ms. Falzer. ''And people this year seem just generally to be more cautious about the money they want to spend and maybe also about the prospect of making renovations.''

WHERE: 44 Newtown Turnpike, WESTPORT, Conn.
DESCRIPTION: 4 bedroom contemporary ranch with 3.5 baths and a pool on 1.1 acres
ASKING PRICE: $1.28 million ($1.39 million)
TAXES: $9,246
ON THE MARKET SINCE: April 12
LISTING AGENT: Elpida Aravidis, Realty Quest, Darien, Conn.
BACKGROUND: The house sold for $1.125 million in its first week on the market 18 months ago. ''The Westport market has been flooded with homes,'' Ms. Aravidis said. ''Eighteen months ago, you had to grab something fast. Now, you can take your time. It's a buyer's market. They don't have to ush.''

(pg. 8)

Chart ''More to Choose From'' lists inventory of houses on the market as of June 30, 2006, compared with a year earlier. (Sources by Country Living Associates; The Otteau Report; Multiple Listing Service of Long Island; Westchester County Board of Realtors; Multiple Listing Services of Darien, Greenwich and New Canaan.)(pg. 8)

GRAPHIC: Photos: NO BUYERS YET -- Above, Frank and Lynn Balducci, with their daughter, Emily, held seven open houses and still haven't sold their colonial in Bethpage, N.Y. Right, the house they are buying is on a canal in Massapequa. (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
HOMES IN SIGHT -- Top, Jeffrey Boris, in his new home in Ridgefield, Conn., sold his previous home in five days after his real estate agent persuaded him to put it on the market for a lower price. Above, Jack Roditi of Weichert Realtors showing Pamela and Marc Ross a house in Englewood, N.J. The couple looked at houses in New Jersey last year, but said they stopped because prices were too high. They recently resumed their house hunt. (Photo by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)
(Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)
(Photo by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart: ''The Houses Sit, The Owners Wait''A sampling of houses around the metropolitan region that have been on the market for at least 60 days.WHERE: 46 Albert Place, NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y.DESCRIPTION: 3 bedroom colonial with 1 full and 2 half baths on 0.1 acre

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); STATISTICS (63%); CITIES (63%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Housing

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%)

PERSON: Vivian S Toy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



106 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; LITTER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: A Place to Put Trash, and a Message From Our Sponsor

BYLINE: By BILL SLOCUM

DATELINE: NORWALK, Conn. 

 BODY:
ADVERTISING has found its way onto the names of sports stadiums and the roofs of taxis. Now city officials in Norwalk are discussing allowing the placement of ads on new trash bins that would be spread around the city.
 Harold Alvord, Norwalk's director of public works, who is shepherding the idea, said Creative Outdoor Advertising of North Palm Beach, Fla., which had placed similar bins in other cities, was proposing to bring them to Norwalk.
The company would provide the bins, find advertisers, empty the trash and also pay the city $5 to $10 a month for each bin, depending on the amount of advertising they attract. The company said it required a minimum of 50 bins. It would keep the ad revenue, which it estimated at $5,000 to $7,500 a month for 50 bins. 
 Mr. Alvord said he liked the proposal. ''In the past, the city used wire-basket receptacles because they are cheap,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, they disappear very easily, and when full, look like a bucketful of garbage. We have been looking for cost-effective alternatives to get receptacles out there.''
 The trash bins offered by Creative Outdoor Advertising are too big to be easily stolen, and they are not see-through. The stainless steel bins are more than four feet high and six feet wide, with separate slots for recyclable and nonrecyclable trash. On the front of the bin is an area 30 inches high and 5 feet wide for the ads.
 ''Years of experience have taught us where to put and not to put bins,'' Peter Gray, a company manager, said. ''They are not overly cumbersome.''
 The Zoning Committee is scheduled to discuss the idea this Thursday. It has to decide whether to change restrictions on signs in residential neighborhoods so that the bins can be placed at bus shelters and other curb sites that extend into private property, and whether to allow the bins at city parks and beaches.
 Mr. Alvord noted that some critics, including some Zoning Committee members, had said the bins were ugly.
 ''It appears to be win-win for the city, but the issue of aesthetics certainly is there,'' said Robert Keyes, the chairman of the Zoning Commission, who also serves on the commission's Zoning Committee. He said he was concerned about placing ads in city parks.
 Mr. Alvord said there may not be a better solution to the city's litter problem. ''They tell me these units are ugly,'' he said. ''What I say to them is: 'O.K., give me an alternative that isn't ugly.' ''
 If the proposal is denied by the Zoning Committee, the city can still place bins on other city property, for example, along roads and sidewalks. But it will need at least 50 such locations for Creative Outdoor Advertising to participate. ''A certain mass is needed for the economics to make sense,'' Mr. Gray said.
 ''As part of our contractual obligation, we also pick up the area around the bin,'' he said. ''We have to make sure the sponsor's message looks good and is presented in a clean environment.''
 Mr. Gray said no other city or town in the state had expressed interest in the program. He said that his company's bins were being used in North Palm Beach; Little Rock, Ark.; and Toronto.


GRAPHIC: Photo: DUAL USE -- Toronto has trash bins like those proposed for Norwalk, Conn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ZONING (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (79%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Outdoor Advertising; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: Creative Outdoor Advertising (Co)

PERSON: Bill Slocum

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Norwalk (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



107 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: A Bad Neighbor Policy

 BODY:
The poetic adage about good fences making good neighbors evokes a countryside of orchards and boulders and cows. Westchester has all of those, but it has parkways and shopping malls and crawling traffic, too, and it is on the boundaries of these turbulent zones where the fabric of neighborliness is at its most threadbare, and the risk of squabbling and pettiness most intense. 
 Ridge Hill Village, the enormous residential, retail and commercial project that Yonkers wants to put near its northern border with the Town of Greenburgh, has ignited yet another flareup in Westchester's long tradition of boundary skirmishes and sieges. Instead of Robert Frost's taciturn gentlemen hoisting stones, we have officials lobbing lawsuits and retaliatory measures.
Greenburgh has sued in State Supreme Court, claiming that the environmental review for Ridge Hill was inadequate. Its supervisor, Paul Feiner, says he does not want to kill the project, only to wound it -- he would like to see the retail component of Ridge Hill cut in half, by 500,000 square feet, to lessen the likelihood of what he and many others in the area predict will be an ominous rise in traffic, noise and pollution.
 Mr. Feiner's solution is scoffed at in Yonkers, which wants Ridge Hill to be big -- a big and mighty economic engine that will pull the city out of its perennial financial dumps. The city is so irritated by what it considers the chronic opposition of its northern neighbors to border development that it has sought to punish the villages of Ardsley and Hastings-on-Hudson for joining Greenburgh's lawsuit. The villages once had a contract with the city to truck their yard waste to a dump on Nepperhan Avenue, but not anymore. 
 Greenburgh's lawsuit, Yonkers's petty tit-for-tat and the continued verbal sparring by officials and their surrogates in the press are an unpleasant sideshow made all the more unappetizing by the fact that the fighting could and should have been avoided. 
 As Yonkers officials and the developer, Forest City Ratner (which is also the developer of the Times's new headquarters in Manhattan), bulldoze forward with their Ridge Hill dream, they need to remain acutely aware of the facts on the ground. They can call it a ''village,'' but that doesn't make it one. It's a $660 million mini-city. If they are honest they will acknowledge that concerns about Ridge Hill have been raised by thoughtful critics from the earliest stages of the proposal, and that these concerns still have not been resolved.
 Everybody seems to agree on the worthiness of this project, at least in principle; even Mr. Feiner says he would support it if the traffic issue could be resolved. But the problems and ill will that keep sprouting in its wake can only point to heedless hastiness by the City of Yonkers in its rush to break ground on Ridge Hill. 
 Yonkers should redouble its efforts to soothe the indignation and ruffled feelings caused by its bursting ambitions. A recent closed-door meeting at Yonkers City Hall that included representatives from Yonkers, Greenburgh, Ardsley, Hastings-on-Hudson and Forest City Ratner produced no specifics but a few soothing words. It was a step forward, but a tenuous and belated one. Such meetings should continue, out in the open. Those leaf-dumping contracts should be reinstated, too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); LITIGATION (88%); RETAILERS (77%); LANDFILLS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SUPREME COURTS (54%) Editorials; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: Forest City Ratner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Yonkers (NY); Yonkers (NY); Greenburgh (NY); Ardsley (NY); Hastings-on-Hudson (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



108 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2200 words

HEADLINE: The Houses That Wouldn't Move

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
LYNN AND FRANK BALDUCCI'S house in Bethpage, N.Y., should be a real estate agent's dream: 4br, 2ba, large new EIK, formal LR, family room, new roof and siding, move-in condition.
 The Balduccis put their 1951 colonial on the market in early May. They held seven open houses, drawing 10 or so potential buyers, but they still had not gotten a single offer as of early August -- even after they dropped their asking price to $539,000 from $589,000.
''It's very depressing,'' Ms. Balducci said, adding that at least seven houses in her neighborhood had been on the market for at least as long as theirs. ''It's a little scary for us, too, because we very shortly may be in a position where we have to carry two mortgages.'' 
 The Balduccis, who have a 3 1/2-month-old girl, Emily, are moving to get more space as well as a waterfront location; they have bought a house on a canal off Seaford Creek in Massapequa and are scheduled to close on it in a few weeks. 
 The Balduccis' agent, Peggy Chugkowski, with Prudential Douglas Elliman in Massapequa, tells a story that is becoming increasingly familiar around the region.
 ''A year ago, this house would have sold within two weeks maximum, and they would have easily gotten close to $600,000,'' she said. ''This really shows you what's going on right now. It's like the market just collapsed.''
 Collapsed may be a bit strong, but interviews with brokers throughout the metropolitan region indicate that the booming housing market of the last five years, when houses sold within days and bidding wars were routine, is, in a word, done. 
 Statistics show that the inventory of available houses in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut has soared. Since buyers have more to look at, they are slower to make up their minds, and houses are staying on the market longer. Median sale prices across the region have continued to rise in most places, but not at the double-digit rates the market saw in recent years. Brokers say that after five years of through-the-roof price increases and almost frantic activity, the housing market is settling down to a new normal. While houses that are priced right can still set off bidding wars and sell in a matter of days, it is more common now for them to sit on the market for two to three months, with prices often coming down in the interim. Some houses in the $1 million range and higher have dropped in price by more than $200,000, while lower-priced homes have had smaller percentage decreases.
 In many cases, buyers and sellers have reached a wary stalemate.
 ''We're at a point where sellers don't want to lower their prices and buyers don't want to raise their bids,'' said Roberta Plutzik Baldwin, a broker at Re/Max Village Square in Upper Montclair, N.J. ''Houses that are priced properly are selling, but buyers are now saying, 'Wait a second, the market is stabilizing, so why should I pay $20,000 more when I could pay less?' ''
 Thomas Gallagher, a broker who owns eight Century 21 offices on Long Island, called it a buyer's market.
 ''I've never seen as many open houses as I see now,'' he said. 
 Mr. Gallagher said that in light of the changing climate, real estate agents have been pushing harder in recent months to convince sellers that they cannot expect the kind of price increases they saw in recent years.
 ''Agents aren't telling people to get less than a house is worth; they're just getting the asking prices down to where they should be,'' he said. ''People are finally starting to understand that even if they could have gotten more for their house last year, it's not last year.''
 In Nassau County, the median home price at the end of June was $500,000, a 6.3 percent increase over the same month in 2005; the figure for Suffolk County was $410,500, a 6.6 percent increase, according to Pearl M. Kamer, the chief economist for the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business group.
 But comparable yearly price increases in the last five years ranged from 11.1 percent to 21.1 percent. ''This year's single-digit increases will probably translate into selective declines in home prices sometime next year,'' Dr. Kamer said.
 Debi Orr, a real estate broker with Keller Williams Realty in Ridgefield, Conn., said home sellers there had been accustomed to looking at what houses in their neighborhoods had sold for in recent months and adding $100,000 to the asking price. 
 ''In the past you could add that cushion into the price and it would still sell, but you can't do that this year,'' she said. ''Now you have to pay attention to what the market indicates and not overshoot.'' 
 Serious sellers, she added, are willing to listen to that advice.
 Jeffrey Boris, for example, who lives in Ridgefield with his wife, Christine, and their two children, said he initially thought he could have sold his three-bedroom, 2,000-square-foot colonial farmhouse there this year for more than $700,000, based on what others in his neighborhood had sold for. But Ms. Orr persuaded him to set his sights lower and helped him put the house on the market for $679,000 in mid-May. ''Her counsel turned out to be very good,'' Mr. Boris said. The house sold in five days for $685,000. 
 THE new home that Mr. Boris bought, on the other hand, had been overpriced, he said, and it stayed on the market for close to nine months. The four-bedroom, 5,100-square-foot Georgian colonial, on an acre of property, went on the market last summer for $1.6 million. By the time Mr. Boris looked at it, the asking price had dropped to $1.37 million, and he bought it for $1.25 million. ''It was exactly the scenario we were looking for on the purchase side,'' he said.
 Terry Egan, editor in chief of publications for the Warren Group, which provides real estate data in New England, said that if current trends held in Connecticut, average home prices would probably drop a little by the end of the year. ''But to put it all in perspective, what we saw in the last five years was unsustainable,'' he said. ''What we're seeing now is probably necessary and overdue.''
 Another clear sign that home sales are undergoing a market correction is the growth in inventories. In Nassau County, the inventory of homes for sale was up by 75 percent in June 2006 over the previous year, to 9,934 from 5,662. Inventory in Suffolk County went up by 65 percent to 13,724 homes in June, compared with 8,318 in 2005, Dr. Kamer said. ''Those are big increases, but they're really just returning to more normal inventory levels,'' she said. 
 In Westchester County, where the median price of a single-family home was $715,000 at the end of June, a 2.1 percent increase from a year earlier, total inventory was up by 30 percent over the previous year, to 7,784 residential units, according to data from the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service. Inventory had dropped as low as 3,000 units in 2001, but the current level is much more typical, said P. Gilbert Mercurio, chief executive of the Westchester Board of Realtors in White Plains. ''We're getting back to a normal market after an abnormal run-up of five years,'' he said. But because it has happened rather quickly, he said, ''it's still being felt because it was a sudden adjustment.'' 
 Richard Gross, an investor from New York City who bought a three-bedroom house in New Rochelle in February 2005, hoping to resell it at a profit after making renovations, said he had had trouble getting the price he wanted. He bought the house for $315,000 and put in more than $100,000 in repairs and renovations, he said. Now, despite having had the house appraised at $555,000 and putting it on the market three months ago, he has yet to receive an offer that exceeds $500,000.
 ''It seems like the boom kind of ended with everybody's talk of the bubble bursting,'' he said. ''I think all the talk actually made it happen.''
 There are several reasons for the increase in inventory, according to George Stone, senior vice president for Sotheby's International Realty in Westchester. Some sellers have put their homes on the market in the hopes of latching onto the housing boom before it ends definitively.
 Mr. Stone also pointed to aging baby boomers who are just now reaching retirement age and therefore considering whether to downsize. But since the demand for the smaller houses and condominiums most often sought by empty-nesters exceeds the current supply in the region, many of those sellers aren't highly motivated. ''A lot of those sellers are interested in moving, but they might not have a place to move to yet, so they won't sell unless they get their price,'' he said.
 The increased inventory naturally leads to homes staying on the market longer. ''People have so much more to look at, and they don't feel the pressure to make a decision in two seconds flat,'' said Louise Brooks, an agent with the Prudential Douglas Elliman office in Locust Valley, N.Y.
 For the last five years until this year, most homes in Hudson and Bergen Counties were selling within a month, according to Phyllis Bixon, regional vice president for Weichert Realtors in northeastern New Jersey. Today, she said, there are some areas where houses stay on the market for 5 to 6 months, even as long as 10 months. 
 ''There are some buyers who feel they want to wait for the bottom, but you never know when the bottom's going to come,'' she said. ''And if I had to guess, I'd say we're not so far from the bottom right now.'' 
 According to the New Jersey Multiple Listing Service, the inventory of single-family homes in Bergen, Hudson, Passaic and Essex Counties was up 49 percent in June, to 6,768, compared with 4,538 in June 2005. The median sales price was up 3 percent, to $470,000; each of the previous five years had seen double-digit increases, going to $455,000 in 2005 from $275,000 in 2000.
 Marc and Pamela Ross of Fair Lawn, N.J., looked at 25 houses in New Jersey last year, but never made an offer because prices were too high, they said. They resumed their house hunt a few weeks ago when they saw prices start to go down. Recently they were looking at a two-story colonial in Englewood that was listed at $424,900. 
 ''You realize now some of these houses now are in our reach,'' Mrs. Ross said, as they toured an open house in Englewood one recent Sunday.
 ''We're liking the prices better, a lot better than before,'' Mr. Ross said.

 ASKING PRICE: (ORIGINAL PRICE): $569,000 ($629,000)
TAXES: $8,511
ON THE MARKET SINCE: May 1
LISTING AGENT: Renee LePore, Beryl Z. Realty, New Rochelle
BACKGROUND: At the height of the market three years ago, this house would have probably sold quickly at the original asking price, Ms. LePore said. ''But now there are just too many houses on the market,'' she said, adding that last year there would have been about five houses up for sale in this neighborhood at any given time, but today there are about 20.

WHERE: 42 Longview Road, PORT WASHINGTON, N.Y.
DESCRIPTION: 4 bedroom colonial with 2.5 baths on 0.21 acre
ASKING PRICE: $949,000 ($1.149 million)
TAXES: $14,587
ON THE MARKET SINCE: June 5
LISTING AGENT: Loretta DiBenedetto and Donna Quinn, Century 21 Laffey Associates, Port Washington
BACKGROUND: The house was first listed with another broker last fall with an initial asking price of $1.349 million, according to Kathy Christie, branch manager of Century 21 Laffey Associates. The price has been reduced five times, most recently on July 21. ''When you list too high, your house is going to sit,'' Ms. Christie said. ''As the market progressed, the reductions did not come fast enough. Now it's the perfect price.''

WHERE: 64 Gregory Avenue, WEST ORANGE, N.J.
DESCRIPTION: 6 bedroom colonial with 3 full and 2 half baths on 0.96 acre
ASKING PRICE: $699,000 ($825,000)
TAXES: $14,295
ON THE MARKET SINCE: April 1
LISTING AGENT: Gloria Falzer, Re/Max Village Square, Upper Montclair, N.J.
BACKGROUND: Billed as a fixer-upper, the house dates from 1920 and has an in-law suite. The kitchen and one of the bathrooms are original to the house, while one bathroom has been fully remodeled and another only partly redone. ''This house definitely needs some work,'' said Ms. Falzer. ''And people this year seem just generally to be more cautious about the money they want to spend and maybe also about the prospect of making renovations.''

WHERE: 44 Newtown Turnpike, WESTPORT, Conn.
DESCRIPTION: 4 bedroom contemporary ranch with 3.5 baths and a pool on 1.1 acres
ASKING PRICE: $1.28 million ($1.39 million)
TAXES: $9,246
ON THE MARKET SINCE: April 12
LISTING AGENT: Elpida Aravidis, Realty Quest, Darien, Conn.
BACKGROUND: The house sold for $1.125 million in its first week on the market 18 months ago. ''The Westport market has been flooded with homes,'' Ms. Aravidis said. ''Eighteen months ago, you had to grab something fast. Now, you can take your time. It's a buyer's market. They don't have to rush.''

(pg. 8)

Chart ''More to Choose From'' lists inventory of houses on the market as of June 30, 2006, compared with a year earlier.

(Sources by Country Living Associates; The Otteau Report; Multiple Listing Service of Long Island; Westchester County Board of Realtors; Multiple Listing Services of Darien, Greenwich and New Canaan.)(pg. 8)

GRAPHIC: Photos: NO BUYERS YET -- Above, Frank and Lynn Balducci, with their daughter, Emily, held seven open houses and still haven't sold their colonial in Bethpage, N.Y. Right, the house they are buying is on a canal in Massapequa. (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
HOMES IN SIGHT -- Top, Jeffrey Boris, in his new home in Ridgefield, Conn., sold his previous home in five days after his real estate agent persuaded him to put it on the market for a lower price. Above, Jack Roditi of Weichert Realtors showing Pamela and Marc Ross a house in Englewood, N.J. The couple looked at houses in New Jersey last year, but said they stopped because prices were too high. They recently resumed their house hunt. (Photo by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)
(Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)
(Photo by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times(pg. 8)Chart: ''The Houses Sit, The Owners Wait''A sampling of houses around the metropolitan region that have been on the market for at least 60 days.WHERE: 46 Albert Place, NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y.DESCRIPTION: 3 bedroom colonial with 1 full and 2 half baths on 0.1 acre

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); STATISTICS (63%); CITIES (63%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Housing

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%)

PERSON: Vivian S Toy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



109 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; LITTER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: A Place to Put Trash, and a Message From Our Sponsor

BYLINE: By BILL SLOCUM

DATELINE: NORWALK, Conn. 

 BODY:
ADVERTISING has found its way onto the names of sports stadiums and the roofs of taxis. Now city officials in Norwalk are discussing allowing the placement of ads on new trash bins that would be spread around the city.
 Harold Alvord, Norwalk's director of public works, who is shepherding the idea, said Creative Outdoor Advertising of North Palm Beach, Fla., which had placed similar bins in other cities, was proposing to bring them to Norwalk.
The company would provide the bins, find advertisers, empty the trash and also pay the city $5 to $10 a month for each bin, depending on the amount of advertising they attract. The company said it required a minimum of 50 bins. It would keep the ad revenue, which it estimated at $5,000 to $7,500 a month for 50 bins. 
 Mr. Alvord said he liked the proposal. ''In the past, the city used wire-basket receptacles because they are cheap,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, they disappear very easily, and when full, look like a bucketful of garbage. We have been looking for cost-effective alternatives to get receptacles out there.''
 The trash bins offered by Creative Outdoor Advertising are too big to be easily stolen, and they are not see-through. The stainless steel bins are more than four feet high and six feet wide, with separate slots for recyclable and nonrecyclable trash. On the front of the bin is an area 30 inches high and 5 feet wide for the ads.
 ''Years of experience have taught us where to put and not to put bins,'' Peter Gray, a company manager, said. ''They are not overly cumbersome.''
 The Zoning Committee is scheduled to discuss the idea this Thursday. It has to decide whether to change restrictions on signs in residential neighborhoods so that the bins can be placed at bus shelters and other curb sites that extend into private property, and whether to allow the bins at city parks and beaches.
 Mr. Alvord noted that some critics, including some Zoning Committee members, had said the bins were ugly.
 ''It appears to be win-win for the city, but the issue of aesthetics certainly is there,'' said Robert Keyes, the chairman of the Zoning Commission, who also serves on the commission's Zoning Committee. He said he was concerned about placing ads in city parks.
 Mr. Alvord said there may not be a better solution to the city's litter problem. ''They tell me these units are ugly,'' he said. ''What I say to them is: 'O.K., give me an alternative that isn't ugly.' ''
 If the proposal is denied by the Zoning Committee, the city can still place bins on other city property, for example, along roads and sidewalks. But it will need at least 50 such locations for Creative Outdoor Advertising to participate. ''A certain mass is needed for the economics to make sense,'' Mr. Gray said.
 ''As part of our contractual obligation, we also pick up the area around the bin,'' he said. ''We have to make sure the sponsor's message looks good and is presented in a clean environment.''
 Mr. Gray said no other city or town in the state had expressed interest in the program. He said that his company's bins were being used in North Palm Beach; Little Rock, Ark.; and Toronto.


GRAPHIC: Photo: DUAL USE -- Toronto has trash bins like those proposed for Norwalk, Conn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ZONING (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (79%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Outdoor Advertising; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: Creative Outdoor Advertising (Co)

PERSON: Bill Slocum

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Norwalk (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



110 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Cities Grow Up, And Some See Sprawl

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
FOR decades, planners and environmentalists have been fighting a grinding war against sprawl. They have argued that as families seeking affordable homes pushed the suburban fringe ever outward, new development has cannibalized parks and open space, strained water and power resources, and snarled highways in increasingly unmanageable traffic. 
 But a new front has opened in the battle against sprawl: cities. From Austin, Tex., to Palo Alto, Calif., from Washington, D.C., to Denver, clashes are unfolding between residents of older, low-density neighborhoods and alliances of planners, politicians and real estate companies that see those neighborhoods as prime locations for higher-density mixed-use projects. 
The debate centers around what, exactly, is the best way to grow. Supporters of such development -- known as ''infill'' because it involves redeveloping existing neighborhoods -- say higher-density land use in cities is one key to easing suburban sprawl, since it promotes more efficient use of land, energy and transportation.
 Opponents call it ''vertical sprawl'' -- and argue that it brings many of the same problems to communities as traditional sprawl. Last month in Brooklyn, when a state development agency unveiled a long-awaited environmental impact study of the proposed Atlantic Yards project, critics complained that their worst fears had been realized.
 The developer, Forest City Ratner Companies, wants to plop more than a dozen buildings as high as 62 stories onto 22 acres near downtown Brooklyn, where a mix of vacant lots, low-rise apartments, abandoned buildings and condominiums now sit. The developer says that the massive residential, office and arena complex would bring housing and jobs to a borough in need of both. According to the state study, however, the project would also create significant traffic and parking problems, require an extra school's worth of classrooms, and cast shadows over nearby residential neighborhoods.
 While the debate over vertical sprawl can differ from the suburban kind in the particulars -- building height, for example, is often a key issue -- the general issues are remarkably consistent: traffic, parking and the cost of supporting new projects with schools, water and other municipal services.
 ''Regions and cities, in trying to combat sprawl, are encouraging infill development,'' said Ted Droettboom, an official with the Association of Bay Area Governments. ''But you're doing that with existing neighborhoods with existing neighbors, who fear traffic, who fear density and height.''
 The trend toward infill development is in part a product of the ''smart growth'' movement that has gained currency among land-use planners and environmentalists. Higher-density, mixed-use development built around mass transit hubs, they argue, is more environmentally sound than suburban sprawl and produces better quality of life.
 Others are skeptical. ''Smart growth has an appealing spin, but in most cases when it hits the ground in working-class urban communities, along transit corridors, it means displacement and gentrification, often by redevelopment eminent domain,'' said Dana Smith, a homeowner in Daly City, a suburb south of San Francisco and a board member of the Original Daly City Protective Association, which opposes infill development in the Bay Area. ''There's a problem if you put a high-rise next to one- and two-story homes,'' she said. ''It's a problem when you put in high-rises where there's already a shortage of parking.''
 Wherever they occur, the battles over vertical sprawl tend to pit neighborhood associations against wealthy developers and builder-friendly politicians. In Seattle, local groups are fighting an ambitious proposal by the city's mayor, Greg Nickels, to redevelop the downtown area with higher-density housing and office space. They also oppose efforts by Vulcan Real Estate, owned by Microsoft's co-founder Paul G. Allen, to redevelop swaths of the South Lake Union neighborhood into a magnet for biotechnology companies.
 ''Their concern is the loss of a certain social character, increased congestion, and the loss of open space,'' said John V. Fox, coordinator of the Seattle Displacement Coalition.
 There's often little correlation between a proposal's size and the depth of the opposition to it. In Berkeley, Calif., intense controversy has erupted over plans to turn a single parking lot next to a subway station into a 300-unit apartment and retail complex. ''There seems to be an almost religious objection to height,'' said Mr. Droettboom. ''People say, 'It's just too tall.' '' 
 Opponents, however, question the promised benefits of development, arguing that high-density infill projects are too often tilted toward affluent buyers, which forces lower-income families out to the suburbs and negates many of the hoped-for reductions in horizontal sprawl. And they tend to see smart growth itself as a stalking horse for developers who merely want to attract government subsidies and the all-important tool of eminent domain.
 ''They use this specious argument about smart growth to dump their density in urban cores,'' Ms. Smith said. ''We want to protect these places from being taken over by infill and driving out working-class people.''
 Part of what forces these conflicts is a slow but steady resurgence of urban life over the last two decades. ''People are beginning to realize that living far away from your jobs both has a personal cost and a financial cost,'' said Amy Liu, deputy director of the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution and a supporter of infill development. 
 That influx has helped spark growth in places like San Diego, Chattanooga, Tenn., and Portland, Ore., where once-fallow downtowns now bustle with new shops and restaurants. Though nationally the housing market shows signs of softening, in some cities, the resurgence of urban living has created strong housing markets where none existed before. Elsewhere, it has driven up demand where prices were already high.
 ''It comes down to basic economics and the supply-demand equation,'' said Dan Fasulo, director of market research for Real Capital Analytics. ''In many of these urban cores around the country, especially in cities that the market considers the 'global cities,' there seems to be a tremendous amount of demand and not enough supply to meet demand.''
 Which means the war over vertical sprawl may have just begun.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stephen Savage)Chart: ''Paying for the New Neighbors''A University of Kentucky study found that the cost of government services -- like the police, schools and sewage -- were much higher in counties with low-density sprawl.For every 1,000 residents who move into a county, taxes increased (or decreased) by these amounts for a household of four:COUNTIES WITH URBAN CENTERSFayette (where most growth is higher density): -$1.08Jefferson (low density): $36.82SUBURBAN COUNTIESShelby (high density): $88.27Pendleton (low density): $1,222.39(Source by Brookings Institution)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); TRENDS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%) Urban Areas; Area Planning and Renewal; Suburbs ; Urban Areas

COMPANY: RATNER COS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (67%)

PERSON: Nicholas Confessore

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



111 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: The Challenge of Rebuilding

 BODY:
It is easier to provide blankets and water to disaster victims than to build them new homes; easier to relieve immediate suffering than to replace all that was lost. More than a year and a half after a powerful tsunami laid waste to Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka and beyond, people are still waiting for permanent homes in the worst-hit areas. 
 As Jane Perlez reported recently in The Times, the aid groups Oxfam and Save the Children have both fired staff members working on their housing programs in Indonesia. Only 8,900 of a planned 20,000 temporary houses were completed and fewer than a quarter of the 120,000 needed homes have been built in the ruined Indonesian province of Aceh. In some cases aid groups built unlivable houses out of untreated wood that will have to be demolished.
It is inevitable that relief agencies will look less efficient when doing long-term reconstruction than during the immediate aftermath of a catastrophic event, when rules, red tape and procedures are subordinated to the higher goal of human survival. After direct danger fades, building codes and labor laws may come into play. Shortages of building materials and labor often drive up costs and increase the temptation for graft and corruption. And officials need to balance the haste to build permanent housing with safety considerations, so victims are not left vulnerable to the next onslaught.
 But none of this should be seen as an excuse for bad performance by aid groups and local governments. The unsatisfactory results of recent reconstruction efforts from Indonesia to Iraq to New Orleans will inevitably lead to some disillusion on the part of donors and taxpayers, unless people have faith that the things that went wrong can be fixed.
 Oversight is always crucial. What we have learned recently is that someone needs to be checking up on progress or the lack of it as it takes place, not long after the fact. Simple checks made by outside investigators uncovered overlooked cases of blatant fraud involving relief money distributed in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, and donors had a right to wonder why they were not made much sooner. In Iraq, auditors for the special inspector general discovered that many reconstruction contracts under the Army Corps of Engineers' supervision resulted in little or no actual work being performed. For instance, only 20 of a planned 150 health clinics are now expected to be completed. 
 It is important to involve local people, both for their expertise and to jump-start the economy in the affected areas. But those are not necessarily the people who have the muscle and expertise to get in the front of the line. After Katrina, large, politically connected companies had an advantage in bidding for federal contracts, such as for the removal of tons of debris.
 Coordination is essential, but efforts to harmonize aid groups after the tsunami fell short. A recent report on the recovery found a great deal of duplication, and evidence that some groups even worked at cross-purposes with one another, in one case building houses right on the same spot where another organization had planned to build a road.
 It is an indication of how far relief organizations are from finding the best possible procedures that the effort in Indonesia actually compares favorably to the aftermath of other large-scale disasters. The pace of reconstruction there far outstrips the halting progress made in New Orleans as we near the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina's devastation of the Gulf Coast. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TSUNAMIS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (88%); TROPICAL STORMS (85%); HURRICANES (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); WEATHER (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (70%); ENGINEERING (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (52%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); ARMIES (50%) Earthquakes; Editorials; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Tsunamis and Tidal Waves

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) INDONESIA (94%); THAILAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (91%) Indonesia; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



112 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: The Work Ethic In a New Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I loved David Brooks's column about the reversal of the work ethic between the middle class and the upper class (''Bye-Bye, Bootstraps,'' Aug. 3), but the emergence of leisure-loving middle-class men is more than dinner-party fodder. It signals a serious soup. 
What is driving upper-class people to work longer hours than the working class is their realization that given the dynamic uncertainties of a very fast and fluid economy (a relatively new development), they have the most to lose from a day at the beach, and the most to protect (and even gain) by rolling up their sleeves.
 As the economic divide between the rich and the rest of us grows, more middle-class people seem to be questioning why they are slaving away for scraps. 

Hara Estroff Marano
New York, Aug. 3, 2006

The writer is editor at large at Psychology Today.

To the Editor:
 David Brooks, noting a July 31 front-page article, writes that middle- and working-class men who have dropped out of the work force have adopted the values of (or perhaps become) the leisure class.
 He glosses over the fundamental explanation offered by the reporters Louis Uchitelle and David Leonhardt for the phenomenon of men dropping out of the work force: they are laid off from decent jobs and can't find work that is as rewarding in pay or responsibility.
 In his gentle kidding, Mr. Brooks ignores the devastating psychological toll taken by layoffs, indicated in the news article and a dominant theme in Mr. Uchitelle's recent book, ''The Disposable American.''
 Mr. Brooks also disregards the impending financial crash that awaits the dropout men.
 There is a social tragedy here as well. It is a searing critique of society -- and an enormous social waste -- that our society can't find useful, engaging and productive work for many adults in what would otherwise be the prime of their working lives.

Robert Weissman
Washington, Aug. 3, 2006

To the Editor:
 David Brooks writes: ''Today's super-wealthy no longer go off on four-month grand tours of Europe, play gin-soaked Gatsbyesque croquet tournaments or spend hours doing needlepoint while thinking in full paragraphs like the heroines of Jane Austen novels. Instead, their lives are marked by sleep deprivation and conference calls.''
 Jane Austen's women were squarely in the middle class and often part of families on the verge of economic ruin. The reason they sat home doing needlepoint is that women of their class weren't allowed to do much else. 
 The reason they thought in full paragraphs is that they were blessed to be the creations of Jane Austen. 

Betsy Feist
New York, Aug. 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHICS (90%); WRITERS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Labor

PERSON: Hara Estroff Marano; Robert Weissman; Betsy Feist; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



113 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Taxing Telecommuters

BYLINE: By Nicole Belson Goluboff. 
Nicole Belson Goluboff, a lawyer, is the author, most recently, of ''The Law of Telecommuting.''

DATELINE: Scarsdale, N.Y. 

 BODY:
WHILE telecommuting was once regarded as a novel accommodation for a few privileged employees, millions of Americans now work from home, and the practice is regularly cited as part of the solution to many of the nation's toughest problems. For good reason: telecommuting can help us manage high gas prices, reduce our foreign oil dependence and ease road congestion. It can expand the economies of rural communities, enable older Americans to defer retirement and expand employment opportunities for the disabled, including our war veterans. It can also enable government and businesses to continue functioning in the event of a terrorist attack, catastrophic storm, flu pandemic or other emergency. 
 Despite these benefits, however, New York State imposes a penalty tax on nonresidents who do work at home for their New York employers. That gives the nonresidents who commute to New York -- including approximately 400,000 people from Connecticut and New Jersey, according to 2000 census data -- powerful reason to think twice before telecommuting. 
Under New York's ''convenience of the employer'' rule, nonresidents employed by New York companies who telecommute some or most of the time may owe taxes to New York both on the income they earn when they come to New York and on the income they earn when they work from home, outside New York. Because a telecommuter's home state may also tax the income earned at home, the telecommuter may be taxed twice on that income. 
 Take Edward Zelinsky, a Connecticut resident and professor at the Cardozo Law School in Manhattan. Professor Zelinsky spent some workdays in New York, teaching classes and meeting with students, and others at home, doing research, writing and grading. Connecticut taxed him on the income he earned in Connecticut. Applying the convenience rule, New York taxed the same income.
 Even if a telecommuter's home state offers the telecommuter a credit for the tax paid to New York on the non-New York income, he may still be penalized. If New York's tax rate is higher than the home state's, for example, the telecommuter may have to pay the New York rate. Further, his tax dollars will support the schools and other public services in New York, where he neither lives nor votes. While that's true for ordinary commuters too, it seems particularly unfair for nonresidents who may come in to the state to work very rarely. 
 Under the convenience rule, a nonresident may be able to avoid the telecommuter tax if he can prove that his telework arrangement is an employer ''necessity.'' But proving necessity is virtually impossible. 
 Until recently, New York took the position that telework was necessary only if the telecommuter's job involved tasks that could not possibly be accomplished in the New York office -- testing firearms or sports cars, for example. But since most work that can be done by telecommuting can also be done in a New York office, few telework arrangements passed muster. 
 Indeed, in a case decided this year, New York determined that a New Jersey resident's telework arrangement was not necessary even though the employer required him to do certain work from home. The employee worked with highly confidential data, and the employer thought the main office was not a secure enough environment in which to use the data. New York's view? The employer could have adapted the office to make it safer.
 In May, New York issued a memorandum purporting to relax its telework tax policy. But the memorandum offered false hope. Under the new policy, telecommuters will still have to prove, in essence, that telework is necessary for their employers, and proving necessity will be just as hard. 
 For example, according to the memorandum, a telecommuter might be able to escape the telecommuter tax if, among other things, the employer pays the telecommuter rent for his home office; the employer specifically identifies the telecommuter's home office as a company place of business in its advertising; the employer maintains a separate telephone listing for the telecommuter's home office; or the telecommuter never uses his home office for personal purposes. As with New York's old policy, very few telecommuters will be able to satisfy such conditions.
 In two recent cases, telecommuters have claimed that, in addition to being unfair, New York's application of the convenience rule to them was unconstitutional. However, the United States Supreme Court refused to hear their claims. 
 One of these telecommuters was Professor Zelinsky; the other was Thomas Huckaby, a Tennessee resident who worked for a New York employer as a computer programmer. New York taxed Mr. Huckaby on 100 percent of his income, even though he spent only 25 percent of his work time in New York. 
 By rejecting these cases, the Supreme Court effectively gave New York -- and any other state -- license to tax telecommuters everywhere. 
 In May 2005, Senator Chris Dodd, a Democrat, and Representative Christopher Shays, a Republican, both from Connecticut, introduced legislation to protect telecommuters nationwide. This legislation would prohibit states from taxing nonresidents on the income they earn when they work from home. The measure, which has support in both houses and has garnered endorsements from both telework and taxpayer advocates, is pending before the House Judiciary Committee and the Senate Finance Committee.
 Because the policy revision New York issued three months ago offered telecommuters no meaningful relief, it seemed merely a ploy to derail the federal bill. Far from obviating a Congressional remedy, however, New York's misleading tactics underscore the need for it. Congress must pass the Dodd-Shays measure and send a clear message to New York. 
 The country needs telework to help address the health, energy, transportation and homeland security challenges before us, and New York's thirst for nonresident revenue simply can't take priority.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUTING (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); DISABLED WORKERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); VETERANS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); CENSUS (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (56%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%); TERRORISM (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); EPIDEMICS (55%); INFLUENZA (55%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Taxation; Law and Legislation; Working at Home

PERSON: Nicole Belson Goluboff; Christopher J (Sen) Dodd; Christopher (Repr) Shays

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



114 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; LITTER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: A Place to Put Trash, and a Message From Our Sponsor

BYLINE: By BILL SLOCUM

DATELINE: NORWALK, Conn. 

 BODY:
ADVERTISING has found its way onto the names of sports stadiums and the roofs of taxis. Now city officials in Norwalk are discussing allowing the placement of ads on new trash bins that would be spread around the city.
 Harold Alvord, Norwalk's director of public works, who is shepherding the idea, said Creative Outdoor Advertising of North Palm Beach, Fla., which had placed similar bins in other cities, was proposing to bring them to Norwalk.
The company would provide the bins, find advertisers, empty the trash and also pay the city $5 to $10 a month for each bin, depending on the amount of advertising they attract. The company said it required a minimum of 50 bins. It would keep the ad revenue, which it estimated at $5,000 to $7,500 a month for 50 bins. 
 Mr. Alvord said he liked the proposal. ''In the past, the city used wire-basket receptacles because they are cheap,'' he said. ''Unfortunately, they disappear very easily, and when full, look like a bucketful of garbage. We have been looking for cost-effective alternatives to get receptacles out there.''
 The trash bins offered by Creative Outdoor Advertising are too big to be easily stolen, and they are not see-through. The stainless steel bins are more than four feet high and six feet wide, with separate slots for recyclable and nonrecyclable trash. On the front of the bin is an area 30 inches high and 5 feet wide for the ads.
 ''Years of experience have taught us where to put and not to put bins,'' Peter Gray, a company manager, said. ''They are not overly cumbersome.''
 The Zoning Committee is scheduled to discuss the idea this Thursday. It has to decide whether to change restrictions on signs in residential neighborhoods so that the bins can be placed at bus shelters and other curb sites that extend into private property, and whether to allow the bins at city parks and beaches.
 Mr. Alvord noted that some critics, including some Zoning Committee members, had said the bins were ugly.
 ''It appears to be win-win for the city, but the issue of aesthetics certainly is there,'' said Robert Keyes, the chairman of the Zoning Commission, who also serves on the commission's Zoning Committee. He said he was concerned about placing ads in city parks.
 Mr. Alvord said there may not be a better solution to the city's litter problem. ''They tell me these units are ugly,'' he said. ''What I say to them is: 'O.K., give me an alternative that isn't ugly.' ''
 If the proposal is denied by the Zoning Committee, the city can still place bins on other city property, for example, along roads and sidewalks. But it will need at least 50 such locations for Creative Outdoor Advertising to participate. ''A certain mass is needed for the economics to make sense,'' Mr. Gray said.
 ''As part of our contractual obligation, we also pick up the area around the bin,'' he said. ''We have to make sure the sponsor's message looks good and is presented in a clean environment.''
 Mr. Gray said no other city or town in the state had expressed interest in the program. He said that his company's bins were being used in North Palm Beach; Little Rock, Ark.; and Toronto.


GRAPHIC: Photo: DUAL USE -- Toronto has trash bins like those proposed for Norwalk, Conn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ZONING (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (79%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Outdoor Advertising; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: Creative Outdoor Advertising (Co)

PERSON: Bill Slocum

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Norwalk (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



115 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2200 words

HEADLINE: The Houses That Wouldn't Move

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY; Nate Schweber contributed reporting in New Jersey for this article.

 BODY:
LYNN AND FRANK BALDUCCI'S house in Bethpage, N.Y., should be a real estate agent's dream: 4br, 2ba, large new EIK, formal LR, family room, new roof and siding, move-in condition.
 The Balduccis put their 1951 colonial on the market in early May. They held seven open houses, drawing 10 or so potential buyers, but they still had not gotten a single offer as of early August -- even after they dropped their asking price to $539,000 from $589,000.
''It's very depressing,'' Ms. Balducci said, adding that at least seven houses in her neighborhood had been on the market for at least as long as theirs. ''It's a little scary for us, too, because we very shortly may be in a position where we have to carry two mortgages.'' 
 The Balduccis, who have a 3 1/2-month-old girl, Emily, are moving to get more space as well as a waterfront location; they have bought a house on a canal off Seaford Creek in Massapequa and are scheduled to close on it in a few weeks. 
 The Balduccis' agent, Peggy Chugkowski, with Prudential Douglas Elliman in Massapequa, tells a story that is becoming increasingly familiar around the region.
 ''A year ago, this house would have sold within two weeks maximum, and they would have easily gotten close to $600,000,'' she said. ''This really shows you what's going on right now. It's like the market just collapsed.''
 Collapsed may be a bit strong, but interviews with brokers throughout the metropolitan region indicate that the booming housing market of the last five years, when houses sold within days and bidding wars were routine, is, in a word, done. 
 Statistics show that the inventory of available houses in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut has soared. Since buyers have more to look at, they are slower to make up their minds, and houses are staying on the market longer. Median sale prices across the region have continued to rise in most places, but not at the double-digit rates the market saw in recent years. Brokers say that after five years of through-the-roof price increases and almost frantic activity, the housing market is settling down to a new normal. While houses that are priced right can still set off bidding wars and sell in a matter of days, it is more common now for them to sit on the market for two to three months, with prices often coming down in the interim. Some houses in the $1 million range and higher have dropped in price by more than $200,000, while lower-priced homes have had smaller percentage decreases.
 In many cases, buyers and sellers have reached a wary stalemate.
 ''We're at a point where sellers don't want to lower their prices and buyers don't want to raise their bids,'' said Roberta Plutzik Baldwin, a broker at Re/Max Village Square in Upper Montclair, N.J. ''Houses that are priced properly are selling, but buyers are now saying, 'Wait a second, the market is stabilizing, so why should I pay $20,000 more when I could pay less?' ''
 Thomas Gallagher, a broker who owns eight Century 21 offices on Long Island, called it a buyer's market.
 ''I've never seen as many open houses as I see now,'' he said. 
 Mr. Gallagher said that in light of the changing climate, real estate agents have been pushing harder in recent months to convince sellers that they cannot expect the kind of price increases they saw in recent years.
 ''Agents aren't telling people to get less than a house is worth; they're just getting the asking prices down to where they should be,'' he said. ''People are finally starting to understand that even if they could have gotten more for their house last year, it's not last year.''
 In Nassau County, the median home price at the end of June was $500,000, a 6.3 percent increase over the same month in 2005; the figure for Suffolk County was $410,500, a 6.6 percent increase, according to Pearl M. Kamer, the chief economist for the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business group.
 But comparable yearly price increases in the last five years ranged from 11.1 percent to 21.1 percent. ''This year's single-digit increases will probably translate into selective declines in home prices sometime next year,'' Dr. Kamer said.
 Debi Orr, a real estate broker with Keller Williams Realty in Ridgefield, Conn., said home sellers there had been accustomed to looking at what houses in their neighborhoods had sold for in recent months and adding $100,000 to the asking price. 
 ''In the past you could add that cushion into the price and it would still sell, but you can't do that this year,'' she said. ''Now you have to pay attention to what the market indicates and not overshoot.'' 
 Serious sellers, she added, are willing to listen to that advice.
 Jeffrey Boris, for example, who lives in Ridgefield with his wife, Christine, and their two children, said he initially thought he could have sold his three-bedroom, 2,000-square-foot colonial farmhouse there this year for more than $700,000, based on what others in his neighborhood had sold for. But Ms. Orr persuaded him to set his sights lower and helped him put the house on the market for $679,000 in mid-May. ''Her counsel turned out to be very good,'' Mr. Boris said. The house sold in five days for $685,000. 
 THE new home that Mr. Boris bought, on the other hand, had been overpriced, he said, and it stayed on the market for close to nine months. The four-bedroom, 5,100-square-foot Georgian colonial, on an acre of property, went on the market last summer for $1.6 million. By the time Mr. Boris looked at it, the asking price had dropped to $1.37 million, and he bought it for $1.25 million. ''It was exactly the scenario we were looking for on the purchase side,'' he said.
 Terry Egan, editor in chief of publications for the Warren Group, which provides real estate data in New England, said that if current trends held in Connecticut, average home prices would probably drop a little by the end of the year. ''But to put it all in perspective, what we saw in the last five years was unsustainable,'' he said. ''What we're seeing now is probably necessary and overdue.''
 Another clear sign that home sales are undergoing a market correction is the growth in inventories. In Nassau County, the inventory of homes for sale was up by 75 percent in June 2006 over the previous year, to 9,934 from 5,662. Inventory in Suffolk County went up by 65 percent to 13,724 homes in June, compared with 8,318 in 2005, Dr. Kamer said. ''Those are big increases, but they're really just returning to more normal inventory levels,'' she said. 
 In Westchester County, where the median price of a single-family home was $715,000 at the end of June, a 2.1 percent increase from a year earlier, total inventory was up by 30 percent over the previous year, to 7,784 residential units, according to data from the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service. Inventory had dropped as low as 3,000 units in 2001, but the current level is much more typical, said P. Gilbert Mercurio, chief executive of the Westchester Board of Realtors in White Plains. ''We're getting back to a normal market after an abnormal run-up of five years,'' he said. But because it has happened rather quickly, he said, ''it's still being felt because it was a sudden adjustment.'' 
 Richard Gross, an investor from New York City who bought a three-bedroom house in New Rochelle in February 2005, hoping to resell it at a profit after making renovations, said he had had trouble getting the price he wanted. He bought the house for $315,000 and put in more than $100,000 in repairs and renovations, he said. Now, despite having had the house appraised at $555,000 and putting it on the market three months ago, he has yet to receive an offer that exceeds $500,000.
 ''It seems like the boom kind of ended with everybody's talk of the bubble bursting,'' he said. ''I think all the talk actually made it happen.''
 There are several reasons for the increase in inventory, according to George Stone, senior vice president for Sotheby's International Realty in Westchester. Some sellers have put their homes on the market in the hopes of latching onto the housing boom before it ends definitively.
 Mr. Stone also pointed to aging baby boomers who are just now reaching retirement age and therefore considering whether to downsize. But since the demand for the smaller houses and condominiums most often sought by empty-nesters exceeds the current supply in the region, many of those sellers aren't highly motivated. ''A lot of those sellers are interested in moving, but they might not have a place to move to yet, so they won't sell unless they get their price,'' he said.
 The increased inventory naturally leads to homes staying on the market longer. ''People have so much more to look at, and they don't feel the pressure to make a decision in two seconds flat,'' said Louise Brooks, an agent with the Prudential Douglas Elliman office in Locust Valley, N.Y.
 For the last five years until this year, most homes in Hudson and Bergen Counties were selling within a month, according to Phyllis Bixon, regional vice president for Weichert Realtors in northeastern New Jersey. Today, she said, there are some areas where houses stay on the market for 5 to 6 months, even as long as 10 months. 
 ''There are some buyers who feel they want to wait for the bottom, but you never know when the bottom's going to come,'' she said. ''And if I had to guess, I'd say we're not so far from the bottom right now.'' 
 According to the New Jersey Multiple Listing Service, the inventory of single-family homes in Bergen, Hudson, Passaic and Essex Counties was up 49 percent in June, to 6,768, compared with 4,538 in June 2005. The median sales price was up 3 percent, to $470,000; each of the previous five years had seen double-digit increases, going to $455,000 in 2005 from $275,000 in 2000.
 Marc and Pamela Ross of Fair Lawn, N.J., looked at 25 houses in New Jersey last year, but never made an offer because prices were too high, they said. They resumed their house hunt a few weeks ago when they saw prices start to go down. Recently they were looking at a two-story colonial in Englewood that was listed at $424,900. 
 ''You realize now some of these houses now are in our reach,'' Mrs. Ross said, as they toured an open house in Englewood one recent Sunday.
 ''We're liking the prices better, a lot better than before,'' Mr. Ross said.

 ASKING PRICE: (ORIGINAL PRICE): $569,000 ($629,000)
TAXES: $8,511
ON THE MARKET SINCE: May 1
LISTING AGENT: Renee LePore, Beryl Z. Realty, New Rochelle
BACKGROUND: At the height of the market three years ago, this house would have probably sold quickly at the original asking price, Ms. LePore said. ''But now there are just too many houses on the market,'' she said, adding that last year there would have been about five houses up for sale in this neighborhood at any given time, but today there are about 20.

WHERE: 42 Longview Road, PORT WASHINGTON, N.Y.
DESCRIPTION: 4 bedroom colonial with 2.5 baths on 0.21 acre
ASKING PRICE: $949,000 ($1.149 million)
TAXES: $14,587
ON THE MARKET SINCE: June 5
LISTING AGENT: Loretta DiBenedetto and Donna Quinn, Century 21 Laffey Associates, Port Washington
BACKGROUND: The house was first listed with another broker last fall with an initial asking price of $1.349 million, according to Kathy Christie, branch manager of Century 21 Laffey Associates. The price has been reduced five times, most recently on July 21. ''When you list too high, your house is going to sit,'' Ms. Christie said. ''As the market progressed, the reductions did not come fast enough. Now it's the perfect price.''

WHERE: 64 Gregory Avenue, WEST ORANGE, N.J.
DESCRIPTION: 6 bedroom colonial with 3 full and 2 half baths on 0.96 acre
ASKING PRICE: $699,000 ($825,000)
TAXES: $14,295
ON THE MARKET SINCE: April 1
LISTING AGENT: Gloria Falzer, Re/Max Village Square, Upper Montclair, N.J.
BACKGROUND: Billed as a fixer-upper, the house dates from 1920 and has an in-law suite. The kitchen and one of the bathrooms are original to the house, while one bathroom has been fully remodeled and another only partly redone. ''This house definitely needs some work,'' said Ms. Falzer. ''And people this year seem just generally to be more cautious about the money they want to spend and maybe also about the prospect of making renovations.''

WHERE: 44 Newtown Turnpike, WESTPORT, Conn.
DESCRIPTION: 4 bedroom contemporary ranch with 3.5 baths and a pool on 1.1 acres
ASKING PRICE: $1.28 million ($1.39 million)
TAXES: $9,246
ON THE MARKET SINCE: April 12
LISTING AGENT: Elpida Aravidis, Realty Quest, Darien, Conn.
BACKGROUND: The house sold for $1.125 million in its first week on the market 18 months ago. ''The Westport market has been flooded with homes,'' Ms. Aravidis said. ''Eighteen months ago, you had to grab something fast. Now, you can take your time. It's a buyer's market. They don't have to rush.''

(pg. 8)

Chart ''More to Choose From'' lists inventory of houses on the market as of June 30, 2006, compared with a year earlier. (Sources by Country Living Associates; The Otteau Report; Multiple Listing Service of Long Island; Westchester County Board of Realtors; Multiple Listing Services of Darien, Greenwich and New Canaan.)(pg. 8)

GRAPHIC: Photos: NO BUYERS YET -- Above, Frank and Lynn Balducci, with their daughter, Emily, held seven open houses and still haven't sold their colonial in Bethpage, N.Y. Right, the house they are buying is on a canal in Massapequa. (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
HOMES IN SIGHT -- Top, Jeffrey Boris, in his new home in Ridgefield, Conn., sold his previous home in five days after his real estate agent persuaded him to put it on the market for a lower price. Above, Jack Roditi of Weichert Realtors showing Pamela and Marc Ross a house in Englewood, N.J. The couple looked at houses in New Jersey last year, but said they stopped because prices were too high. They recently resumed their house hunt. (Photo by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)
(Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)
(Photo by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart: ''The Houses Sit, The Owners Wait''A sampling of houses around the metropolitan region that have been on the market for at least 60 days.WHERE: 46 Albert Place, NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y.DESCRIPTION: 3 bedroom colonial with 1 full and 2 half baths on 0.1 acre

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); STATISTICS (63%); CITIES (63%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Housing

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%)

PERSON: Vivian S Toy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



116 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2815 words

HEADLINE: Facing Middle Age With No Degree, and No Wife

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER and MICHELLE O'DONNELL

 BODY:
Once, virtually all Americans had married by their mid-40's. Now, many American men without college degrees find themselves still single as they approach middle age. 
 About 18 percent of men ages 40 to 44 with less than four years of college have never married, according to census estimates. That is up from about 6 percent a quarter-century ago. Among similar men ages 35 to 39, the portion jumped to 22 percent from 8 percent in that time.
At virtually every level of education, fewer Americans are marrying. But the decline is most pronounced among men with less education. Even marriage rates among female professionals over 40 have stabilized in recent years.
 The decline in marriage can be traced to many factors, experts say, including the greater economic independence of women and the greater acceptance of couples living together outside of marriage. 
 For men without higher education, though, dwindling prospects in the labor market have made a growing percentage either unwilling to marry or unable to find someone to marry them.
 Doug Thomas, 45, a computer technician with one year of college, has spent more of his adult life securing his financial footing than he has searching for a wife.
 ''I make enough where sure, I could get married, and sure, the girl would not have to work,'' said Mr. Thomas, of Fort Collins, Colo.
 But he worries what that would mean for the relationship and whether he and his wife would have time together. ''Well, now you're locked into working all those hours,'' he said. 
 Jeff Enos, 40, a high school graduate and a construction foreman in Kenosha, Wis., said he dated several women at a time when he was younger, but having lived through his parents' divorce, he wants to avoid a similar fate. That is one reason he has cautioned his girlfriend, with whom he lives, not to pressure him about marriage. 
 Perhaps most significant, many men without college degrees are not marrying because the pool of women in their social circles -- those without college degrees -- has shrunk. And the dwindling pool of women in this category often look for a mate with more education and hence better financial prospects.
 ''Men don't marry because women like myself don't need to rely on them,'' said Shenia Rudolph, 42, a divorced mother from the Bronx. 
 In 1980, only 6 percent of men in their early 40's at all levels of education and 5 percent of women in their early 40's had never married. By 2004, this portion had increased to 16.5 percent of men and about 12.5 percent of women. 
 Of the men remaining single, the greatest number are high school dropouts, especially blacks and unemployed men. But marriage is also declining among white men and men with jobs who lack college degrees.
 There is no conclusive evidence that marriage helps men. Still, some social scientists worry that not marrying may further marginalize men who are already struggling. 
 ''It is a mistake to think of this as just happening to the underclass at the bottom,'' said Christopher Jencks, a professor of sociology at Harvard. ''It is also happening to people with high school diplomas or even some college. That is the group that has been most affected by the decline in real wages in the last 30 years.''
 The course of Mr. Thomas's life has been determined as much by his finances as by circumstance or his own character. He is a tall, athletic man with cropped, George Clooney-style hair who projects a kind and upbeat persona -- surely a catch to some women in Fort Collins. Yet Mr. Thomas, who was laid off from Lockheed Martin as the electronics industry shifted jobs overseas, has experienced so much job insecurity that for most of his adult life, a stable economic foundation has eluded him.
 It is only now, working for Hewlett-Packard, that he has been able to pay off debts and build a nest egg. The job, however, which pays about $56,000 a year, could end next year, leaving Mr. Thomas, who would like to begin a lower-paying career as a graphic designer, feeling a greater urgency to save.
 One way he has cut costs is by giving up his expensive one-bedroom apartment. Two years ago, he rented a room in a town house from Anna Mahoney, a single woman four years his junior. They pool household purchases and buy in bulk. Their platonic friendship serves as a stand-in for their families, who live out of state. 
 Yet their domesticity has also bred a level of intimacy that can alienate romantic partners. Ms. Mahoney frequently refers to herself and Mr. Thomas as ''we.'' Mr. Thomas dutifully churns the oil in the jars of almond butter and takes out the garbage.
 ''She always says: 'You're going to be my roommate forever. Then when I get married, you're going to live in my basement,' '' Mr. Thomas said. ''I'm like, 'Pleeease. When you start dating, I'm going to be so out of there.' ''
 When Mr. Thomas fell in love last year and began bringing his girlfriend to the town house, Ms. Mahoney complained that his girlfriend, a 33-year-old dialysis technician, was sloppy. Meanwhile, his girlfriend objected to the time that he spent with Ms. Mahoney, Mr. Thomas said. 
 ''It was a constant form of stress,'' he said. The two had discussed moving in together, but the bickering made them wonder if it was a good idea. In February, after one year together, they broke up. 
 ''I miss her horribly,'' Mr. Thomas said quietly one recent Saturday after stopping at a health store to buy vitamins on Ms. Mahoney's shopping list. 

Pool of Potential Mates Shrinks
 A quarter-century ago, when fewer women went to college, there was a plentiful supply of potential mates for men who had only a high school diploma. Even men who dropped out of high school could get blue-collar jobs paying decent wages and could expect to find, and support, a wife.
 As women started climbing the educational ladder, first equaling and then surpassing men in college attendance and graduation rates, the pool of potential partners shrank.
 At the same time, broad changes in the roles of men and women upended the traditional marriage contract in which the husband provided a paycheck in return for the wife's housework and child care. 
 First, as more women joined the work force, they became less dependent on men's earnings. More than 70 percent of women ages 25 to 54 are working today, up from about half of such women 30 years ago.
 While women were gaining economic independence, wages were slumping in the blue-collar jobs that in the past allowed less-educated men to support a family. Women, largely employed in service industries more resilient than manufacturing, fared better. 
 Between 1979 and 2003, the earnings of men with a few years of college but no degree barely kept up with inflation, while those for women rose by 20 percent in real terms. For high school graduates with no college experience, men's earnings declined 8 percent over the period, while women's advanced 12 percent.
 ''In the past guys could drop out of school after finishing high school, or even without finishing, and go into a factory and get a steady job with benefits,'' said Valerie K. Oppenheimer, professor emeritus of sociology at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''But there has been a deterioration in young men's economic position, and women are hesitant to marry a man who is likely to be an economic dependent.''
 Not all men have adjusted to the new dynamics of marriage and work, as women have gained greater clout and become more vocal about what they want from their mates. By 2001, wives earned more than husbands in almost one of four marriages in which both partners worked, compared with 16 percent in 1980.
 ''Changing women's expectations about what married life should be like has put more tension into these relationships,'' Mr. Jencks said. ''Men who have graduated from college have been more responsive and ready to accommodate those changes than those who haven't.''
 Though many unmarried men and women do end up living together, cohabitation is a less stable arrangement. There is a 43 percent chance that a couple living together will split up within three years, compared with a 12 percent chance for a breakup of a first marriage in that time. ''It's more like a stopgap,'' said Andrew J. Cherlin, a professor of sociology at Johns Hopkins University.
 In 2005 there were nearly 5 million households of unmarried partners of the opposite sex, according to census estimates, up from 1.6 million in 1980. In 2004, 36 percent of babies were born to unmarried women.
 As a response to some of these trends, many women with limited education have turned theirs sights on ''marrying up,'' choosing men who may be older, more established and more educated. 
 ''Why would you want to be in a stable relationship with somebody who is unstable?'' asked Ketny Jean-Francois, a never-married 30-something from the Bronx who has supported her 3-year-old son on her unemployment check and food stamps since leaving her job as a security guard a year ago. ''It's a myth that all women want to marry.'' 
 Ms. Rudolph has sworn off blue-collar men. For a man to be marriage material, ''you have to have a job; you have to be educated; you have your own apartment and a car,'' she said. ''Both have to contribute something.''
 She speaks from experience. She married her high school boyfriend right after graduation, a 2-week-old baby in arms. But her husband, who never graduated, was unemployed for most of their marriage, and the couple broke up after six years.
 Determined to find a man who had better prospects, Ms. Rudolph entered a relationship with a basketball player and had three children with him. It ended when she learned he was married to someone else, a revelation that left her badly shaken. ''I don't trust men to marry them,'' she said.
 Tax policy does not encourage poor couples to marry. At the lower end of the income scale, couples with two incomes face higher marginal tax rates if they marry. Couples can also lose federal dollars when marriage increases their household earnings above the threshold for welfare payments. 
 According to C. Eugene Steuerle of the Urban Institute, a single mother of two children who earns $15,000 a year gets an earned income tax credit of $4,100. If she marries a man making $10,000 a year, the benefit drops to $2,100.
 David Popenoe, a sociologist at Rutgers and a co-director of its National Marriage Project, argues that it is the men who are choosing to remain single. He says men do not marry because they do not want to. As unwilling to commit as ever, men have been let off the hook by more permissive social mores that have made it acceptable to live together and raise children out of wedlock. 
 Joe Callender, 47, a retired New York City corrections officer and a father of four, has had long-term relationships with two women but has never married. One obstacle, he admits, has been his own infidelity. 
 ''Marriage, that's sacred to me; I'm committed to you for the rest of my life, my last breath,'' Mr. Callender said, describing his vision of the institution. ''I'm not cheating, looking. Work, home, that's it. It's you and me against the world.''

Fears of Divorce
 Relaxed mores have also encouraged more gay men to live openly homosexual lives. ''I think this could be a minor factor but not a major one'' in the decline of marriage, Professor Cherlin said. But it would not explain the gap between the educated and the less so. The percentage of college-educated men who marry has been relatively stable the last few years, while the marriage rate among college-educated women has actually ticked up.
 For some men, living with a girlfriend is an attractive alternative given the possibility of a messy divorce. Many men fear that a former wife will take all their money. For blue-collar men, the divorce rate is twice that of men with college degrees.
 ''From the view of the male, there are pretty big reasons you would not marry,'' Professor Popenoe said. 
 It was his parents' divorce that showed Mr. Enos, the Wisconsin construction foreman, just how bitter a dissolution could be. Mr. Enos, a compact man with a shock of blond hair and a streak of independence who supported himself in high school by working on a pig farm, rarely saw his father after his parents' split. 
 After high school, Mr. Enos joined the Marines. Once his service was complete, he moved back to Kenosha, only to witness another family dispute over his grandfather's estate. Mr. Enos, who earns about $50,000 a year, lives in a small house bought with some money inherited from his grandfather, and keeps his distance from family. 
 He has vowed not to mix personal and legal affairs. He has worked too hard, he said, to lose his house and his savings if a marriage were to fail. ''I told my girlfriend a long time ago: 'Don't pressure me. I don't want to get married and then divorced,' '' Mr. Enos said. 
 The same fear has lurked in Tom Ryan's mind. Mr. Ryan, 54, an electronics specialist who lives outside Denver, bought his ranch house with a girlfriend over a decade ago. He had to buy out his girlfriend quickly when the relationship suddenly ended -- or else lose his home.
 His girlfriend, who had been with him for six years, had wanted to marry and have a child. But Mr. Ryan, who attended music college for a year and spent his 20's singing in a local rock band, did not feel ready.
 He loved her, he recalled one afternoon this summer, but was reluctant to settle down. After a decade of playing concerts (including a tour in Japan, a highlight), he had learned relatively late in life how to budget and save enough to pay a mortgage, a contributing factor.

Comfortable Being Alone
 Mr. Ryan, who grew up without a father, learned how to be alone. A new girlfriend came along, but he was unwilling to let her move in as much as a toothbrush. They broke up. He went to a community college and got an associate's degree in electronics. He renovated the basement. He built a soundproof recording room. He learned to enjoy the silence and the ability to be as fastidious at home as he pleased.
 When he walks in the front door after a weekend trip or a run or a bike ride, he often puts a commemorative baseball cap on his coat rack, and now, about three dozen hats cover the rack, with no apparent space for a purse or a diaper bag.
 ''Later in life, will I miss the fact that I don't have a little son or daughter around?'' Mr. Ryan asked. ''I probably will. But it's not totally out of the question.''
 For every man who fits into one of the categories of unmarried men put forth by social scientists -- men who cannot commit, men who are afraid of divorce, men who have been forced to the edges of the economy -- there is a man like Chris Cunningham of Staten Island. 
 Mr. Cunningham, 41, a sanitation worker, seems to defy any theory about why he is single. He has, he said, simply not met the right woman.
 Born and raised in Brooklyn, and now assigned to an office job in Manhattan with the Department of Sanitation, Mr. Cunningham said he was undeterred by his parents' divorce and was ready for marriage, having just ended a decade-long relationship going nowhere. 
 He makes a comfortable living at about $80,000 a year. He appears self-deprecating and sweet, and is clean-shaven (his head, too). Eager to have children of his own, he bought Christmas presents last year for several children in Milltown, N.J., where he often spends weekends with his best friend and neighboring couples.
 With most of his friends paired off, and few single women in the Milltown clique, his dating life has stalled. ''It's funny,'' he said one Saturday as adults mingled and children scampered with water toys at a block party. ''You feel kind of like they met someone and got their lives started, and you're still waiting for it to happen to you.''
 Some social scientists have found that married men are healthier and earn slightly more than unmarried men. But it is unclear whether marriage produces higher incomes and better health, or whether people who are richer and healthier in the first place more often choose to marry.
 Beyond the questions of finances and health, there is the issue of how content these men are. All the men interviewed for this article looked younger than their age. All said they were happy with their lives, even Mr. Cunningham, with his clear longing for a family of his own, and Mr. Thomas, of Fort Collins, who said he might move to Denver to meet more women.
 Mr. Ryan, too, said he enjoyed being single. He stood talking in his kitchen on a Saturday when he had no plans other than a solo bike ride. It was a slow weekend day -- his birthday, in fact -- and though the phone never rang, he was free for dinner.

The New Gender Divide
 Articles in this series are examining what has happened to men and women several decades after the women's movement began.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A PLACE TO HANG HIS HATS -- Tom Ryan used to share a home outside Denver with a girlfriend but now lives alone, enjoying the ability to keep the house as he pleases. That includes a hat rack covered with dozens of commemorative baseball caps. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
READY FOR MARRIAGE -- Chris Cunningham, who is eager to start a family, often spends time in New Jersey with his best friend and neighborhood children. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 22)
Doug Thomas, 45, has concentrated more on job responsibilities and earnings than on finding a wife. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: ''The Waning of Marriage''The percentage of people who have never been married has risen sharply, especially among the less educated.Percentage of 40- to 44-year-olds who have never been married, by educationGraphs track the percentage of men and women (40 to 44-year-olds) who have never been married, by the following education since 1980:Less than high schoolHigh schoolSome college4+ years of collegeAs more women have gone to college, less-educated men have fewer counterparts to marry.Number of women for every 100 men with the same education, ages 25 to 54LEAST EDUCATEDIn 1980, there were 108 women for every 100 men.Less than high school: 108 womenHigh school: 132 womenSome college: 100 women4+ years of college: 70 womenIn 2004, there were 86.Less than high school: 86 womenHigh school: 94 womenSome college: 117 women4+ years of college: 106 women(Sources by Queens College Department of Sociology
 Census Bureau)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (91%); MARRIAGE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); WOMEN (89%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COHABITATION (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); CENSUS (57%) Marriages; Men; Women; Surveys and Series; Age, Chronological; Marriages

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter; Michelle O'Donnell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



117 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: BAGHDAD'S CHAOS UNDERCUTS TACK PURSUED BY U.S.

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS; Qais Mizher contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
Over the past year, as American commanders pushed Iraqi forces to take over responsibility for this violent capital, Baghdad became a markedly more dangerous place. 
 Now the Americans are being forced to call in more of their own troops to bring the city under control.
The failure of the Iraqis to halt the slide into chaos in Baghdad undercuts the central premise of the American project here: that Iraqi forces can be trained and equipped to secure their own country, allowing the Americans to go home.
 A review of previously unreleased statistics on American and Iraqi patrols suggests that as Americans handed over responsibilities to the Iraqis, violence in Baghdad increased. 
 In mid-June 2005, Americans conducted an average of 360 patrols a day, according to statistics released by the military. By the middle of February this year, the patrols ran about 92 a day -- a drop of more than 70 percent. The first Iraqi brigade took over a small piece of Baghdad early last year. Now, Iraqi soldiers or police officers take the leading role in securing more than 70 percent of the city, including its most violent neighborhoods. They control all of Baghdad's 6,000 checkpoints. 
 Even after the attack on the Askariya shrine in Samarra on Feb. 22 unleashed a wave of sectarian violence, the American patrols remained at a level lower than in the past. At the end of July, Americans were patrolling Baghdad 89 times a day -- a quarter of their patrols in mid-June last year. 
 Thirteen months ago, Baghdad had about 19 daily violent events, like killings. Today, the daily average is 25 -- an increase of more than 30 percent. Many of these attacks cause more than one death; some cause many more, like the rampage by Shiite gunmen in western Baghdad last month that left as many as 40 people dead. 
 On Thursday in Washington, senior American military commanders pointedly warned that Iraq was heading toward civil war.
 To stop the slide, the United States has decided to double the number of American troops in the city, to about 14,200 from about 7,200.
 American officials have declared Baghdad the country's ''center of gravity,'' an arena that must be won if they are to succeed. The Americans and Iraqis say they are also preparing to bring in more Iraqi troops and spend at least $50 million for jobs and public services like electricity.
 The decision to increase the number of American forces in the city appears to reflect a conviction that only American troops can bring the city under control.
 ''If we were willing to accept the high levels of casualties that occur in the city each month, then the Iraqi security forces could have continued handling the situation,'' said Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell IV, the spokesman for the American military in Iraq. ''We can handle it at the levels we have. But if we want to reduce the violence, then we bring more forces into the city.''
 American commanders say the greater violence in Baghdad does not necessarily suggest that the Iraqi forces are failing. Iraqi police officers and army soldiers are competent, the Americans say, but the explosion of sectarian violence has been of a scope and virulence that could overwhelm any army.
 ''I don't think we moved too quickly,'' General Caldwell said of putting the Iraqis in charge of Baghdad. ''I don't think anyone could have anticipated the sectarian violence.''
 Some independent observers say the Americans have a point -- that the job of trying to secure a city of seven million people plagued by terrorism, sectarian violence and crime is a task of a magnitude that has never been attempted by a modern army. Some wonder whether the additional 7,000 American troops bound for the city will be enough.
 ''I don't believe this operation was designed to turn a corner,'' said Anthony H. Cordesman, a military analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''I believe it was designed to stop a civil war.''
 Putting Iraqi forces in the lead in various parts of the city, American commanders say, frees American troops to support the Iraqis in the most violent neighborhoods.
 The number of Iraqi troops and police officers has steadily grown since the beginning of 2005. About 42,000 Iraqi police, army and paramilitary forces now patrol the capital.
 In addition to 7,200 American forces, more than 1,000 American advisers are spread throughout the Iraqi police and army.
 Still, since March, when the Americans and Iraqis began the first of two major operations to bring Baghdad under control, violence there has increased.
 The United Nations said an average of 100 Iraqi civilians were being killed each day in Iraq, ''the overwhelming majority'' of them in Baghdad.
 On the streets, the tallies are borne out in flesh and blood. Each day, the bodies pile up at Baghdad's main morgue: burned with acid, riddled with bullets, blindfolded, handcuffed, drilled with holes.
 For much of the city, the Tigris River forms the sectarian boundary, the Sunnis on the west and the Shiites in the east. Many Baghdad residents will no longer stray from their own neighborhoods. Shops in most neighborhoods close by 2 p.m., if they open at all. Gun-toting militiamen from the Mahdi Army roam the streets unmolested.
 Gauging the performance of the Iraqi security forces is difficult. Every night, the American military sends e-mail messages announcing that Iraqis have raided insurgent hide-outs, detained suspects or thwarted suicide bombers.
 ''I tell you this personally,'' said Brig. Gen. David D. Halverson, the deputy commander of the American division that oversees the capital, ''the Iraqi forces have stood up and fought very well.''
 Indeed, in some places, Iraqi troops have shown promise. On Haifa Street, where the first Iraqi brigade took over last year, the troops brought stability to the neighborhood in a way that American soldiers had failed to do by themselves. 
 Over all, though, their performance seems spotty. The Iraqi Army seems more disciplined and professional than the police, and seems to receive more respect from the Iraqi people.
 The Iraqi police officers, who far outnumber Iraqi soldiers, seem mostly hapless, often standing by as mayhem swirls around them.
 One day late last month, for instance, a group of 10 armed men stopped traffic in the Tarbiya neighborhood of Sadr City and stormed a streetside shop.
 As the scene unfolded, two police vehicles drove by, with a clear view of the kidnapping under way. They did nothing. Minutes later, the armed men led an Iraqi shopkeeper to one of their cars and took him away.
 Neither the Sunni insurgents nor the Iranian-backed Shiite militias seem to fear Iraqi police officers or soldiers.
 In the Baghdad neighborhoods of Dawra and Amariya, for instance, Iraqi soldiers and policemen are often unable to retrieve the bodies of civilians or their own men killed in gun battles because they fear they will be attacked. The Americans often have to retrieve the bodies; the insurgents leave them alone.
 The mixed quality of the Iraqi security forces lies at the heart of the capital's chaos, some Iraqi leaders say.
 ''We have to have the courage to admit that there are structural problems in the way the security forces were recruited,'' said Barham Salih, the deputy prime minister. ''There has not been enough attention paid to quality, nor to leadership. Command and control remains a problem.''
 Many of the militiamen now terrorizing the capital are directed by the very political parties that control the Iraqi government, he said.
 ''It's an open secret that needs to be confronted head-on,'' Mr. Salih said. ''The status quo is profitable to too many in the political elite of this country.''
 American commanders say they are planning to embark on a plan to secure one neighborhood at a time. They say they are optimistic about it, in part, because it does not rely exclusively on military force. Iraqi and American leaders are preparing to spend $50 million to put Iraqis to work and restore basic services like electricity and water that are absent from much of Baghdad.
 The new plan is the brainchild of Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, the deputy commander of American forces in Iraq, who has long argued that the political and economic components of defeating an insurgency are as important as lethal force.
 ''We are pulling out Coach Chiarelli's playbook, and we are finally going to implement it,'' General Caldwell said.
 The Americans and the Iraqis say they hope to see results within 90 days.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Although the United States has pushed Iraqis to assume responsibility for Baghdad, more American troops are now being called in to control the city, where they will face roadside bombings and other security threats. (Photo by Ali Abbas/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. 4)Chart: ''Securing the Capital''The American military has handed over most of the responsibility of patrolling Baghdad to Iraqi forces.AVERAGE NUMBER OF DAILY PATROLSGraph tracks average number of daily American Patrols, Iraqi Patrols, And Joint Patrols for the following dates:June 14-20, 2005Feb. 10-16, 2006July 21-27, 2006(Source by U.S. Military)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); STATISTICS (75%); TERRORISM (69%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

PERSON: Dexter Filkins

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



118 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Theater District Will Get Taller, If Not Richer 

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The hottest thing on Broadway these days may be the air above some of its most famous theaters.
 During the city's real estate boom, theater owners have started capitalizing on a special zoning arrangement created eight years ago that lets them sell their unused rights to add to their buildings' height. Developers can transfer these air rights to other sites in the theater district and construct taller buildings than would otherwise be allowed.
Two pending transfers of air rights promise an added benefit that was crucial to the original approval of that arrangement: As much as $1.4 million is supposed to be set aside to help the theater community, by attracting new patrons or underwriting serious drama. 
 But there's a snag. Though two developers -- who are buying the air rights for more than $20 million -- are ready to hand over the special payments, the city government is not prepared to accept them. It never created the fund to hold the money or the council that is supposed to oversee it. As a result, it is not clear if the theater community will ever directly benefit from the windfall. 
 Others, meanwhile, are maneuvering to get the money. The Board of Education has raised its hand for the first payments from developers, most of which it would use to improve auditoriums in public schools, city officials said.
 Jack Goldstein, who was working for Actors' Equity Association, a union of actors and stagehands, in 1998, when the arrangement was set up, said diverting the money to schools would violate pledges made to bolster what was then a fragile theater economy. 
 ''There was a promise that was made to the theater community and the public, and I think it should be kept, and I think it can be,'' Mr. Goldstein said.
 Neighborhood leaders in the vicinity of the theater district are also wary that the money may be sent elsewhere. 
 ''Our community has a big proportion of working actors, so we want this to go to people who actually work in and support the theater,'' said J. Lee Compton, the chairman of Manhattan Community Board 4, whose territory includes one of the theaters that is selling its unused development rights. 
 The long-running debate about how to spend this potential stream of revenue from developers illustrates how much the theater business and the New York City real estate market have changed since the late 1990's.
 Back then, theater owners and Broadway luminaries, including Stephen Sondheim and Tony Randall, campaigned for financial aid for an ailing industry. They feared that empty theaters and a paucity of new plays signaled worsening prospects for high-quality drama.
 The city's response was to change zoning rules in 1998, allowing the owners of 25 Broadway houses to transfer their air rights anywhere within a 34-block zone north of 40th Street between Avenue of the Americas and Eighth Avenue. (Normally, air rights can be transferred only to contiguous building sites.)
 To transfer development rights from a theater to a distant site, the buyers were required to pay an extra $10 per square foot on top of the regular purchase price for the air rights. The money was to be administered by a new Theater Subdistrict Council, with 20 percent to be set aside for monitoring the physical condition of the theaters. The rest was to be used to benefit the theater community by subsidizing tickets to shows for poorer city residents or by offering loans or grants to producers of serious plays.
 But until this year, no theater owner had taken advantage of the air-rights provision. In the past eight years, attendance has rebounded as the public appetite has grown for serious shows like ''Doubt'' and ''The History Boys.'' The Broadway Initiative, a theater-advocacy group Mr. Sondheim presided over, disbanded and the movement to find alternative sources of financing for plays faded out. 
 At the same time, demand increased for places to build apartment buildings close to Times Square. Few lots in the theater district can accommodate big buildings without a transfer of air rights. So, lately, developers have been knocking on the doors of the theater owners.
 At the northeast corner of 46th Street and Eighth Avenue, a New Jersey-based builder, S.J.P. Residential, plans to erect a 42-story condominium tower on the former site of McHale's pub. To do that, S.J.P. arranged to acquire about 140,000 square feet of air rights from two Broadway theaters, the Brooks Atkinson around the corner and the Al Hirschfeld, which is more than a block away.
 The deal with the Brooks Atkinson, which is owned by the Nederlander Organization, did not fall under the special zoning rules created in 1998, but the pending purchase of the Hirschfeld's air rights does. This week, the City Planning Commission is scheduled to vote to authorize the second of two transfers of air rights from the Hirschfeld, which is owned by Jujamcyn Theaters, to the McHale's site.
 If approved by the Planning Commission and then the City Council, the sales of the Hirschfeld's air rights would yield about $580,000 for the Theater Subdistrict Fund. A third piece of the Hirschfeld's air rights, along with a larger bundle of air rights from another Jujamcyn theater, the St. James, are being acquired by the developer of a site on 54th Street between Broadway and Eighth Avenue. Combined, the transactions would produce about $1.4 million for the theater fund. 
 ''This is a unique transaction,'' said Paul Libin, producing director of Jujamcyn. ''They could have come and knocked on our door earlier, but there was no reason for them to do it.'' But now, he added, ''There's a boom going on in New York, and I suppose that's why people knocked on our door.''
 After these sales, whose terms Mr. Libin declined to disclose, Jujamcyn would have no significant development rights left to sell, he said. The air rights for the company's other theaters were sold before the 1998 zoning change took effect, he said.
 ''Selling the air rights is all about perpetuating the Broadway theater,'' Mr. Libin said. 
 But, he added, ''circumstances have changed so dramatically'' that using money from developers to finance productions now ''doesn't make any sense at all.'' 
 Alan Eisenberg, the executive director of Actors' Equity, noted that the original promise made in 1998 could still be met by giving the developers' payments to the Theater Development Fund, which sells discounted play tickets to attract a broader audience. 
 The City Planning Department's staff, however, favors giving most of the money expected from the special transfers -- more than $1.1 million -- to two programs run by the city's Board of Education, said Edith Hsu-Chen, deputy director in the department's Manhattan office. One, known as Arts Space, makes grants to public schools to upgrade their performance facilities. Another aims to stage summer musical productions starring public high school students. 
 ''One of the key purposes of the theater subdistrict zoning is to develop new audiences,'' Ms. Hsu-Chen said. ''What better way to accomplish this than to link kids directly to Broadway as active participants?''
 The school programs are pet projects of Gerald Schoenfeld, chairman of the Shubert Organization, which owns or operates 17 Broadway theaters. 
 Still, Meile Rockefeller, co-chairwoman of the land-use committee of Manhattan Community Board 5, said the schools proposals were ''fine as a short-term remedy for a problem that caught the city unprepared.'' But, she added, ''It's not a long-term solution.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Air for Sale''Some theaters can sell air rights anywhere within a 34-block district if the buyers pay into a special fund. Two theaters have pending deals under this program.Map of Manhattan shows theaters with available air rights and the area within which air rights can be transferred.(pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ZONING (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); APPROVALS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%) Theater; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Zoning; Air Rights; Theaters (Buildings); Theater

ORGANIZATION: ACTORS' EQUITY ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



119 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3617 words

HEADLINE: The Fork In The Road 

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
IN the spring of 2000, Elizabeth Stoeber, an ambitious 32-year-old investment banker at Morgan Stanley, flew to California to visit a client in the throes of a multibillion-dollar stock deal. The technology boom was under way, and Ms. Stoeber was on a roll; she was working on a high-profile deal in a profession she adored. With her in first class was her 9-month-old son; in coach sat her German nanny.
 By Ms. Stoeber's account, it was an ideal time. During the day, she visited investors; at night, she used a company car to cruise around Beverly Hills with her son. ''I thought I was making it work,'' Ms. Stoeber, now 39, recalls. She had a successful career in the cutthroat, male-dominated world of banking, a happy family, a good marriage and a supportive boss.
Within a year, things had fallen out of balance. Resenting handing her son's childhood over to nannies, she accepted a job as chief operating officer within Morgan Stanley's media banking group, an administrative post that allowed her to work part time. That plan fizzled. ''Off'' days ended up as afternoons in the park doing business on her cellphone while her son begged her to play. 
 When the tech bubble burst in 2000, Morgan Stanley cut her job. To stay, she would have had to reconsider full-time work. Yet three days a week was already a struggle. In 2001, Ms. Stoeber left Wall Street. Since then, she has started a consulting firm and now works for a boutique investment bank. 
 ''I was absolutely determined to stay professionally attractive,'' she said.
 Now she wants to rejoin banking's major leagues. And her timing should be perfect: Wall Street says it is looking at women like Ms. Stoeber with new interest, hoping to rehire those who left for personal reasons while continuing to woo new female recruits.
 But getting back on track on Wall Street has proven more difficult than Ms. Stoeber, or the banks seeking her services, might have imagined. Although banks are doing much more than paying lip service to the notion of retaining women or enticing them back to work, executives say long-term success means fundamentally changing the way Wall Street works. Gordon Gekko, Hollywood's idea of a swashbuckling, suspenders-clad banker, did not telecommute. Women remain the minority sex on the Street and many young recruits say they have grown more circumspect about a career there.
 The Street says it wants to change all of this, not simply because it is socially expedient but because the financial world needs a diverse work force to make money and court clients -- especially when clients themselves are not homogeneous.
 ''You can't build a great company without great people, and great people are not just white, straight men aged 25 to 40,'' said Joe Gregory, president of Lehman Brothers. According to a study by Columbia University's Center for Work-Life Balance, white males represent just 17 percent of the global talent pool of individuals with graduate education. 
 WOMEN'S aversion to intersecting with Wall Street appears to be mounting: Generation Y, also dubbed the ''Millennials,'' say they value balance more than financial security, suggesting fewer will gravitate to the cutthroat environs of the Street. Bank executives say fewer female M.B.A.'s are choosing careers on the Street, and the banks also say they have had limited success stanching the flow of women who leave midcareer. Of course, not all women leave to raise a family. Some elect to care for parents who are aging or ill; others seek alternative careers with more manageable hours. 
 According to interviews conducted by Universum, a company that helps employers brand themselves to attract employees more effectively, current female undergraduate and graduate students at top universities express hope that Wall Street will be both a manageable place to work and a melting pot. But those two characteristics do not describe the reality behind the largely 24/7, white male environs of the world's financial capital. 
 ''It's not looking that great for the investment banks if you think that the new generation is interested in social responsibility, high ethical standards and work-life balance,'' said Claudia Tattanelli, head of Universum's American and Asian-Pacific operations. ''In the past, it was competitive compensation, a good career reference -- prestige and financial strength. Work-life balance was No. 3 or 4.''
 Investment banks and brokerage firms typically lose women when they are in their 30's, executives say. Expected to ramp up to reach coveted managing director jobs, many women feel that midlevel jobs offer them little while demanding a lot. Pulled to have children and pushed by a less-than-rewarding workplace and often uninspired midlevel management, they leave.
 ''Midrange associates and vice presidents, that's often the area of danger for most firms,'' said Alice Wang, a managing director at J. P. Morgan who has had flextime and telecommuted for 10 of her 22 years at the bank. ''People feel they aren't getting visibility fast enough. I'd be lying if I said it didn't happen. It happens.''
 All of this has accompanied a subtle but crucial sea change for women throughout the business world. Twenty years ago, the gender debate centered on breaking the so-called glass ceiling that kept women out of executive suites, gaining equal access to the workplace and securing equal pay for equal work. Today, concerns more often revolve around reshaping the very architecture of Wall Street work in order to keep women involved, including compensating managers for achieving diversity goals and reaching out to female employees with families.
 Banks say they realize that women's needs are often distinct from those of their male counterparts and they are grappling with responses. Even some of Wall Street's most hard-driving bosses have made gestures toward the value of equilibrium. Speaking to Harvard Business School's graduating class this spring, Henry M. Paulson Jr., then the chief executive of Goldman Sachs and now the Treasury secretary, asserted that work-life balance should be an important element in every individual's life.
 For their part, female financiers have become more aggressive about demanding fulfilling careers and family lives, and they say they are willing to walk away from firms that fail to meet those needs.
 ''The first generation was about access of opportunity,'' said Sylvia Anne Hewlett, president of the Center for Work-Life Balance. ''It worked. It got us there. Now we have to learn not to lose the talent at 35.'' 
 In March 2005, Ms. Hewlett co-wrote a Harvard Business Review article summarizing the findings of a private sector task force, ''The Hidden Brain Drain: Women and Minorities as Unrealized Assets.'' The task force, which Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers sponsored, surveyed 2,443 ''highly qualified'' women -- with high-honors undergraduate, graduate or professional degrees -- about their work patterns; among the women in the survey with children, 43 percent reported that they had left work voluntarily at some point in their careers. Of those, 93 percent wanted to return; 74 percent managed to do so, though only 40 percent of that group did so full time. Only 5 percent of women looking to return to work wanted to return to the places they had left. For those returning to business jobs, however, that figure was zero.
 Wall Street has a treacherous history when it comes to recruiting, managing and retaining women. Harassment lawsuits like those involving Smith Barney's infamous boom-boom room of the 1990's to more recent judgments against Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch have revealed flagrantly discriminatory behavior and compensation practices untethered from the notion of equal pay for equal work.
 For this story, Wall Street banks were initially hesitant to reveal any data related to their recruitment and retention of women. Nine banks did so after The New York Times agreed to aggregate the data and not break it out on a firm-by-firm basis. In part, they said, their reluctance to release such data was caused by potential litigation risks related to sexual discrimination.
 On average, women represent 33 percent of top banks' analyst class, those who have just graduated from college, according to data provided to The New York Times. They represent only 25 percent of incoming full-time associates (those who have M.B.A.'s). Women constitute just 14 percent of managing directors, the top executive tier at most banks. ''You leave a lot of money on the table with what might have happened if you could have attracted the talent you wanted,'' said Steven D. Black, co-head of J. P. Morgan's investment bank.
 To be sure, the Street's overtures to women wanting back in the game have become more sophisticated in recent years. In November of 2005, Lehman ran ''Encore,'' a seminar geared toward helping women return to the Street, educating them about what they had missed, assisting them in overhauling their resumes and reacquainting them with top management. In the spring, Lehman replicated the program in London, and another is being contemplated for Asia.
 Goldman Sachs ran a similar program in May and its popularity inspired another event for this fall. Citigroup will sponsor an 11-day executive education course at Dartmouth College's Tuck School of Business this fall to encourage women to revisit the Street. 
 ''The work force of tomorrow is at home,'' said Patricia David, global head of diversity and talent management at Citigroup's investment banking unit. ''They are not old or retired. They are in their 40's and 50's.'' 
 And like Ms. Stoeber, some of them want to return to the Street.
 MS. Stoeber said she had reason to feel encouraged. She was stunned earlier this year when she saw students from the Harvard Business School's class of 2006 expressing the importance of managing a career and a family to a room full of people at the school's Dynamic Women in Business conference. ''We never would have had this panel in business school,'' said Ms. Stoeber. ''For us, it was all about how to compete with the boys.'' 
 Compete she did. Sitting in her comfortable home in South Orange, N.J., Ms. Stoeber, blonde and blue-eyed, reminisces about investment banking with all the elan and nostalgia of an athlete recalling Olympic victories. She proudly trots out two awards bankers win for successful deals and displays them on her coffee table as she explains her days on the Street.
 She discovered banking while attending the University of Michigan, when she worked as a summer intern at Hilliard Farber & Company, a small Wall Street brokerage house.
 ''It was very 'Liar's Poker,' cheeseburgers at 10 a.m.,'' she recalls, referring to Michael Lewis's best-selling book about the rough-and-tumble world of Wall Street traders. She also studied for a year during college in Freiburg, where she learned German and met her future husband. 
 Ms. Stoeber's German skills came in handy after she graduated from New York University's Leonard N. Stern School of Business in 1994. Wall Street was barely hiring at the time, but Goldman Sachs needed German speakers and gave her a job in London pitching business to newly privatized German companies. The next two years were a whirlwind of European cities and all-nighters at the office. Aside from breakfast every Sunday morning in London -- a weekly date with her husband -- she was mostly on the job or out of the country. She adored it.
 ''I loved my job, being around these incredibly intelligent people, the incredible level of responsibility. It was a real privilege,'' she recalls. ''It was all-encompassing.''
 After returning to the United States in 1996, she continued to work on international deals and found herself traveling even more -- though there were no other women at her level in her division. And after seven years of marriage, she and her husband were contemplating having children.
 ''I had this little voice that kept saying, 'If you don't have children, you will always regret it,' '' she said. ''I worked for the most incredible firms and with some of the best minds in finance, but the voice was getting louder.''
 A headhunter invited her to interview at Morgan Stanley for an investment-banking job. She liked the team and could travel less while working on big deals. She took the job. Five months later, she was pregnant, which she said delighted her colleagues.
 ''It was such an exciting time in the markets and everyone was excited for me,'' she said. ''I felt I became a real person in the senior bankers' eyes, a more substantial person. I wasn't part of the sea of single people marching through.'' 
 Ms. Stoeber traveled throughout her pregnancy, including a trip to Germany in her final trimester when her ankles were so swollen she had to waddle to the baggage claim. It never crossed her mind to stop working.
 But then her children grew older, she became uncomfortably reliant on her nannies, and her priorities shifted. Today, Ms. Stoeber hopes that banks are serious about recruiting women like her. 
 But, for all of Wall Street's best intentions when it comes to recruiting women, the structure of the business often appears to drive the sexual diversity of its work force. While many women look to flexible schedules and part-time work to overcome Wall Street's grind, those ideas do not often meld well with around-the-clock client service.
 ''This is new and cutting edge. We are not there yet,'' said Melinda Wolfe, managing director of the office of global leadership and diversity at Goldman Sachs. ''It's hard to be in a client-service industry where you are on call to clients. We don't have a good paradigm as to how we can repackage that work.''
 Even among the new recruitment programs aimed at women, the numbers are anemic: Goldman has hired four women through the recruitment effort it began in May, while Lehman has hired 15 since starting its program last fall.
 Drive by any bank at midnight and many floors are still brightly lit. Take an elevator upstairs, and many offices are still filled.
 ''Has the Street changed?'' asked Janet Hanson, a former Goldman Sachs banker who founded 85 Broads, a network devoted to professional women. ''No, it's a brutal business. It's fun, but you are working weekends and until 2 a.m., and a lot of men and a lot of women, without any bitterness, are saying, 'No thanks.' ''
 While wooing women back to the Street is daunting, the pipeline of new female talent also appears to be stagnating. At almost half of the nation's top business schools, fewer women will make up the class of 2007 than that of 2003, according to the schools' data. Columbia Business School, a top feeder to Wall Street, has seen its class size grow 5.5 percent from 2003 to 2007; women represented 36 percent of the class of 2003 but 34 percent of the class of 2007. According to Universum, 13 percent of 881 first- or second-year women at top-tier M.B.A. programs chose Wall Street as a preferred industry in 2002: by 2006, that figure had fallen to 6.9 percent (and that from a larger sample size of 1,603 women). 
 Among the reasons? Generation Y cares less about money if it comes at too high a price, says Universum, throwing a wrench into Wall Street's past assurance that it could demand cultlike devotion from employees in return for fatter paychecks than any other profession. ''The days of the psycho-workaholic with no work-life balance are numbered,'' said Lehman's Mr. Gregory. ''It's just not a recipe for success.''
 To draw more women, Lehman has a bonus pool that rewards ''inclusion'' in its recruiting efforts and it has invested heavily in technology to enable trading from home. Goldman and Lehman say ''on-ramping'' -- helping veterans return to the work force -- will become an important part of their recruiting strategies. J. P. Morgan has built smaller networks of professionals around specific functions, including trading. The bank is considering running simulated trading runs for female summer interns with the thought that women might display raw talent more comfortably without men around.
 ''The real difference between today and 5 or 10 years ago is that now everyone recognizes that there is a true business case for having a diverse work force,'' Ms. Wang from J. P. Morgan said. ''You don't have to justify that diversity is good. We've all concluded we want the top talent, however it comes.''
 FOR Wall Street, new recruits rarely get any more promising than Lucia Bonilla. 
 Ms. Bonilla is a 22-year-old, 5-foot-tall Princeton graduate with a degree in operations research and financial engineering. In addition to core classes focused on statistics and engineering, she studied financial modeling and optimization, a subject many well-educated graduates might be challenged to define. 
 ''I have always been into numbers, I guess,'' said Ms. Bonilla, who was born in Panama but raised in Westchester. Her achievements would humble many: 790 out of 800 on her math SAT, president of the math team in high school and president of the New York State Science Honor Society. Her hobbies include tae kwon do -- she holds a first-degree black belt -- cheerleading and community service (which she does in Latin America).
 This fall, Ms. Bonilla will start a job on the sales and trading desk at UBS, the Swiss investment bank. One of her main reasons for picking UBS may seem surprising: ''I saw pregnant women on the trading floor, three or four of them,'' she said. She also knew a female managing director at UBS who had five sons under 12. ''Not all women want to have children, but in the future I may want to and it was reassuring to walk around the floor and see that it was possible.''
 Banks have an interest in making sure that women like Ms. Bonilla keep seeing the possibilities because they tend to lose valuable employees like her when they reach their 30's.
 ''It's hard to work for four years, go to business school, spend three years slaving away in an investment bank or consulting firm and then try to leave to start a family,'' said Thomas Caleel, director of admissions and financial aid at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. ''They haven't achieved the seniority they need at that point.'' 
 To try to counter this trend, Wharton and other business schools are focused on recruiting younger women. Wharton's incoming class this fall will have twice as many students with zero to four years of work experience as it did last year, partially because of more applications from that demographic but also in an attempt to get women into business sooner.
 But even if younger women sign on, and women who have opted for more family time come back, Wall Street will still have to grapple with the long hours and the lack of flexibility that a career there demands. They will also have to confront the fact that real-world information on the Internet tends to undermine the banks' recruitment efforts.
 ''They come in and say, 'You can run at lunchtime and leave when you want,' '' said Ms. Hanson of 85 Broads. ''These kids read blogs. They read Vault.com. They know what really happens.''
 There is certainly a percentage of women on the Street who are not seeking changes -- they shun special-interest groups or networking efforts designed around women, and they scoff at the idea of unique needs. But bank executives say those women are in the minority on Wall Street.
 ''If companies want to retain their best people, doing things the old way won't work because they won't meet everyone's needs,'' said Citigroup's Ms. David. 
 Women are not the only ones seeking balance, either. Students and executives say that men -- the bedrock of the Street's work force --are also increasingly shunning 80-hour workweeks, even if they love and are devoted to banking careers. 
 IT remains to be seen if the banks will succeed in finding ways to integrate women like Ms. Stoeber, whose enthusiasm and patience derive from her uniquely positive experience on the Street. For the armies of women who faced discrimination, overt or discreet, Wall Street has already lost the battle.
 Finding a place for even Ms. Stoeber has proved challenging. She and one of her partners at Tobin Advisors, the North Carolina investment banking boutique where she now works, have proposed an arrangement to a number of banks that reflects the kind of flexibility that banks say they embrace: she and her partner will share a full-time job at a bank and then split their responsibilities.
 So far, no banks have accepted her proposal. ''Firms say they love it, but it's hard for them to say, 'We'll do it,' '' she said. ''They say, 'We have a full-time job.' ''
 Many banks have arrangements similar to the one Ms. Stoeber is proposing, but they grant them to senior female executives -- usually managing directors -- who have the tenure, clients and revenue to justify special treatment. And Ms. Stoeber is aware that she is not in that category.
 Early one recent afternoon in South Orange, Ms. Stoeber's nanny returned home with her son, who eagerly showed off his Lex Luthor cards. She gave him a hug and checked to see if he had remembered to bring his backpack home from camp.
 When he left, she continued to talk about her choices in life. She savored details about her two kids, the rewards of banking, and the split personality she sometimes feels working part time as she shifts from the sandbox to the boardroom. She said she was happy with her priorities. 
 ''The travel, the places I've been, the people I've worked with -- I wouldn't trade it for anything,'' she said. ''The only question is whether I can have it again.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Elizabeth Stoeber of South Orange, N.J., left Wall Street in 2001 but now wants to return. With her are her sons, Karsten, 7, and Johannes, 2. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 7)
 Lucia Bonilla, 22, has accepted a job at UBS. One of the reasons she chose UBS was her feeling that it treated women with children fairly. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''A Matter of Degrees''Five out of 12 major business schools had a slight decrease in the female enrollment in the class of 2007 compared with the class of 2003.Graph tracks business school enrollment of women for class of '07, '05 and '03.Decreases from '03StanfordNorthwesternN.Y.U.CornellColumbiaIncreases from '03DartmouthHarvardM.I.T.Univ. of ChicagoUniv. of MichiganUniv. of Penn.Yale(Sources by the universities)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); BONDS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); MEN (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); TELECOMMUTING (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Women; Hiring and Promotion; Families and Family Life; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan Stanley

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Stoeber; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



120 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: The Queens Blackout: Lessons Learned

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Missing from ''Let's Keep the Lights On: Some Expert Advice for Con Ed'' (Op-Ed, July 30) is a need for clear, open and honest communication in times of crisis -- as Con Ed's inadequate response to the nine-day blackout in Queens showed. 
 When 10 of the 22 feeder cables had gone down in the Long Island City network -- which was designed to absorb the load of only two downed feeder cables -- Con Ed simply urged the public to conserve, rather than giving people information they could use to protect and provide for themselves and their families.
Information breeds security: the public had the right to know, and Con Ed had the obligation to tell us. 

Eric Gioia
Member, City Council
Woodside, Queens

To the Editor:
 George C. Loehr seized on the blackout in Queens to argue that industry restructuring is to blame, and that electric system reliability provisions Congress enacted last year ''will do nothing'' (''Physics Trumps Economics,'' Op-Ed, July 30). 
 Electric system underinvestment is a longstanding problem that clearly predates New York's move to restructure the state's electricity sector. New York enacted those changes because, under the old system, regulatory decisions imposed high costs on consumers. 
 Mr. Loehr argues that new reliability provisions will change nothing because ''standards have been mandatory in North America'' for years. The August 2003 blackout starkly illustrated the need for mandatory and enforceable standards. 
 The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission is now establishing -- for the first time -- mandatory power grid reliability standards, which will be enforced by the agency's new civil penalty authority of up to $1 million per day per violation.

Bryan Lee
Washington

The writer is director of media relations, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (87%); ENERGY REGULATION (87%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (87%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (72%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CITIES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Electric Light and Power; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Consolidated Edison Inc

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: Eric (Councilman) Gioia; Bryan Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) New York City; Queens (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



121 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: No Turning Back 

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine and state legislators have encouraged New Jerseyans to believe that a solution to the state's heavy property tax burden could be at hand. They have also led people to believe that they fully understand that any such solution will require sweeping changes in state and local government, and that this is a political risk they are willing to accept. 
 From municipal consolidation to pension reform to education funding, nearly everything is on the table as members of four special legislative committees begin their mid-summer deliberations. New Jersey's voters, unaccustomed to this flurry of government activity at the height of the Shore season, will be watching with the most intense sort of interest -- self interest.
 Based on their own rhetoric and promises, the Governor and the lawmakers really have no choice except to deliver meaningful reforms, even if some of those reforms put voters in a foul mood going into next year's legislative elections. The issue at hand is nothing less than the state's fiscal stability, now and in the future; Mr. Corzine and the legislative leaders have pledged to take that issue head-on. 
 Raising expectations in this way is a bold and counter-intuitive strategy because it does not leave a great deal of room for failure, especially with an electorate that has so often been disappointed in the past. If the brave talk of summer leads to a series of tepid proposals that only nibble around the edges of reform, voters may conclude that drastic changes are required in the Legislature -- a chilling thought for incumbents going into an election year.
 So it speaks to a certain kind of courage that legislators have promised to be serious about tackling issues like regionalizing cherished local services and changing school funding formulas. In the past, these and other issues have been studied, debated, and left to die of neglect in the name of political expediency. Today's financial crisis is the result of yesterday's delaying actions.
 Solving the property tax issue will require more than finding the money to issue larger rebate checks. It will require legislators to understand that the old ways are dead, and it is their job to dissect the remains in hopes of finding the clues that will lead them to a cure. If they are serious about this examination, they will find arteries clogged by the effects of wasteful and inefficient spending, and political muscle left to atrophy by candidates who preferred solutions that required no heavy lifting.
 If they cannot or will not find a cure for what ails New Jersey, voters may discover one of their own. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); POLITICS (76%); EDUCATION REFORM (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Law and Legislation; Editorials; Politics and Government; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



122 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: To Do This Fall: Fix the Property Tax Problem

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
ON July 28, Gov. Jon S. Corzine exhorted the Legislature to ignore the state's ''sacred cows, third rails, 800-pound gorillas'' and attack the state's high property taxes. The next working day, last Monday, legislative leaders announced that 16 Democrats and 8 Republicans, or one-fifth of the Legislature's 120 members, would sit on four committees that are expected to come up with property tax reform bills by mid-November. 
 It all sounds laudable. But does anyone truly expect that these 24 legislators can do in three months what previous generations of legislators have failed to do in decades?
That, at least, is what many fiscal experts and other political analysts are asking. And while they certainly do not want to jinx the legislators, or Governor Corzine, the cold reality is that New Jersey's problems have been intractable for good reason.
 ''When you get to this hot-button issue of property taxes, almost every interest group that you can think of has something to lose and nothing to gain, and that is a political reality,'' said William G. Dressel Jr., executive director of the New Jersey State League of Municipalities.
 Mr. Dressel's group, of course, is one of those groups, since local governments are skittish that consolidating government or forcing municipalities to share services will dilute or reduce services. The unions are dubious about any plans to revamp pension benefits. And teachers and school officials are worried about whether the state will change the formula for financing schools in an adverse way.
 The state also has less financial flexibility than other states, because of court mandates on school financing and because of enormous debt that piled up during previous administrations, Democratic and Republican alike, said Judith C. Cambria, an independent fiscal and education analyst who has worked on state issues since the 1970's.
 And with the entire legislature up for election in 2007, it might not be in the best interest of Republicans to see these proposals -- from a Democratic governor, and a Democratic Legislature -- succeed. That is why William E. Schluter, a former Republican state senator, supports a citizens' convention, because ''the delegates aren't worried about the next election.''
 Then again, Mr. Schluter and others give credit to Mr. Corzine and the Legislature for at least trying.
 ''Even if they can make a couple of strides toward it, it would be a step in the right direction,'' said Claire G. Cohen, a consultant to the credit rating agency Fitch Ratings.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Mel Evans/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (68%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (64%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%) David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



123 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: With Eye on Political Reality, A Shorter Vacation for Bush

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., Aug. 5 

 BODY:
This parched Texas cattle town, population 705, has been a haven for President Bush every August, an escape from the buttoned-down confines of Washington. Here, Mr. Bush can clear brush, ride his mountain bike along scrubby trails, curl up with a book or kick up his feet for an afternoon siesta.
 But this year reality -- in the form of the November midterm elections, the peace activist Cindy Sheehan and the legacy of Hurricane Katrina -- has intruded on the president's summer vacation, cutting short his time at his 1,600-acre ranch. 
Instead of parking here for the whole month, Mr. Bush, who arrived Thursday night, will spend just 10 nights before returning to the White House. During his stay, his aides are taking pains to present Mr. Bush as deeply engaged in world events; on Saturday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and the national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, arrived to brief him on the Middle East.
 ''It basically reflects busy times and a busy schedule,'' said Dan Bartlett, counselor to Mr. Bush, explaining the abbreviated visit.
 It also reflects a political decision made by Mr. Bush's advisers, and the president himself, to prevent a repeat of the public relations debacle of last August. That month began with highly publicized protests by Ms. Sheehan, whose son was killed in Iraq, and ended with the image of the president on vacation while New Orleans drowned, an image that helped start his slide in popularity.
 So when summer planning time rolled around this year, the White House was determined to do something different.
 ''It was a political calculation that his advisers persuaded him that he needed to do, and I think he knew it,'' said one Republican with close ties to Mr. Bush, who would discuss internal White House decisions only if not quoted by name. He added, ''I don't think he is resentful or angry or anything; I think he is resigned to it.''
 Mark Knoller of CBS News, whose statistics on presidential trips to Crawford are so comprehensive that the White House refers inquiries to him, said the current visit was Mr. Bush's 59th trip to his ranch since taking office; as of Saturday, he had spent all or part of 384 days there. 
 The president spent 27 days at the ranch in August 2001 and 2002, and 29 days in August 2003 and 2005. But in 2004, when Mr. Bush was running for re-election, his Crawford time totaled just 13 days, according to Mr. Knoller's calculations. White House advisers say that the summer of 2006 will be patterned after that year, and that there is nothing unusual about it.
 Scott Reed, a Republican strategist, said the new calendar was smart politics. 
 ''This is a direct reflection of the debacle of last summer where a perception became a reality that he was isolated down in Crawford,'' Mr. Reed said, adding: ''I've always thought a month was a long time. Most families don't take a whole month off in the summer.''
 If there is one thing Mr. Bush can afford even less than the perception that he is isolated, it is the specter of a Democratic-controlled Congress. So this summer's fund-raising will begin on Thursday, when Mr. Bush leaves the ranch for a day trip to Wisconsin to deliver a speech on the economy and raise money for John Gard, a Republican Congressional candidate. 
 In a nod to the first anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, the president is also planning a late-August trip to Louisiana and the Gulf Coast. He is then expected to return to Crawford for a short while around Labor Day, aides say. 
 Practically as soon as he arrived, Mr. Bush began doing what he likes best, getting back to nature in the blistering heat. He spent Friday ''brush cutting and trail clearing, followed by a bike ride,'' said Tony Snow, the White House press secretary. The president also has several books on his summer reading list, Mr. Snow said, including two about Abraham Lincoln, another wartime president whose decisions were sometimes extremely unpopular.
 Here in Crawford, where the local economy has grown accustomed to its most famous resident and his entourage of Secret Service agents, reporters, presidential aides and distinguished visitors, the early presidential departure is not good news. 
 At the Red Bull Gift Shop and Gallery, one of several tourist shops tucked between boarded-up stores on Main Street, the manager, Jamie Burgess, could be found on Friday amid an array of George W. Bush knickknacks: shot glasses; mugs; mouse pads; and even a ''Turkey Dinner Bush'' doll featuring the president, clad in a silver flight jacket, as he appeared during his surprise 2003 Thanksgiving visit to Iraq. 
 Ms. Burgess said she was sorry Mr. Bush would cut short his stay. But she said there was now a new -- though largely unwelcome -- celebrity resident of Crawford, Ms. Sheehan, who was boosting the economy in her own way. Much to the dismay of many here, Ms. Sheehan recently bought five acres in Crawford; on Friday, workmen were on her land, grading a road in preparation for another influx of demonstrators. 
 In a telephone interview from Amman, Jordan, where she said she was meeting with members of the Iraqi Parliament, Ms. Sheehan said she had rearranged her own schedule to keep up with the president's changing plans and would return to Crawford on Sunday. She is planning to recreate a march she made last year to the Bush ranch, where she demanded, unsuccessfully, that the president meet with her.
 ''It seems like every time I adjust my plans, he adjusts his,'' she said, adding, ''I think he is very uncomfortable that I am there saying, 'You still haven't met with me.' '' 
 Mr. Snow, the White House press secretary, said officials had not given Ms. Sheehan a single thought. ''So far there are no plans at all,'' he said when asked about a meeting, ''but I would advise her to bring water, or Gatorade, or both.''
 And though Ms. Sheehan tried to claim credit for altering Mr. Bush's calendar, Crawford residents were skeptical. Jimmy Don Holmes, an artist who produces hand-cut metal wall hangings in his shop, Stars Over Texas, summed up the local sentiment this way: ''I don't think she's running him out of town. You don't run a Texan out of town.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: White House staff members boarding Marine One on Thursday to accompany the president to his ranch. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (71%) Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (67%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) United States; Crawford (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



124 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who Would Be Governor

BYLINE: By JOE CONASON. 
Joe Conason is an author, a columnist for The New York Observer and Salon, and the investigative editor of The American Prospect.

 BODY:
SPOILING FOR A FIGHT
 The Rise of Eliot Spitzer.
 By Brooke A. Masters.
 Illustrated. 353 pp. Times Books/
 Henry Holt & Company. $26.
Eliot Spitzer's political debut was not auspicious. Running for New York State attorney general in the 1994 Democratic primary, he was brash, energetic and blatantly opportunistic, with a disturbing inclination to play to the tabloids on the tangential question of the death penalty. (The attorney general has virtually nothing to do with the death penalty.) Back then he looked and sounded like the latest in a tiresome parade of rich men who hope to buy their way into public life. As with so many candidates of that type, his purpose in seeking elected office appeared to revolve around his own advancement more than any broader agenda -- and he got the result he seemed to deserve by running dead last. 
 Twelve years later, it is obvious that such stereotypes seriously underestimated him not only as a politician but also as a person. Undeterred by humiliating failure, he came back to run again, twice winning the office he first sought so unsuccessfully; he has practically secured his party's nomination for governor and remains on course toward election by a landslide this November, in part because nobody his own size dared to run against him. Two terms in elected office -- and in the headlines -- have transformed the eager but awkward novice into a smoothly professional, enormously popular politician. Democrats across the country expect a lot from him.
 In ''Spoiling for a Fight,'' a thoughtful and meticulously reported biography, Brooke A. Masters shows how the same personality that once struck observers as presumptuous and callow has come to be seen by many as bold, innovative and resolute. Spitzer's rise, as she explains in a cogent introductory chapter, is the tale of an intense, passionately committed politician who helped restore a progressive ideology to the center of Democratic politics. 
 A financial reporter for The Washington Post, Masters has covered Spitzer's investigations of Wall Street conflicts of interest, the mutual fund business and the insurance industry, and she strives to treat his critics and adversaries fairly. But she implicitly answers their most common complaint -- that Spitzer is nothing more than a publicity-crazed partisan demagogue -- by situating him within a tradition that can be traced back a hundred years to Theodore Roosevelt and Louis D. Brandeis. It is a tradition emphasizing the values of fairness and opportunity, and an effective government that intervenes, as Spitzer says, ''when the market needs to be tamed.''
 The story begins blandly enough with his privileged youth, spent in a wholesome Bronx environment of family solidarity, compassionate liberalism, intellectual curiosity and a strongly competitive work ethic. For his generation of New York overachievers, the tennis team, skiing lessons, elite passage through Horace Mann, Princeton and Harvard Law School, triumphs in student government and law review, clerkship with a federal judge and a stint in a big firm are all variations on a standard resume. It isn't easy to create tension in a book when the most challenging crisis faced by the real estate millionaire's son is a last-minute change in thesis topics (from the philosopher John Rawls's theory of justice to ''Revolutions in Post-Stalin Eastern Europe'').
 Once Spitzer arrives at yet another station on his well-worn legal path -- the office of the Manhattan district attorney, Robert Morgenthau -- the plot accelerates. Morgenthau has tutored many bright young lawyers over the decades, but few absorbed the lessons as thoroughly as Spitzer did. An embodiment of the golden age of Democratic politics, Morgenthau has repeatedly extended his prosecutorial reach to serve broader purposes -- and ventured into territory theoretically reserved for higher authorities. Working in the rackets bureau, Spitzer led an undercover investigation into the mob's domination of garment trucking in Manhattan. Instead of jail time for the indicted Gambino brothers, the case ended in a negotiated restructuring of the industry.
 Applying Morgenthau's methods to the Mafia was one thing; applying them to suspected white-collar swindlers at Merrill Lynch, the Marsh & McLennan insurance conglomerate and the mutual fund industry was something else altogether. Spitzer risked little by expanding old statutes to curtail the wage exploitation of grocery deliverymen, sue handgun manufacturers or curb polluting Midwestern utilities. Those were the most natural targets for a New York Democrat. 
 What distinguished the aggressive attorney general from his liberal peers was his determination to confront financial behemoths -- and federal regulators -- in the name of ordinary investors and market transparency. What turned him into a political phenomenon was the simultaneous collapse of ''free market'' fundamentalism in the Enron scandal, the crooked corporate dominoes that followed and the crash of the markets. 
 Granted unusual access to Spitzer and his staff, Masters dramatizes the cases he brought against the investment banks, insurance companies and mutual funds. There is both farce and calamity in these episodes, although the action often involves dredging through boxes of documents, negotiations among lawyers, and long days and nights at the office. She outlines a trail connecting crooked stock promotions by major brokerage firms to ''late trading'' in mutual funds by privileged investors to questionable commissions taken by insurance brokers. Occasionally her writing detours into a cul-de-sac of financial and legal complexity, but she capably lays out the schemes used by insiders to enrich themselves and scam the public.
 Spitzer's own mercurial behavior reliably colors the monochrome moments. At one point he proposes to settle a dispute with the California attorney general schoolyard style. ''I grew up in the Bronx!'' he barks. Yet despite his reputation for intimidating tactics and harsh judgments, he is more strategist than executioner. Unlike Rudolph Giuliani, with whom he is often compared, he is less concerned with notching convictions than with changing corporate behavior. His success has relied at least as much on public shaming of executives, and the consequences of falling stock prices, as on sending malefactors to prison.
 In the course of his crusading, Spitzer did two things that earned him the enduring fury of the Wall Street Journal editorial page, the conservative Federalist Society and every other exponent of an unfettered marketplace. He exposed widespread corruption, cronyism and immorality at the commanding heights of the American economy, exploding the myth of the self-regulating market. And he refashioned the conservative version of ''federalism'' into a weapon for liberal elected officials in the states, while the Bush administration was letting lobbyists write legislation and run regulatory agencies. 
 Following a generation of Democrats who lacked the pugnacious conviction of their ideological opponents, Spitzer forthrightly challenged conservatives and never hesitated to antagonize business interests. He appears invincible, because voters seem to sense that he stands for something he believes is important. Whatever his shortcomings, he doesn't suffer from the vacillation and lack of vision that plague his party these days.
 But if he is elected governor of New York, he will face responsibilities and demands utterly different from those of his current job. Rather than policing business executives, he will need to persuade them to invest in the depressed upstate region. Instead of filing lawsuits and indictments, he will have to pursue his laudable goals within the constraints of a balanced budget and a bipartisan culture of legislative inertia. 
 The most significant chapters of Spitzer's life are probably yet to be written. This diligent midlife appraisal charts his direction, and suggests he will continue to defy conventions. But will he, as Teddy Roosevelt commanded, continue to ''dare mighty things''?


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); LITERATURE (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); SKIING (67%); ETHICS (66%); TENNIS (64%); SPORTS (64%); INSURANCE (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%) Joe Conason; Brooke A Masters; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



125 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Drove To the Bank In a Ford

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
IF the Japanese want to sell cars here, they must build them here, America's automakers insisted back in the fuel-shocked 70's. 
 And build them they did. Detroit's brake, it turns out, was Japan's accelerator.
 Last week, for the first time, Japanese auto companies said they were now selling more vehicles outside Japan than at home -- the bulk in the United States. What's more, Japan's biggest automaker, Toyota, upset Ford for second place in the American market in July and reported a huge rise in profits for the quarter. Many analysts predict that Toyota will overtake first-place General Motors in global sales this year. 
 It's quite possible that none of this would have happened, Japanese car company officials say, had American executives, politicians and union officials not put pressure on their companies nearly 30 years ago to build factories in the United States. It certainly wouldn't have happened so fast.
 ''You could never do that by simply shipping cars from Japan,'' said Dennis Cuneo, a senior vice president at Toyota Motor Manufacturing North America.
 Beyond expanding American sales, the plants have given the Japanese companies a window into American life, creating thousands of jobs in grateful communities and blunting the stereotype of the automakers as predators interested only in sending profits back to Japan.
 Detroit's strategy seemed like a good idea at the time. When they began demanding that the Japanese companies build factories here, the four American companies -- G.M., Ford, Chrysler and American Motors (later bought by Chrysler) -- had almost 70 percent of the American market. They employed nearly 800,000 people in factories that carpeted the country.
 But two fuel shocks in the 70's had given Japanese automakers nearly 30 percent of the market, up from less than 20 at the start of the decade, and Detroit was glancing more frequently in the rearview mirror. 
 Henry Ford II at Ford and Lee A. Iacocca at Chrysler led the calls for the Japanese companies to open factories or face limits on sales. Douglas A. Fraser, the president of the United Automobile Workers at the time, went further. Mr. Fraser, whose union was pushing measures in Congress that would have limited each Japanese company to just 200,000 sales a year, or about a quarter the number of cars and trucks that Toyota was selling then in the United States, flew to Japan to confront the leaders of Toyota, Honda, Nissan and Mitsubishi.
 ''Invest where your market is,'' Mr. Fraser told them, he recalled last week. ''Build cars where your consumers are.''
 ''I not only advocated it, I yelled at them,'' he said with a chuckle. 
 Ultimately, Japan and the United States agreed to voluntary limits on the imports, essentially forcing the companies to build here. Detroit reasoned that the limits would give it time to recoup lost ground, as the Japanese sorted through the complexities of setting up plants and pipelines of parts to supply them. 
 Not only did the ground remain lost, so did the unquestioning loyalty of American consumers, as Japanese companies moved in on virtually every market, from family cars to luxury models to minivans.
 Despite having three decades to outwit the Japanese, G.M., Ford and Chrysler find themselves in a worse situation. The big S.U.V.'s and pickups that fed profits in the 90's and helped them briefly halt the Japanese climb are falling out of favor in the face of $3-a-gallon gasoline, and Detroit has failed to develop enough fuel-efficient cars to overcome its gas-guzzling image. The American companies are stuck with heavy labor costs, especially for pensions and health care, which they say make them unable to compete with the Japanese, largely unburdened by union contracts and hefty legacy costs. 
 Detroit held 52 percent of the market last month, its smallest share ever. The Japanese took nearly 40 percent of the American market, their biggest. 
 Only now, most of the Japanese sales come from the factories that Detroit insisted they create. 
 And they are not just places to make cars. American plants have given the Japanese companies a tutorial in dealing with other cultures. Toyota is now building its Camry sedan, America's best-selling car, in seven countries, including Vietnam and China, using ideas gleaned from Camry's base in Kentucky.
 Rural towns like Georgetown, Ky., and East Liberty, Ohio, mere dots on the map before Toyota and Honda arrived, now boast jobs with $25-an-hour wages that rival those at Detroit factories, helping offset some of the half-million automotive jobs Detroit lost. The factories have lifted the economies of entire states, like Indiana, which recently won a new Honda plant; Tennessee, where Nissan has two factories and will put its American headquarters; and Alabama, with four major car factories in 15 years.
 With that has come influence in state capitals as well as in Washington, where the Japanese no longer face the protectionist threats that forced them to invest here. Now states like Indiana line up to offer millions of dollars in incentives to land their plants, while President Bush, who said Detroit needed to build ''relevant'' products, has postponed a meeting with Detroit auto leaders three times this year. 
 ''In an odd way,'' Mr. Cuneo of Toyota said, ''we owe Mr. Iacocca a favor for continuing to keep the pressure on.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Made in America -- A Toyota plant in Alabama. (Photo by Gary Tramontina/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (65%) Automobiles; Factories and Industrial Plants; Production; Sales; Automobiles

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); TOYOTA MOTOR MANUFACTURING USA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; Ford Motor Co

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



126 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: For a Post-Castro Cuba, Castro Lite

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
EVEN from his sickbed -- or what delirious crowds in Miami last Monday had for a time believed was his deathbed -- Fidel Castro was obsessed with how history would judge him. In a statement outlining a new provisional government headed by his brother Raul, he exhorted Cubans to continue the long revolutionary struggle during his absence, repeating, as always, that ''imperialism will never vanquish Cuba.'' 
 With his bushy beard and his booming anti-American rhetoric, Mr. Castro, who turns 80 next Sunday, will linger in the Cuban imagination far into the future as a double image -- one, the romantic revolutionary of 1958, promising Cuba equality, prosperity and independence; the other, the prisoner of a half-century of confrontation with the United States that kept Cuba from evolving in a way that could deliver on the promises.
Today, many experts say that any successor loyal to the Castro revolution may have to chip away at his legacy in order to save it. The Cuban people may revere his memory, but they will also demand change. 
 Hardliners within the regime remain. But rank-and-file soldiers, long deprived of promotions and mobility, will want the military to stop running hotels and resorts and return to the role of a traditional military. Small-scale entrepreneurs, who tasted free enterprise with their small restaurants and fruit stands, will want a freer economy. Intellectuals will want the state security apparatus dismantled. And the majority of Cubans -- poor and powerless -- will demand a chance for a better life than they've known under Fidel. 
 Cuba has survived all these years on the largesse of ''padrones'' who shared Fidel Castro's disdain for Washington -- first the Soviet Union with its sugar subsidies, now Venezuela with its cheap oil. But counting on such friends for the long term, rather than reforming Cuba's economy and entering the global markets for trade and capital, seems a risky bet at best. And without Fidel Castro's mythic presence to draw them, those friends might be tempted to wander. 
 Last week, as Mr. Castro lay in a hospital recovering from intestinal surgery, it seemed entirely possible that he would never retake the same tight-fisted control of the government, and that a long-awaited transition had begun. 
 But change will have to be done carefully. Most of the 11 million Cubans on the island today were born after Mr. Castro came to power and have known only his Communism. So despite the decrepit housing, the wasting food shortages and a repressive security system that can make a whispered complaint the basis of a jail sentence, Fidel Castro remains an admired figure to them. He has allowed no statues of himself, but his visage on posters, billboards, television and newspapers is as familiar to Cubans as the sky. 
 Every action that Raul Castro, 75, or any other successor takes will be measured against a simple standard: Does it honor Fidel Castro's popular legacy, or tear it down? One Cuba expert, Marifeli Perez-Stable, a scholar at the Inter-American Dialogue in Washington, says that a successor will have to do both. 
 As a hero of the revolution himself, and a prominent figure since, Raul Castro is one of the few people who could change the nation's course. But even for him, it would not be easy.
 Ms. Perez-Stable says, for example, that any successor will face what she calls a straitjacket if they want to start reforming the economy. ''Whatever is left of Fidel's revolution,'' she said, ''will constrain the future of any successor.'' 
 The most powerful constraints that remain are virulent anti-Americanism and a centralized economy run on an ideology that broke down long ago. 
 Mr. Castro used anti-Americanism to build his political power at home, his reputation in Latin America, and his strategic alliance with the Soviet Union during the cold war, as well as to form his current bonds with Venezula's Hugo Chavez. 
 But the American embargo that followed the rebels' triumph froze Cuba out of any hope of building a future based on trade with the biggest economy in the Americas.
 Canada, Mexico and many other countries continued to do business with Cuba, asserting that the way to deal with Mr. Castro is to engage him, not isolate him. Appreciating his defiance of the economic giant in whose shadow they also lived, they kept trading with him even when he could not pay his bills.
 But with Mr. Castro out of the picture, that degree of enthusiasm could easily dry up, leaving a potential successor with only more difficult options. 
 One option lies in China. Raul Castro has visited there and expressed admiration for that nation's ability to meld economic openings while preserving Communist power. It could be a model for Cuba, but ideological hard-liners in the government would strenuously object. 
 Cuba could continue to rely on Venezuela's revolutionary solidarity and its oil, but that would leave Cuba at the mercy of Mr. Chavez -- and dependent on his longevity in office.
 Or, in what may be the most problematic solution, Cuba could accept some form of cooperation with the United States. But any Cuban leader who did that might be accused of making Fidel Castro turn in his grave. 
 Moreover, in recent years Mr. Castro has placed young ''Fidelistas'' in key political, ideological and economic positions within the government. They would try to keep a successor from straying too far from Mr. Castro's devotion to the cause of anti-imperialism. 
 After all, Cuban resentment of the United States as an interventionist power predates Mr. Castro, just as his own anti-Americanism predated his Communism, and it was Mr. Castro's titanic talent for getting under the skin of American presidents that made him a hero throughout much of the third world.
 Even today, that popularity survives in large parts of Latin America -- as reflected in the recent successes of Mr. Chavez in Venezuela and of Evo Morales in Bolivia -- and it provides the most likely scenario for immediate support for a Castro loyalist to keep Cuba going.
 In lands where free trade and open economies -- the methods favored by Washington -- have not delivered a better standard of living, attacking Washington is a popular political stand, and Mr. Castro's own economic failures do not seem to matter. So continued support from Mr. Chavez, in particular, could give any successor a way to keep Cuba afloat without change for some time.
 China, with its keen interest in Cuban nickel, could continue to develop its Cuban market ties at the same time. 
 But China also offers any successor of Fidel Castro a game plan for change and political survival.
 In Beijing today -- a city experiencing explosive growth based on China's accommodation to the global market -- a huge portrait of Mao still hovers over Tiananmen Square, and crowds throng Mao's mausoleum. William Ratliff, a research fellow at Stanford's Hoover Institution who is an expert on Cuba and China, said that despite the brutal repressions of Mao's rule, most Chinese continue to admire him. 
 He said China's ability to honor Mao, even as it tears down the economy he set in place, could provide a model for Cuba. 
 ''Maybe Raul's next trip to China should be to study image making,'' Mr. Ratliff said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Revolutionary -- The young fighter of 1958 still sets the limits on Cuba's future. (Photo by Prensa Latina, via Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SENTENCING (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); RESORTS (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); FOOD CHARITIES (60%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) United States International Relations; Foreign Aid

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (94%); RAUL CASTRO (89%) Anthony Depalma; Fidel (Pres) Castro; Raul Castro

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Cuba; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



127 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Get There From Here 

 BODY:
Gov. M. Jodi Rell's appointments to the State Department of Transportation's top three leadership positions gave Connecticut commuters a fleeting, yet alien feeling: hope. The vacancies in the transportation commissioner's and two deputy commissioners' jobs presented a rare opportunity to Governor Rell, one that could bring new focus to the department. 
 But her work is not done. While change is welcome, her continued interest is needed to tackle one of the biggest problems in Connecticut. The state has neglected transportation for years. Most regions of Connecticut are underserved by mass transit, and too many portions of major roads are outmoded relics which become parking lots during rush hour. Improvements, when made, move at a glacial pace. 
A case in point is the vital project to improve Interstate 95 around New Haven, which includes replacing the Pearl Harbor Memorial Bridge over the Quinnipiac River, commonly referred to as the Q Bridge. The highway was designed in the 1950's to carry 40,000 vehicles on each side per day; it now carries tens of thousands more. Three lanes go in both directions and shoulders are nonexistent, so any disabled vehicle creates a logjam. Because lanes merge where Route I-95 melds with Routes I-91 and 34, tractor-trailer trucks shift from one side to the other along with commuters, in Connecticut's version of ''Survivor.'' 
 That the area needs to be completely rebuilt is beyond argument; design work has been going on for more than five years.
 But here is the stunner: According to a recent announcement from the department, construction of the bridge -- which is all of about three-quarters of a mile long -- will take eight years.
 You could hear moans from Greenwich to Groton. The Raymond E. Baldwin Bridge, spanning a half-mile over the Connecticut River on Route I-95, took three and a half years to build in the early 1990's. For that matter, Hoover Dam took five years to build in the 1930's. Why will replacing the Q Bridge take so long?
 The department says that the bridge will be constructed in pieces on the ground and lifted into place. It's a very unusual design, seen more commonly in Europe. The intersection is complicated. Good things take time. All this is true. 
 But something has to be done to keep traffic moving while construction is taking place. It's not just that drivers are going to go crazy, although that is something to think about. Jobs are at stake, not to mention Connecticut's economy. One reason employment growth has been stagnant here for 15 years is that Connecticut companies realize, increasingly, that you can't get there from here. 
 The Department of Transportation needs a sense of real urgency and creative thinking on transportation issues, and Ms. Rell should be looking not only inside but also outside the state for answers. These problems are too important to leave to the bureaucracy, which means that the governor herself should take charge. 
 The experience of Houston, whose overall metropolitan population is close to Connecticut's, shows how strong executive leadership can make a difference. Mayor Bill White made traffic a top priority. He also asserted that expanding highways alone would not solve congestion. He listened instead to his engineers, who told him that if traffic could be reduced by as little as 100 cars during rush hours, traffic jams and slowdowns would be reduced. 
 Here in Connecticut, engineers say that getting 200 cars off the Q Bridge at peak traffic times -- when traffic moves at 2,000 cars an hour -- could have a similar impact. But how to do that?
 Again, Houston offers possible answers. Mr. White started a high-profile campaign called the Flexible Workplace Initiative to encourage companies to give their employees more workplace options, such as flexible hours, working from home, and compressed workweeks.
 Companies in the Houston area listened -- and more than 30 major employers took up the challenge. Thousands of employees of Johnson Space Center began to work flexible hours. Boeing, with facilities in Houston, said its 12,000 employees across the country who work from home saved nearly a quarter-million miles a day in travel time and also saved the company nearly $6,000 a person in facilities expenses. Other businesses followed suit.
 This resulted in happier workers, enhanced productivity and an improvement in traffic without having to spend hundreds of millions to achieve that goal, not to mention a reduction in energy use and air pollution. Moreover, Houston is now better prepared to deal with a sudden emergency -- avian flu, for instance -- that could require an overnight change in workplace habits. 
 Obviously, flextime alone will not keep traffic flowing smoothly during construction, so other solutions -- like increasing the number and frequency of trains running on Shore Line East from New London to New Haven -- would help. Ms. Rell should also call upon the department to make sure that the construction of the new Q Bridge will not take any longer than necessary. This should not turn into a lifetime employment project.
 Connecticut likes to think of itself as a center of innovation, but there has been little evidence of that when it comes to moving people and goods. Continuing to rely upon old ways of thinking is an invitation to economic stagnation and commuter frustration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Transportation; Editorials; Bridges and Tunnels; Roads and Traffic; Delays (Transportation)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (90%) M Jodi (Gov) Rell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (77%) Quinnipiac River; Connecticut; Interstate 95

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006



128 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: Counterinsurgency, by the Book

BYLINE: By Richard H. Shultz Jr. and Andrea J. Dew. 
Richard H. Shultz Jr., the director of the international security studies program at Tufts University's Fletcher School, and Andrea J. Dew, the research associate for the program, are the authors of ''Insurgents, Terrorists and Militias: The Warriors of Contemporary Combat.''

DATELINE: Boston 

 BODY:
AS we all know, war has changed. In the 21st century it is dominated by irregular and unconventional ways of fighting. Al Qaeda demonstrated this on 9/11, and the bloody wars in Afghanistan and Iraq are only further corroboration. War can no longer be waged effectively by conventional combat forces employed by modern militaries. 
 The Pentagon is just starting to catch up with these changes. It is in the midst of a strategic overhaul aimed at coming up with new ways to fight new wars. This was first signaled in the 2006 Quadrennial Defense Review, which described the ''long war'' America is now engaged in as ''a war that is irregular in its nature'' against adversaries that ''are not conventional military forces.''
More recently, two of the Pentagon's smartest and most experienced generals, David Petraeus of the Army and Jim Mattis of the Marines, have overseen the production of a new counterinsurgency manual -- called the FM 3-24/FMFM 3-24 in Pentagon-speak -- for fighting these irregular wars. This blueprint declares that it is primarily for ''leaders and planners at the battalion level and above'' who are ''involved in counterinsurgency operations regardless of where these operations may occur.'' 
 The current draft of this counterinsurgency manual, which has been shown to civilian experts and been posted on the Internet by the Federation of American Scientists, provides an encyclopedic 241-page review of insurgencies that took place in the 20th century and an alphabetical list of the tools of counterinsurgency. The manual, which is still a work in progress, amounts to an introductory course in the history of insurgency and counterinsurgency.
 But to be of practical use to American troops in fierce battles in Iraq, Afghanistan and beyond, the final draft of the handbook must be more than a Counterinsurgency 101 exercise. It must, at a minimum, accurately identify the types of armed groups American troops will have to fight, which include more than traditional insurgents. It must also provide a framework for profiling the organization and operational tendencies of these armed groups, to learn their strengths and weaknesses. And it has to map out an intelligence model that will dig out actionable intelligence that can be used to find and defeat armed groups.
 On all these critical requirements, the current draft of the manual comes up short. Based on our research and the lessons learned from centuries of counterinsurgency efforts, we recommend three major revisions for those drafting the final version.
 First, you must know your enemy. In today's internal wars several different types of armed groups -- not just traditional insurgents bent on changing a national regime -- engage in unconventional combat. Iraq is illustrative. Those fighting American forces include a complex mix of Sunni tribal militias, former regime members, foreign and domestic jihadists, Shiite militias and criminal gangs. Each has different motivations and ways of fighting. Tackling them requires customized strategies. 
 Unfortunately, well into 2005, the American military subsumed all these groups under the rubric ''insurgents'' and planned its strategy accordingly. It didn't imagine or prepare for the possibility that former regime members had their own ''day-after'' plan to fight on even if they lost the conventional battle. 
 It didn't imagine that Iraq would become a magnet for international jihadists, so it failed to seal the borders. It didn't imagine the Sunni tribal militias would react with such violence to the American presence, so it failed to take the pre-emptive economic and political steps to address their grievances. And it failed to understand that there were radical elements within the Shiite community that would use force to try to establish a theocratic system.
 These acute miscalculations gave those who seek to defeat us time to marshal their forces, and seriously undercut Washington's overall efforts to stabilize Iraq.
 The Pentagon's new counterinsurgency manual suffers from similar flaws. It focuses almost exclusively on combating cohesive groups of insurgents who share the same goals. Yes, there are traditional insurgent groups in Iraq, like cells of former Baathists. But the foreign terrorists, religious militias and criminal organizations operate from very different playbooks. We have to learn to read them the way other nations faced with insurgencies have. 
 Consider the British experience during the 1980's and 90's in Northern Ireland. By working hand-in-glove with the Special Branch of the local police force, the Royal Ulster Constabulary, British intelligence agents penetrated the ranks of the Irish Republican Army, eventually capturing and incarcerating a legion of its leaders and operatives. 
 A former top-ranking I.R.A. commander who later became an informer told us that, when he was imprisoned with higher-ranking I.R.A. officials, they lamented over and over that the British strategy was so effective and their ranks were so depleted by the end of the 1980's that ''the boys can't move, can't operate, always have to be looking over their shoulders.'' As a result, Britain was able to negotiate a relatively successful end to hostilities and to contain most of the splinter groups that refused to abide by it. 
 The Pentagon's amended manual should spell out similar ways of intuiting the organizational and operational differences that can exist between and within insurgent armies, terrorist outfits, militias, and criminal groups. It should also give a better history of how such organizations have collaborated and factionalized over the years in Iraq, Afghanistan, Colombia and elsewhere. 
 Second, the final manual must provide our troops with a systematic way of ''profiling'' each specific armed group. As it stands, the guide is a laundry list of the generic elements of insurgency movements -- leadership, organization and networks, popular support, ideology, activities and foreign support. 
 Meeting and defeating terrorist groups requires a far deeper understanding of their factions -- and the exploitation of the rifts between them. Consider how such profiling led to the demise of the Abu Nidal organization, which 20 years ago was the world's most lethal terrorist group. 
 As it reached its peak strength, the organization began to experience serious fissures among its leaders. Several key members felt that Abu Nidal himself was siphoning off funds. He in turn accused them of plotting to assassinate him. Eventually he had some 300 hard-core leaders and operatives gunned down or otherwise dispatched. By the early 1990's, the group had been effectively neutered. 
 How did this come about? In part because American and other Western intelligence agencies -- with the help of local Arab intelligence services who were able to get operatives close to key members of the group and spread paranoia and suspicion -- successfully grasped and manipulated factional rivalries. 
 A key for America should have been to get such information about schisms and unhappiness inside the insurgent groups we face, particularly in their formative stages when they were most vulnerable. Many former insurgent and terrorist leaders we have interviewed -- hardened veterans of late 20th-century armed groups from Central America, southern Africa and Europe -- told us that their vulnerabilities and factional strife were most blatant in their groups' early years and could have been exploited if security agencies had looked for them. 
 THE third problem with the manual is that it actually overstresses winning ''hearts and minds'' -- the political, economic, civic and other ''soft power'' tactics aimed at winning popular support. Yes, such steps are keys to victory; they played a central part in counterinsurgency victories in the 1950's by the Philippine government of Ramon Magsaysay and by the British in Malaya. In both places, the government invested heavily in education, local economies, public works and social welfare programs to wean their populations away from the insurgents.
 But soft power tactics are not the only keys to victory. An insurgency is still war, and the key is finding and capturing or killing terrorist and militia leaders. It is an intelligence-led struggle. The Pentagon manual rightly insists that ''intelligence drives operations'' and that ''without good intelligence, a counterinsurgent is like a blind boxer.'' Yet the document provides no organizational blueprint for collecting such intelligence. 
 We have to take a lesson from other democracies that have figured out how to neutralize and defuse armed groups. The British and the Israelis, among others, have refined an effective intelligence model through bloody trial and error. It involves collecting actionable intelligence at the local level on a continual basis.
 Consider the Israeli experience. After the 1967 war it built up a remarkable intelligence-gathering system in the West Bank and Gaza. But after the Oslo accords of 1993 it gave up this advantage and withdrew.
 However, when the second intifada erupted in late 2000 and Israeli casualties mounted, the Israelis went back to work. They honeycombed the territories with local intelligence units that infiltrated Palestinian armed groups through agents, electronic surveillance and paid informants. It was not easy, but they did it, and their intelligence successes contributed to the Palestinian Authority's gradual de-emphasis of terrorist acts in favor of political initiatives, and even led Hamas to engage in the cease-fire that held until the current crisis. 
 The British and the Israelis have the blueprints for successful intelligence architecture. This is a key counterinsurgency tool that must be included in the final version of the Pentagon's counterinsurgency manual. Otherwise, the various anti-American groups in Iraq will continue to own the streets and back alleyways of Ramadi, Falluja and other battlegrounds. And the longer they do, the more likely their dream -- to inflict a strategic defeat on America -- will seem possible.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by The Heads of State)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); AL-QAEDA (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%) 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (57%) Richard H Jr Shultz; Andrea J Dew

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



129 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Intimations of Recession

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
These are the dog days of summer, but there's a chill in the air. Suddenly -- really just in the last few weeks -- people have starting talking seriously about a possible recession. And it's not just economists who seem worried. Goldman Sachs recently reported that the confidence of chief executives at major corporations has plunged; a clear majority of C.E.O.'s now say that conditions in the world economy, and the U.S. economy in particular, are worsening rather than improving.
 On the face of it, this loss of faith seems strange. Recent growth and jobs numbers have been disappointing, but not disastrous. 
But economic numbers don't speak for themselves. They always have to be interpreted as part of a story. And the latest numbers, while not that bad taken out of context, seem inconsistent with the stories optimists were telling about the U.S. economy.
 The key point is that the forces that caused a recession five years ago never went away. Business spending hasn't really recovered from the slump it went into after the technology bubble burst: nonresidential investment as a share of G.D.P., though up a bit from its low point, is still far below its levels in the late 1990's. Also, the trade deficit has doubled since 2000, diverting a lot of demand away from goods produced in the United States.
 Nonetheless, the economy grew fairly fast over the last three years, mainly thanks to a gigantic housing boom. This boom led directly to unprecedented spending on home construction. It also allowed consumers to convert rising home values into cash through mortgage refinancing, so that consumer spending could run far ahead of families' incomes. (Americans have been spending more than they earn for the past year and a half.)
 Even optimists generally concede that the housing boom must eventually end, and that consumers will eventually have to start saving again. But the conventional wisdom was that housing would have a ''soft landing'' -- that the boom would taper off gradually, and that other sources of growth would take its place. You might say that the theory was that business investment and exports would stand up as housing stood down.
 The latest numbers suggest, however, that this theory isn't working much better on the economic front than it is in Baghdad. 
 Signs of a deflating housing bubble began appearing a year ago, but for a while it was possible to argue that eliminating a bit of ''froth'' in the housing market wouldn't do the overall economy much harm. Now, for the first time, problems in the housing market are starting to seriously reduce economic growth: the latest G.D.P. data show real residential investment falling at an accelerating pace. The latest job numbers show falling employment in home construction, and retail employment has fallen over the past year, suggesting that consumer spending is running out of steam. (Gas at $3 a gallon doesn't help, either.)
 Meanwhile, neither business investment nor exports seem to be growing fast enough to make up for the housing slump.
 Now maybe we'll still manage that soft landing despite a rapidly rising number of unsold houses; or maybe there's a boom in business investment and/or exports just over the horizon. But based on what we know now, there's an economic slowdown coming.
 This slowdown might not be sharp enough to be formally declared a recession. But weak growth feels like a recession to most people; remember the long ''jobless recovery'' that followed the official end of the 2001 recession? 
 And what will policy makers do about a slump, if it happens? A snarky but accurate description of monetary policy over the past five years is that the Federal Reserve successfully replaced the technology bubble with a housing bubble. But where will the Fed find another bubble? 
 And with the budget still deep in deficit and the costs of the Iraq war still spiraling upward, it's hard to see Congress agreeing on any significant fiscal stimulus package -- especially because history suggests that the Bush administration and Congressional leaders will turn any debate about how to help the economy into yet another attempt to smuggle in tax cuts for the wealthy.
 One last thing: the real wages of most workers fell during the ''Bush boom'' of the last three years. If that boom, such as it was, is already over, workers have every right to ask, ''Is that it?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); HOME PRICES (86%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%); EXECUTIVES (57%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%) 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (57%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



130 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Global Warming Is in Our Hands

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Hot Enough Yet?,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Aug. 3):
 If we continue to consume energy at the present rate, the resulting heating of our climate will cause serious economic problems and the death of more people who are too weak to survive record heat. 
Politicians should be carrying out solutions like cleaner energy sources, higher fuel standards for cars, and ethanol fuels for cars, but sadly, there is no reason to expect leadership from the Bush administration and its allies in Congress. 
 But each of us can do more to reduce energy consumption: walking or biking for errands, using public transportation to go to work instead of the car, turning the thermostat up in the summer and down in the winter, buying more efficient appliances and replacing gas guzzlers with hybrid cars are just a few of the things that we can do. 
 But we also have to vote out the politicians who act like employees of the coal and oil companies.

David Kenosian
Berwyn, Pa., Aug. 3, 2006

To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert says the best way to learn about global warming is to see Al Gore's documentary, ''An Inconvenient Truth.'' Unfortunately, many Republicans are not seeing it because of Mr. Gore.
 I urge all to see it. The science should not be a partisan issue. The scientific evidence is very clearly explained for those with and without a scientific background. 
 Those who see the movie will be in a much better position to understand the arguments pro and con.
 The movie is in accord with the views of the vast majority of credible scientists. To listen only to the few dissenters could result in dire consequences for our families and the earth.

Jack Holtzman
San Diego, Aug. 3, 2006

To the Editor:
 Five years ago, we replaced our oil burner with a ground source (geothermal) heat pump, which heats and cools our house and provides some hot water.
 In New Jersey, one can buy renewable energy from the local utility for a small premium, which for us amounts to an extra $5.50 per month on an average $85 per month utility bill.
 Thanks to these measures (which every homeowner can take), our house emits virtually no carbon dioxide. We also bought a hybrid car.
 My main motivation at the time was my understanding that oil and natural gas were soon going to become much more expensive because of OPEC price increases for oil and a shortage of supply in North America for natural gas. The cost of these fossil fuels has and will continue to rise substantially.
 Homeowners now have two compelling reasons to stop burning fossil fuels: climate change and much higher and increasing prices.

Alfred Cavallo
Princeton, N.J., Aug. 3, 2006

To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert makes a point that is dangerously disheartening. He suggests that we have been so deprived of good leadership from President Bush for so long that we may fail to recognize it when it is actually offered to us in the future.

Robert B. Primack
Gainesville, Fla., Aug. 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (86%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); WEATHER (72%); BIOFUELS (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); ALCOHOLS (71%); ETHANOL (71%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: AL GORE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



131 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: For Investors, Money Is On A Fed Pause

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Is the Fed there yet?
 After a string of 17 consecutive interest rate increases, the Federal Reserve may pause this week in its long campaign of monetary tightening, which has lifted the benchmark federal funds rate to 5.25 percent, from 1 percent in June 2004.
At least that is what most investors have come to believe, especially after a weak jobs report on Friday that offered further evidence the economy was slowing. 
 But while a weaker economy alone could temper price increases, many economists remain worried that inflation will not be easily stamped out. 
 Not only are higher energy prices still leaching into broader inflation, but slower productivity gains and rising labor costs could stoke prices in the months ahead. 
 So though the Fed may take a breather at the meeting of its interest rate-setting committee tomorrow, many analysts say it is not off the hook, and may well have to start raising rates again. 
 ''Their model of the economy is based on the premise that the economy will stay on a slower growth track, and that slower growth track will act to dampen inflation,'' said Lynn Reaser, an economist with Bank of America. ''If either of those assumptions are wrong, then they will be back into raising rates, particularly if inflation expectations start to move higher.''
 Expectations that the Fed will pause have gelled in the wake of several reports suggesting weakness in employment and economic growth. On Friday, the Labor Department said unemployment rose to 4.8 percent in July, from 4.6 percent in June. That came on the heels of an unexpectedly sharp economic slowdown in the second quarter.
 To some economists, this appeared to support the outlook of the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, who told Congress last month that the Fed projected economic growth would slow to ''a pace close to that of the growth of potential'' this year and next. This, he added, should nudge unemployment up and ''help to limit inflation pressures over time.'' 
 Desmond Lachman, an economist and resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization, said that ''the right thing to do would be to pause now.'' He added: ''You don't want to repeat the mistake the Fed has made often in the past of keeping tightening even as the economy is on a downturn.''
 After the release of the employment report, Ian C. Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., sent a note to investors that said: ''over all: too soft to hike.'' By the time the financial markets closed on Friday, investors in interest rate futures gave only about a 15 percent chance that the Fed would raise interest rates by a further quarter of a point tomorrow.
 Still, with the economy being buffeted by energy prices, which have pushed inflation up and growth down, the Fed's job might not be as clear-cut as all that. 
 ''Forecasting looks pretty hazardous right now,'' said Alan S. Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman who is a professor of economics at Princeton. ''On top of the normal problem of 'where do you stop' that you have at the end of any interest rate cycle, you have the supply shock from energy prices finally coming through.''
 Inflation has risen despite slower growth of late, and it shows little sign of abating soon. In his testimony to Congress in July, Mr. Bernanke acknowledged that the Fed's favored measure of inflation -- which tracks prices of consumer goods and services, but excludes food and energy -- should range from 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent this year, and slow to 2 percent to 2.25 percent in 2007. This is above Mr. Bernanke's long-stated comfort zone of 1 percent to 2 percent. 
 Moreover, the Fed's inflation outlook may be too benign. Some economists believe that the case for slower economic growth may be overstated. The slowdown in the housing market has been relatively modest, and energy prices are unlikely to keep rising as fast as they have in the past. 
 Most important, several economists say, labor costs appear to have been picking up lately. On average, hourly earnings for workers have risen 3.8 percent in the last four months, compared with the same period last year. While this has still mostly lagged inflation, the increase has been the fastest since 2001. What's more, the Commerce Department recently revised upward the growth of wage and salary income this year.
 ''The dilemma for the Fed has been worsening over time,'' said Ethan Harris, an economist at Lehman Brothers. ''For a while it looked like maybe there was pressure from labor costs and maybe there wasn't. But this settles the debate: there is labor cost pressure. Inflation is not just a commodities story.''
 The revisions of economic data released by the government last month, which increased the recorded growth of workers' wages this year and reduced the average rate of economic growth over the last three years, has raised concerns about potential inflation risks in the offing. 
 The revisions suggested that productivity growth had been slower than previously reported. This would imply that the trend rate of growth that the economy can sustain, without hitting capacity constraints and then igniting inflation pressures, could be lower than currently understood.
 Robert E. Mellman, an economist at J. P. Morgan, observed that it might require very slow growth to slow inflation. Economic growth in the second quarter cooled to merely 2.5 percent, and still the unemployment rate declined 0.1 percent. ''There's truth to the fact that slow growth can bring inflation down, but you would need pretty weak growth to do that,'' he said.
 Still, it typically takes years for the economy to feel the full impact of rising short-term interest rates. Fed officials and other economists have said that the rate increases of the last two years will continue to slow the economy for many months to come. 
 ''A key principle is that the Fed must be forward-looking,'' said Jean Boivin, an associate professor of finance and economics at Columbia who has written research with Mr. Bernanke in the past. 
 In a speech almost two weeks ago, Janet L. Yellen, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said: ''It might be thought that policy should continue to tighten until the inflation data move back to a rate consistent with price stability. But I would argue that a gradual approach is likely to be better.''
 Ms. Yellen likened raising interest rates until inflation was back in the desired range to having a person suffering from high blood pressure pop pills until the pressure receded, by which time he or she might well have overdosed. 
 ''You could end up with blood pressure that's too low,'' she said, ''and that could well present its own health hazards.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); FUTURES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%) 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Eduardo Porter; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



132 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Papers Join the Cry Of 'Read All About It, Free' 

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
When Metro International, a publisher of free newspapers, moved into France in 2002, established competitors cried foul, and some of their workers took to the streets. Four years later, Metro and other free papers are fixtures of the French cityscape, accounting for one in five papers read in France, and publishers of paid-for dailies are considering free editions of their own.
 The about-face in France reflects a broader shift across Europe, as upstart free papers continue their rapid growth and publishers of existing papers, casting about for any way to retain readers, increasingly turn to giveaways. Last week, the News Corporation, which publishes The Sun and The Times of London, confirmed plans to start a free newspaper in Britain next month.
 In France, Le Monde and Le Figaro are said to be working on free newspapers. And in Germany, where entrenched publishers have resisted the trend, Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck, publisher of the financial daily Handelsblatt, plans to start a free business paper as soon as Monday, according to reports in German news media. 
 ''Almost all over Europe, you see circulation going down for paid newspapers,'' said Piet Bakker, associate professor of communications at the University of Amsterdam. ''At the same time, the economy is improving, helping the advertising market. Free newspapers are seen as the best way to take advantage of this.''
 Free newspapers have made inroads elsewhere, but their gains have been greatest in Europe, where their tabloid formats and short articles make them handy for commuters on public transportation.
 Europeans read about 19 million of the roughly 28 million free newspapers distributed daily around the world, according to the World Association of Newspapers, based in Paris. The European total has doubled over the last three years, according to the group, and so-called free sheets now account for more than half of all papers circulated in Spain and more than 30 percent of those in Portugal, Denmark and Switzerland.
 While established publishers have been dabbling with free papers for some time, the latest start-ups represent a new stage in the development of the market, said Aura Iordan, business analyst at the newspaper association. The publishers had started free sheets primarily for defensive reasons, to fend off the threat from the likes of Metro. But now, she said, they view free dailies as a possible source of profit. 
 Metro, which has grown from a single paper in Stockholm into a sprawling publisher of 69 editions in 93 cities, turned profitable on an operating basis this year, after years of heavy investment in expansion. The company has moved into 21 countries, including the United States, where The New York Times Company has invested in a Metro paper in Boston.
 With its broad presence in European urban centers, Metro can offer advertisers ''pan-regional'' packages, which provide the fastest sales growth, said Wilf Maunoir, head of research at Metro International, based in London. Overall sales grew 16 percent in the first half of this year, at constant exchange rates, and that kind of growth has made other publishers take notice.
 News International, the British newspaper division of the News Corporation, said last week that it planned to start a free afternoon paper, Thelondonpaper, on Sept. 18, with a print run of 400,000 copies. It will be distributed in central London by 700 old-style hawkers, following a model pursued by a free London business daily, City A.M.
 Thelondonpaper will go head-to-head with The Evening Standard, a paid-for afternoon paper that recently started supplementing its falling circulation with an early-afternoon free version. The Standard's owner, Associated Newspapers, also publishes Metro, a free morning paper unrelated to the Metro International publications, which is distributed in the London Underground. 
 The Underground is expected to award a contract soon for an afternoon free paper to be distributed in the subway system. Deals like these help the free papers reach the young, urban audiences that advertisers find most desirable, at a low cost.
 But the cost of distribution will rise as more free papers crowd into the market, Mr. Bakker said. A number of deals with European public transportation systems are set to expire soon, and when they come up for renewal, transit operators are likely to try to squeeze more money out of the papers, he said.
 As free papers face increasing competition, some are experimenting with distribution methods. Dagsbrun, an Icelandic publisher, has announced plans to start dropping a free paper on doorsteps in Denmark, after creating a joint-venture delivery operation with the Danish postal service. 
 In the United States, Clarity Media Group, controlled by the Denver-based billionaire Philip F. Anschutz, has already begun home delivery of free papers under the Examiner name in the Baltimore, Washington and San Francisco areas.
 As free papers continue to spring up, some markets are showing signs of saturation. In Spain, where four free papers compete nationally, analysts say at least one is likely to fail, as hundreds of thousands of copies -- out of a total of more than four million -- go unread.
 To survive, free papers have to keep their editorial costs extremely low. Ms. Iordan said less than 10 percent of their spending typically went toward journalism, for example, compared with 20 percent to 40 percent for conventional newspapers.
 But publishers of free papers say the editorial mix, heavily weighted toward entertainment and other light fare, with plenty of photos and graphics, appeals to young readers and to people who otherwise would not pick up a newspaper at all.
 ''You have to give the readers what they want,'' said Jose A. Martinez Soler, chief executive and founder of 20 Minutos, Spain's first big free paper, now owned by Schibsted, a Norwegian publisher that competes with Metro International in many markets.
 In France, a free paper recently begun by the industrialist Vincent Bollore, called Direct Soir, has taken an even lighter approach, focusing on entertainment and night life, for instance. A spokesman said the paper hoped to achieve a circulation of one million by 2009, although it was not expected to be profitable for six or seven years.
 Separately, Mr. Bollore is said to be in talks with Le Monde on possibly starting a morning free paper in Paris, perhaps linked to a network of free papers published in other French cities. Le Monde is reportedly vying with Le Figaro, which has also drawn up plans for a free paper in cooperation with the broadcaster M6.
 While France has become fertile ground for free papers, paid-for German newspapers have managed to resist the incursion. An attempt by Schibsted to start a 20 Minuten in Cologne failed in 2001 when Axel Springer, owner of the Bild tabloid, and another German publisher, DuMont Schauberg, rushed their own free papers into print and won the ensuing war of attrition.
 Now Holtzbrinck may be ready to test the market for free papers. According to German news reports, it plans to distribute 70,000 copies of a free business tabloid in financial districts, starting Monday. The company did not return calls requesting details.
 Edda Fels, a spokeswoman for Axel Springer, said the company was keeping an eye on Holtzbrinck. If any publisher moves directly to undercut Bild, which sells nearly four million copies, she said, Springer will respond as it did in Cologne, bringing out a rival free paper ''within days.''
 ''We are convinced that good journalism should be paid for,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In June, young women in Paris handed out copies of Direct Soir, a new free daily started by a French industrialist, Vincent Bollore. (Photo by Jacques Brinon/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%) Newspapers; Newspapers; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FREE SAS (92%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); NEWS CORP (71%); VERLAGSGRUPPE GEORG VON HOLTZBRINCK GMBH (69%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%); INVESTMENT AB KINNEVIK (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Metro International; News Corp; Le Monde (French Newspaper) ; Figaro (Newspaper); Verlagsgruppe Georg Von Holtzbrinck

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); NWS (NASDAQ) (71%); NWS (ASX) (71%); PANASONIC (NSE) (60%); KINV.B (STO) (58%); KINV.A (STO) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: VINCENT BOLLORE (58%) Eric Pfanner

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) FRANCE (98%); EUROPE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); DENMARK (79%); NETHERLANDS (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) Europe; France; Great Britain; Germany

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



133 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

A SALE AT FORBES -- The Forbes family has sold a significant minority stake in a newly formed company, Forbes Media -- which includes Forbes magazine, the Forbes.com Web site and a number of smaller media properties -- to Elevation Partners, a private equity group. [C1.] 


EXPECTING A PAUSE -- After a string of 17 consecutive interest rate increases, the Federal Reserve may pause this week in its long campaign of monetary tightening, which has lifted the benchmark federal funds rate to 5.25 percent, from 1 percent in June 2004. At least that is what most investors have come to believe. [C1.]

CLERKS ON THE WEB -- Internet retailers are increasingly adding online chat specialists who lurk in the background and wait for signs that someone needs just the slightest nudge to buy an item. Paco Underhill, right, a retailing consultant, said: ''Making this process social is important, because the acquisition of goods has never been just about the acquisition of goods. There's always been a social element to it.'' Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C9.]

GOOGLE AD DEAL -- Google has struck a deal to allow Web site owners to put video clips from Viacom, including ''SpongeBob SquarePants'' and MTV's ''Laguna Beach: The Real Orange County,'' on their pages. The clips will be accompanied by advertising, with Viacom, Google and site owners dividing ad revenue. [C1.]

THE FADING PICTURE TUBE -- The bulky, squarish, heavy picture tube is heading for the dustbin of history much faster than anyone expected. This year, the number of TV models in the United States that use glass cathode-ray tubes to produce an image has been reduced sharply. By next year, even fewer C.R.T. televisions will be made, and fewer retailers will sell them. [C1.]

MOVIE MARKETING, TRANSLATED -- As Hollywood increasingly looks overseas to bolster the bottom line, studios are finding that the rules that apply to movie marketing and distribution in the United States -- calling for a barrage of talk-show interviews and television advertising -- do not necessarily translate in Hamburg, Tokyo or Moscow. [C1.]

DEBATING WIKIPEDIA'S FUTURE -- As hard-core Wikipedia contributors gathered during the weekend to consider the next phase of the online encyclopedia's life cycle, Jimmy Wales, the site's founder, said that the emphasis going forward would be on quality, not quantity. [C4.]

FREE PAPERS IN EUROPE -- When Metro International, a publisher of free newspapers, moved into France four years ago, established competitors cried foul. Now Metro and other free papers are fixtures of the French cityscape, reflecting a broader shift across Europe, as upstart free papers continue their rapid growth. And publishers of existing papers, casting about for any way to retain readers, are increasingly turning to giveaways. [C6.]

SATIRE STARTS A FEUD -- A satire in a German newspaper aimed at the twin brothers who now head the Polish government has sparked a cross-border feud over the role of the press. [C6.]

AD MAKEOVER AT MONTBLANC -- Montblanc is paying up-and-coming designers to put their names, and their clothing, on a new crop of ads appearing in the September issue of Vogue. It is a May-December relationship, in which Montblanc, the venerable company famed for its high-end pens, will share glossy ad space with youthful designers whose mere presence adds an element of cool. Advertising. [C6.]

NEW TERRITORY FOR CABLE -- The biggest names in cable and satellite television are poised to get into mobile phone and wireless data services. [C8.]

CLAMORING TO GET INSIDE CUBA -- With one of the biggest stories in Cuban history now unfolding, many news organizations in the United States are scrambling to cover events in a Communist country that bars most American reporters. [C5.]

CHAIN BUYS COLLEGE PAPER -- Last week The Tallahassee Democrat, a daily paper owned by Gannett, announced that it had purchased a college newspaper. Media industry analysts said that it seemed to be the first time that a college paper had been bought by a major chain. [C5.]

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FILM (87%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (86%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORBES INC (91%); GOOGLE INC (84%); VIACOM INC (55%); INVESTMENT AB KINNEVIK (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); KINV.B (STO) (50%); KINV.A (STO) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: JIMMY WALES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



134 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Cable and Satellite TV Set Their Sights on Airwaves

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL and KEN BELSON

 BODY:
In the telecommunications business, it seems everyone wants to do everything. Now the biggest names in cable and satellite television are poised to get into mobile phone and wireless data services.
 On Wednesday, Time Warner, Comcast, Cox Communications, EchoStar Communications and DirecTV, a unit of the News Corporation, will be among the 168 qualified bidders in the government's multibillion-dollar auction of radio spectrum, that precious commodity that allows voice calls and data to be sent over the airwaves.
But these companies are not necessarily planning to use those frequencies for TV signals. Rather, they appear to be preparing to battle AT&T, Verizon Communications and other companies that sell traditional phone lines, broadband connections and wireless services -- and are now diving into television.
 Though the cable and satellite providers declined to discuss their strategies, many analysts expect them to buy at least enough spectrum to build networks that will allow them to sell wireless Internet connections and mobile phone services. 
 That would let the cable companies and, to a lesser degree, the satellite companies, complete a decade-long transformation: instead of just selling packages of TV channels, they are becoming one-stop shops with a full line of communications products.
 ''The nontraditional players will be the main bidders,'' said Sharon Armbrust, an analyst at Kagan Research. ''It's a hole in their game plan they need to fill.''
 An alliance that includes DirecTV and EchoStar has put the most money into a deposit for the bidding, more than $972 million. Another alliance, led by Comcast, Cox, Time Warner Cable and others, has put down $638 million. T-Mobile, Cingular Wireless and Verizon Wireless have made separate deposits.
 To counter the cable and satellite companies, cellphone companies are expected to add to their stores of spectrum, particularly in cities where their networks get the most use. They may also bid up the price of some of the 1,122 licenses on sale to make it more expensive for their rivals to gain a foothold in an already intensely competitive market, analysts said.
 Whoever wins the auctions, the mobile phone industry is at a crossroads. Now that nearly three out of every four Americans have cellphones, new subscriber growth is starting to slow and competition to retain customers and find new ones is intensifying.
 As one indicator, newcomers like ESPN Mobile and Helio -- which run over the Sprint Nextel network rather than operate their own -- have so far found it tough to gain traction, analysts said.
 Their challenges have raised questions about whether new entrants can survive in an already crowded market. They have also cast doubt on whether sophisticated data plans that let users download music, send e-mail and watch television are worth the investment.
 Verizon Wireless, which has spent years and invested billions of dollars in its data services, is just starting to see the benefits. It brought in more than $1 billion from such services in the second quarter, nearly twice as much as in the second quarter of 2005. Cingular and Sprint have similar services up and running, making it tough for new entrants. It also means that adding more spectrum is a luxury rather than a necessity for the three largest wireless carriers.
 ''We will always look at spectrum,'' said Doreen A. Toben, chief financial officer at Verizon Communications. ''But we are in good shape through 2010, so there is no gun to our head to buy now.''
 Verizon and other big carriers may tread lightly in this auction and instead focus on an auction scheduled for 2008, analysts said. That spectrum, now used by broadcasters, is better suited to the types of video services mobile phone carriers are keen to offer.
 However, T-Mobile, the No. 4 player in the mobile market and a unit of Deutsche Telekom, does not offer many of these so-called third-generation services. It is expected to be an eager buyer of spectrum in this round so it can introduce services to catch up to its larger rivals.
 ''T-Mobile is quite spectrum-constrained in quite a few markets,'' said Roger Entner, a telecommunications analyst at Ovum Research. ''They desperately need that spectrum.''
 The outcome of the auction is not likely to be known for weeks because the format allows for many rounds of bids. But it is unusual for its size and scope. The blocks of spectrum for sale -- many of which were reserved for the military and other government agencies -- stretch across the country, so they represent a rare chance for newcomers to quickly offer nationwide service.
 Analyst estimates of how much the auction could raise for the Treasury vary widely, from $7 billion to $21.5 billion, which means it has the potential to surpass the $16.8 billion worth of bids in 2000 and 2001. The average paid per license, though, is unlikely to surpass the prices paid during the height of the dot-com boom, when some companies overbid and went bankrupt.
 Some analysts also said the bidding might be tempered by the slumping values of wireless stocks and fears that the industry is already overcrowded.
 Still, dozens of smaller and regional companies are expected to bid as they try to cover rural areas and expand into potentially lucrative services offering ultrahigh-speed wireless Internet connections, particularly in less-populated areas of the country.
 But the risks for them are high. Even after buying spectrum, they will need to build cellphone towers and other network equipment, work with handset makers to develop phones and products, and market their services -- all while giants like Cingular and Verizon counter their moves.
 ''This is not a mom-and-pop business,'' Mr. Entner said. ''You need billions of dollars to play this game. It's quite likely that a few of the bidders of this auction will go out of business and the spectrum will be reallocated.''
 Still, the auction could be good for consumers because new companies might get into the game and offer new services, increasing competition and bringing down prices, said Ranjan Mishra, a telecommunications industry analyst with Mercer Management Consulting.
 ''Given you have so many new players, you'll have at least one new infrastructure player in each of the major markets,'' he said.
 The impact of giving consumers another choice for wireless service is unclear, though. The amount customers spend each month on cellphone plans has leveled off, even as carriers have introduced new services on networks that cost billions of dollars to build.
 ''There's always a limit to how many guys can survive,'' said Bret Sewell, chief executive of Venturi Wireless, which helps carriers offer multimedia services. ''Some more competition will be good, but the incumbents are in the strongest position after many years of figuring out mobility.''
 Despite the questionable economics, cable and satellite companies feel they have no choice but to participate in the auction. Cellphones are clearly a favorite with consumers, and companies that do not offer wireless services -- even money-losing ones -- risk losing customers to the Bell companies and their wireless units, Cingular, owned by AT&T and BellSouth, and Verizon Wireless, a joint venture of Verizon Communications and Vodafone. 
 For their part, the satellite companies, which have limited broadband services and no phone products, are expected to use any spectrum they buy to offer wireless broadband access, Mr. Mishra said.
 ''If EchoStar and DirecTV get the spectrum, they're likely to build broadband networks and competehead-to-head with fiber,'' the ground-based networks owned by cable and phone companies, he said. The cable companies now offer cellphone service only by piggybacking on Sprint's network. Cable companies and Sprint have been working for months to develop products that will, say, let customers program their digital video recorders from their wireless handsets.
 In the auction, an alliance of cable companies that includes Comcast, Cox and Time Warner Cable has joined with Sprint to bid for spectrum. Analysts say Sprint could provide expertise in operating wireless networks, while the cable companies could focus on how to combine their existing products with mobile phones without having to rely on Sprint's network.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''What the Cell Carriers Control''Cingular currently holds the largest share of the wireless phone and data spectrum. The Federal Communications Commission, which allocates these slices of radio frequency, will auction another 90 megahertz this month. Analysts say that T-Mobile is likely to be an aggressive bidder.Graph tracks share of wireless spectrum (average in top 50 markets) in megahertz for:CINGULAR: 59SPRINT NEXTEL: 54VERIZON WIRELESS: 42T-MOBILE: 26Graph also tracks the average in top 10 markets:New YorkLos AngelesChicagoSan FranciscoPhiladelphiaDallas-Fort WorthDetroitHoustonWashingtonAtlantaSan Francisco includes Oakland and San Jose.Philadelphia includes Wilmington, Del., and Trenton.(Sources by UBS Securities
 Federal Communications Commission)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE TELEVISION (94%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (77%); INTERNET AUDIO (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); BROADBAND (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Auctions; Voice-Over-Internet Protocol (Voip); Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (95%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (93%); DISH NETWORK CORP (92%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (90%); COX COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); NEWS CORP (84%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (62%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (54%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%) Time Warner Inc; Comcast Inc; Cox Communications Inc; Echostar Communications Corp; Directv Group Inc; At&t Corp; Verizon Communications

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (95%); CCV (NYSE) (95%); DISH (NASDAQ) (92%); VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); NWS (NASDAQ) (84%); NWS (ASX) (84%); S (NYSE) (62%); TWC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%)

PERSON: Matt Richtel; Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



135 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: In Yonkers, Destroying Public Housing to Save It

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: YONKERS, Aug. 5 

 BODY:
There is a concrete wall by the playground at Mulford Gardens that is almost as tall as the squat brick buildings that surround it. Low on the left corner of the wall, the names of 10 young men are written in black spray paint under the words, ''Rest in peace.'' They died in and around Mulford Gardens, some of them shot and stabbed by rivals in the many spurts of violence that have defined life in this public housing complex to the world outside.
 From behind the sheer curtain that graces her living room window, Maxine Williams gazed at the wall on a recent steamy afternoon and talked about what had become of her home, a complex of 17 connecting three-story buildings in the city's southwest. There was once a children's pool on what is now a patch of dirt behind the wall, she said; there were flower beds and trees on the grassy slopes, but now, there are only weeds.
Ms. Williams, who is 64, said that when she moved to the 550-unit Mulford Gardens with her two young children in 1974, she used to wash clothes late at night, in a laundry room closed long ago because of vandalism. ''Today,'' she said, ''I'm too scared to walk out of my house after it gets dark.'' 
 With its leaky steam pipes, frayed electrical wires and crumbling facades, Mulford Gardens, built in 1939 as one of country's first public housing developments, looks frail. After spending millions of dollars over the years on patchwork repairs, officials in this city of 200,000 on the Hudson River have concluded that the only way to save the project is to knock it down and build it anew.
 ''The housing just got tired,'' Mayor Philip A. Amicone said. ''It came to a point that it's not worth fixing it anymore.''
 If all goes as planned, Mulford Gardens' 480 families will move out and the bulldozers will move in early next year, when demolition is set to begin. Plans call for 469 new homes by the end of 2010 -- most on the 12-acre Mulford Gardens site, with others nearby. 
 The $150 million project, financed in part by the federal Hope VI program, aimed at improving slumlike housing projects, signals a new approach to housing the poor in Yonkers, where a desegregation battle raged for more than two decades. The new housing will be a mix of apartments, town houses and row houses for both low- and middle-income families rather than for just the poor. The project is also expected to enhance the city's ambitious $3.1 billion plan to redevelop and revitalize its nearby downtown.
 The families who live at Mulford Gardens are eligible to live in the new homes, so long as they are up to date with the rent, meet income guidelines and avoid legal troubles, said Peter Smith, executive director of the city's Municipal Housing Authority, which is overseeing the project. About 60 percent of Mulford Gardens' residents plan to return, according to a recent Housing Authority survey of its residents, though Mr. Smith says he believes some of those will settle elsewhere.
 Ms. Williams, who is diabetic and has high-blood pressure, wants to stay in Yonkers and hopes to move to a building for the elderly that will be constructed as part of the new housing development. Meanwhile, she will move to another nearby housing project. But many of her neighbors plan to leave the city, never to return.
 ''There's a lot of sadness, a lot of anxiety in this place'' said Tanya Battle, a petite 39-year-old who has lived at Mulford Gardens for 10 years. ''It's like other people's depression is contagious. It brings you down.''
 Ms. Battle and her 7-year-old daughter, Zaryah, are looking for a house in Maryland, where Ms. Battle's oldest brother lives. ''I have my fears and concerns, but I'm looking forward to it,'' she said. ''I know what to expect if I stay here, which is not much. And I know there's a lot more for me and my daughter out there.'' 
 The goal of the Hope VI program is to transform distressed public housing projects into desirable places to live, help residents find jobs and move some of them into homes in better neighborhoods by providing rent assistance. Dozens of communities have taken advantage of the program since it began in 1993 -- from Far Rockaway, Queens, to Atlantic City, San Francisco, Washington and Chicago, which has razed nearly half of its high-rise public housing units since 1996. 
 In those and other cities, the new buildings are attractive, yards are neat and streets have sidewalks that invite neighborly interaction. And the residents who relocated generally moved to neighborhoods that are less poor, more diverse and markedly safer than where they used to live, according to several studies of the Hope VI program. 
 ''There's a wide variance in the Hope VI experiences, but in many cases, there has been an incredible turnaround,'' said Bruce Katz, director of the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution. 
 ''In many cities, Hope VI stands apart as the most successful neighborhood revitalization effort of the past 30 to 40 years because it intervened in public housing developments that stood at the root of the distress in certain neighborhoods,'' Mr. Katz said.
 Each family at Mulford Gardens has been assigned a relocation counselor, who helps them figure out where to go, when to move and whether to return. For those who want to stay in Yonkers, finding a new home can be daunting in a region with some of the nation's highest housing prices. The average household income at Mulford Gardens is $16,500, roughly 15 percent below the federal poverty level of $20,000 for a family of four. 
 ''This move is going to make a lot of people homeless,'' said Georgianna Rouse, 51, who has lived at Mulford Gardens since 1978 and is still not sure where to go.
 Essentially, residents have two choices: move to a local public housing unit or request a housing voucher that allows them to rent homes in Yonkers or elsewhere in the country for 30 to 40 percent of their monthly gross income. (The voucher covers the difference between what the renter can pay and the actual rent.)
 So far, about 100 families have moved out of Mulford Gardens, said Mr. Smith of the housing authority. Some decided to reunite with distant relatives while taking advantage of lower housing costs in other states. ''We hope that some people will benefit in that they will move to another community, find better jobs and move out of public housing for good,'' he said. 
 In early June, Melinda A. Williams, 54, who had retired as a teacher's aide, came home to find a notice under her door, telling her that she had 90 days to leave Mulford Gardens, where she has lived since 1965 and raised two children on her own. At first, she thought about staying in Yonkers, but she soon realized that she could find a bigger, better place in Raleigh, N.C., where her daughter lives.
 ''I'm going to miss this place,'' Ms. Williams said, sitting on a folding chair amid a group of neighbors who gathered recently for a farewell barbecue.
 ''Even though it doesn't look as good as it used to, we always had hot water and heat in the winter, and we always had each other,'' she said. ''Over here, neighbors are family and you're never, never alone.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 9, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with an article on Monday about plans to tear down the Mulford Gardens public housing complex in Yonkers and replace it with new housing misstated the given name of a resident. She is Zaryah Allen, not Zarya.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On a playground wall by Mulford Gardens in Yonkers is a mural honoring 10 young men who died in or around the complex, some of them shot or stabbed. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Tanya Battle, 39, watching her daughter, Zarya, 7, play at Mulford Gardens, is looking to leave the project and find a house in Maryland. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B6)Map of Yonkers shows the location of Mulford Gardens: The 17-building, three-story Mulford Gardens was built in 1939. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FAMILY (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); VANDALISM (77%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%); BUDGETS (69%); MAYORS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%) Housing; Public Housing; Finances; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Demolition

PERSON: Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%) Yonkers (NY); United States

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



136 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 824 words

PERSON: Murray Bookchin

HEADLINE: Murray Bookchin, 85, Writer, Activist and Ecology Theorist

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Murray Bookchin, a writer, teacher and activist who began his political odyssey as a Communist, became an anarchist and then metamorphosed into an influential theorist on ecology, died July 30 at his home in Burlington, Vt. He was 85.
 The cause was complications of a malfunctioning aortic valve, said his daughter, Debbie Bookchin.
Mr. Bookchin's environmental philosophy emerged from his leftist background. He argued that capitalism, with what he characterized as dominating hierarchies and insistence on economic growth, necessarily destroyed nature. This put him at odds with ecologists who favored a more spiritual view and with environmentalists dedicated to gradual reform. 
 ''Capitalism can no more be 'persuaded' to limit growth than a human being can be 'persuaded' to stop breathing,'' he wrote in ''Remaking Society'' (1990), one of his 27 books.
 Another book, ''Our Synthetic Environment'' (1962), raised issues about pesticides similar to those addressed by Rachel Carson in ''Silent Spring'' six months later. A decade earlier, Mr. Bookchin had warned about the dangers of chemicals in food. He also wrote under pseudonyms. His popular book ''Small Is Beautiful'' was published under the name Lewis Herber.
 Mr. Bookchin's writings had their strongest influence on Green Parties in the United States and Europe and on the radical edges of the environmental movement. His emphasis on human society and economic systems put him at odds with ''deep ecologists,'' who believe that humans have arrogantly usurped their position as just another species to wreak environmental havoc.
 ''Although he claims to be an anarchist, he writes like a Stalinist thug,'' Gary Snyder, the poet and an adherent of deep ecology, said of Mr. Bookchin in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1989.
 Mr. Bookchin, in turn, called deep ecologists ''eco-fascists,'' partly because they wanted to limit the population radically.
 In 1971, he started the Institute for Social Ecology in Plainfield, Vt., to further his ideas, and began teaching at Ramapo College of New Jersey, where he was later given tenure.
 Though criticism came most naturally to him, Mr. Bookchin also offered a utopian vision: he hoped that nation states could be replaced by a confederation of independent municipalities, each governed by the equivalent of a New England town meeting. 
 In 1992, The Independent, the London newspaper, referred to him as ''the foremost Green philosopher of the age.'' It called his 1982 book ''The Ecology of Freedom'' one of the ''classic statements of contemporary anarchism.''
 Murray Bookchin was born in the Crotona Park section of the Bronx on Jan. 14, 1921. His father, Nathan, had been a farmer and active in the revolution against the czar in Russia.
 Nathan, who worked as a hatter, and Rose, Murray's mother, joined the Industrial Workers of the World, the radical union. Mrs. Bookchin knew Big Bill Haywood, its legendary leader.
 At 9, Murray joined a Communist youth organization but drifted away from the Communists in 1937 because he disliked their authoritarianism. He was expelled from the party in 1939 for Trotskyist-anarchist tendencies. He later rejected Trotskyism.
 Mr. Bookchin, who never went to college, worked in a foundry and as a labor organizer in New Jersey. In World War II, he served in the Army. He had the odd assignment, for a young radical, of helping to guard the gold at Fort Knox. He was an autoworker for General Motors after his discharge and helped organize a large strike.
 He began writing a steady stream of articles under pseudonyms. His companion of many years, Janet Biehl, said leftists at the time commonly used pseudonyms to hide from anti-Communists. Ms. Biehl said he continued using pseudonyms into the 1960's because it had become ''second nature.''
 In a bibliography of his works prepared by Ms. Biehl in 1996, Mr. Bookchin renounced articles he wrote in the early 1950's under the pseudonym M. S. Shiloh, in which he argued that the Nazis' slaughter of Jews had been prompted by labor surpluses rather than by anti-Semitism. 
 In addition to Ms. Biehl, Mr. Bookchin is survived by his daughter, Debbie, and his son, Joseph, both of Burlington; his brother, Robert, of Pelham, N.Y.; his former wife, the former Beatrice Appelstein of Burlington; and one granddaughter.
 In 1980, Mr. Bookchin told a federal jury that he was perplexed as to why the Federal Bureau of Investigation broke into his apartment in the East Village of Manhattan in 1973. The F.B.I had been hunting for fugitive members of the Weather Underground.
 ''I hated the Weathermen,'' he testified.
 One of the two F.B.I. officials convicted for violating the constitutional rights of Mr. Bookchin and others was W. Mark Felt, the bureau's No. 2 man at the time of the break-in. Last year, Mr. Felt was revealed as Deep Throat, the secret source of the Washington Post reporter Bob Woodward in his Watergate reporting.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about the writer and theorist on ecology Murray Bookchin misstated the author of the book ''Small Is Beautiful.'' It was the economist E. F. Schumacher, not Mr. Bookchin writing under the pseudonym Lewis Herber.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Murray Bookchin in 1991. (Photo by Ludwig Rauch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PESTICIDES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); US GREEN PARTY (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%)

Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (88%) VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

CATEGORY: Books And Magazines

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



137 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: TAXES OUTSTRIP INCOME GROWTH IN THE SUBURBS

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN; Jill P. Capuzzo contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Property taxes grew two to three times faster than personal income from 2000 to 2004 in the suburbs surrounding New York City, a sharp reversal from the 1990's, when incomes soared and property taxes climbed more modestly, a review of statistics by The New York Times has shown.
 In Nassau County, the tax collections rose 29 percent from 2000 to 2004, while total personal income went up only 11 percent, according to data from the state and the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis. In Bergen County, N.J., property taxes jumped 26 percent, three times the growth rate of income, about the same ratio as in Westchester.
 And in the sharpest rise in the region, property taxes soared 41 percent in Somerset County, N.J., while income inched up only 5 percent. 
 Most states experienced a similar squeeze, data compiled recently by the Census Bureau shows. After years of moderate growth, property taxes started climbing steeply when the steam went out of the stock market in 2000, slowing income growth. Nationwide, property taxes grew 28 percent from 2000 to 2004, though income went up only 16 percent.
 But it is in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut that the reversal has been most dizzying, with the states faring better than the nation in the good years and worse since 2000. 
 ''In 1997, my taxes were $2,600; now they're $8,000,'' said Dan Mackey, 42, a credit manager who lives in Somerset, N.J. ''My salary certainly hasn't tripled in the last nine years, and I don't know anyone's that has.''
 In the suburbs of New York City, as in many other places across the country, property taxes are the main revenue source for municipal and county governments and, most expensively, their schools. But while property taxes are principally a local issue, they have major political ramifications in state capitols. 
 And so this sharp reversal in income and property tax growth helps to explain the building murmurs of a tax revolt not only in the New York region but around the country.
 ''People's wealth may be growing if they own a house, but the census data show that their income isn't keeping up with their tax bills,'' said Gerald Prante, an economist with the Tax Foundation, a Washington-based group that favors lower taxes.
 Consider the flurry of activity in the last year alone. New Jersey recently opened a special legislative session with the mandate of finding ways to reduce property taxes, a clear barometer of the pressure homeowners have begun to exert on the state's leaders.
 ''It is all too clear to everyone: The property tax burden is simply overwhelming our citizens and their economic well-being,'' Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey said to the State Legislature on July 28 as it gathered for the special session. ''Our citizens pay through the roof for a tax that is imposed without any regard to income or ability to pay.''
 Earlier this year, legislators in South Carolina and Texas -- two states in which the rise in property taxes has outstripped that of income by a wide margin -- approved measures to relieve the burden with rebates or caps. And in Idaho, the governor has called a special session of the Legislature to address the issue.
 In the session that recently ended, the Assembly in New York State -- where income growth from 2000 to 2004 was among the lowest in the country -- increased school aid and approved property tax rebates that mainly benefit suburban homeowners.
 ''Politicians are feeling tense about this property tax situation,'' said E. J. McMahon, the director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative fiscal policy research group. ''Both the leading candidates for governor are raising the issue. Everyone feels they need a strong appeal to property taxpayers.''
 New York City property taxes are rising rapidly as well, up 47 percent since 2000, compared with just 5 percent from 1995 to 2000. But city property taxes are lower than those in the suburbs because most of the city's revenue comes from income and sales taxes. 
 In each area the numbers represent total property tax collections, including both commercial and residential, and total personal income. Changes in the figures can reflect growth in the number of properties or population. 
 Ten years ago, homeowners could more easily afford the taxes. In the 1990's, income growth in the United States easily outpaced the rise in property tax collections, and nowhere more comfortably than in the suburbs of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
 Ray Kulberda, 67, an accountant in Somerset, said he was not too alarmed as he watched the taxes on his four-bedroom Cape Cod home rise from $3,400 in 1996 to $4,500 in 2001. Mr. Kulberda had a good job in the late 90's, as financial director for an insurance company, and the tax increase amounted to about 5 percent a year, a rate he called ''not too bad.''
 Those were good years across the region. While the economy thrived, local governments kept property tax increases low, sometimes with the help of state tax rebates. From 1995 to 2000, personal income in the three states rose 33 percent, far outstripping the 14 percent increase in property taxes. 
 ''In the 1990's, we had this tremendous bubble in the stock market that boosted incomes everywhere, but more so in New York and New Jersey,'' said Irwin Kellner, professor of economics at Hofstra University and the chief economist for North Fork Bank.
 Most places around the country shared in the boom. California's personal income rose 40 percent from 1995 to 2000, Michigan's went up 29 percent, and Pennsylvania's 27 percent. Even West Virginia, which was worse than all but Alaska and Hawaii in personal income growth, experienced a 21 percent increase.
 With rising incomes came a flood of revenue from income and sales taxes. In New York and New Jersey, some of the states' bounty was funneled to local governments in the form of increased aid and property tax rebates. In New York, for instance, the state enacted the School Tax Relief program, or STAR, which saved homeowners billions of dollars and provided billions to school districts starting in 1997.
 In New Jersey, the state improved its fiscal health by slowing the growth of local government in the 1990's, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, partly as a result of restrictions imposed after a recession in the early 1990's.
 ''New Jersey had tremendous discipline in government employment expansion compared to the nation during the 1990's, which led to slower property tax growth,'' Dr. Hughes said.
 Throughout the region, the result was a period of remarkable stability in property taxes.
 In New York, counties and municipalities alike kept property tax increases under the annual inflation rate of 2.5 percent from 1995 to 2000, according to an analysis by the state's comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, that was released in April. 
 But since the stock market cooled in 2000, there has been a sharp reversal: Income growth slowed, stopped or in some counties actually declined for a year or two before recovering in 2004. Worse yet, property taxes began to soar. From 2000 to 2004, property taxes in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut rose twice as fast as income.
 In Somerset, Mr. Kulberda said that his taxes started to rise steeply in 2001, and that now they had reached $6,600 a year, a jump of 50 percent in five years. Mr. Kulberda, who was laid off in 2003, is having a hard time finding work now, but he can't afford to retire. ''I have to keep working in order to cover the property taxes,'' he said.
 Of course, the tapering ofincome growth had a trickle-down effect: slower growth in state revenue and a corresponding downturn in state aid to local governments.
 ''State governments increase their aid during economic booms that generate surges in income and sales taxes,'' said Mr. McMahon, the Empire Center director. ''But when the boom wears off, the first spigot they turn off is school aid. And the schools shift to the property taxpayer to make up the difference.''
 In addition, the government discipline of the 1990's in New Jersey gave way to bloat in 2001, Dr. Hughes said. ''Post-2000, New Jersey's government employment grew twice as fast as the nation,'' he said. ''Local government employment, including education, has been a key driver of higher property taxes.''
 Some form of this boom-bust mathematics has been going on throughout much of the country: Census figures show that 32 of the 50 states experienced more robust growth in income than in taxes in the 90's, only to see the tables turn since 2000.
 Bob Vena, 63, a plumbing contractor in Hazlet, N.J., has been a beneficiary of the real estate boom. He bought his home from his parents 25 years ago, and he also owns a bungalow in Matawan. Today the houses are worth many times what he paid for them.
 But the taxes on his homes have been rising steeply, he said, and now total $13,500. Business is good enough that he can afford them, Mr. Vena said, though it is becoming a strain. He said there was little he could do to increase the income from his plumbing business to keep pace.
 ''Eventually,'' he said, ''I hope to sell everything and just get out of New Jersey.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Zackery Butts, top, paid his property taxes last week to Patty Berg in Freehold, N.J. Ray Kulberda, above, says taxes on his four-bedroom home in Somerset, N.J., have climbed 50 percent in the past five years. At 67, Mr. Kulberda, an accountant, says he cannot afford to retire. (Photographs by Aaron Houston for The New York Times)(pg. B6)Graph: ''A Rising Burden''The property tax rate, as a percentage of income, increased after 2000.Graph tracks property tax rate as a percentage of income for the following areas since 1998:SUFFOLK COUNTYNASSAUESSEXBERGENMORRISSOMERSETFAIRFIELD*U. S. AVERAGENEW YORK CITYWESTCHESTER*1998 data not available.(Sources by State governments
Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Census Bureau)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (90%); SUBURBS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CENSUS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CITIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%) 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (55%) Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City Metropolitan Area ; Nassau County (NY); Bergen County (NJ); Westchester County (NY); Somerset County (NJ); New Jersey; South Carolina; Texas; Idaho

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



138 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Wlingi Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Livening Up Today's Lesson, Courtesy of Uncle Sam

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: WLINGI, Indonesia, Aug. 3 

 BODY:
In the first-grade classroom of Wening Sripeni, a diminutive teacher in head scarf and neck-to-ankle dress, the 6-year-olds bubble over with answers, a show of hands at every question about an Indonesian family.
 ''That's Grandpa,'' said a voice from the back. 
What does he like to do? ''He likes to read,'' said another.
 Who is this? Ms. Sripeni asked, pointing to a baby with a book in a bathtub. There were a lot of giggles at the juxtaposition of a baby and a book. 
 ''So you can see the baby likes to do the same thing as Grandpa,'' Ms. Sripeni said. ''Reading is very important.'' 
 Such back and forth, and especially mirth, are unusual in Indonesia's schools, where rows of desks, a blackboard and chalk, and a stern teacher dispensing strict discipline are the norm. 
 But it is different at this elementary school tucked among the rice fields here in Java, the most-populous island of the world's most populous Muslim nation. This school is participating in a drive by the United States to energize primary education here, starting with 1,000 schools and eventually increasing to more than 2,500, still a tiny percentage of the tens of thousands of elementary schools in Indonesia. 
 Contending that lively lessons, engaged teachers and interested parents can promote tolerance and counteract extreme Islamic views, the Bush administration has made promoting education a focus of assistance to friendly Muslim countries through the United States Agency for International Development. 
 Pakistan, Afghanistan, Egypt and Iraq have all received increased American funds in the last several years for building schools and training teachers and administrators. 
 Indonesia, a moderate Muslim country, was added to the list, American officials said, because of concerns about a growing streak of fundamentalism among graduates of privately run Islamic religious schools, known as pesantren. 
 The effort in Indonesia is different from that in the other countries, American officials said. The money is spent chiefly on training, not bricks and mortar, believing that encouraging good teaching strikes at a more fundamental issue.
 Nearly $9 million has been set aside for creating a version of ''Sesame Street'' with Indonesian characters and situations. It is scheduled to make its debut next year. 
 President Bush personally announced the $157 million, five-year program during a visit to Bali in 2003. There was initial skepticism over whether the money would mean much in the country's famously corrupt education bureaucracy. There was also some concern over the prospect of American meddling in the country's schools. 
 To discourage corruption, no money is provided directly to schools.
 At the outset, the very schools that the United States were most concerned about -- the privately run religious schools that teach about 20 percent of the students -- were declared off limits. The government also said that the Americans were not to change the curriculum. 
 But the government has allowed the Americans to offer their training in state-run religious schools, like the Tegalasri madrasa near here, which receives funds from the Education Ministry as well as the Religious Affairs Department. 
 For the first time, the madrasa, which teaches children from a poor farming community about six miles from Ms. Sripeni's school, got higher scores on the national exam, said Syaiful Ridwan, the principal.
 ''We've gone up from 7.18 to 7.63,'' out of a possible score of 10, he said. Enrollment at the madrasa was increasing, he said, as parents heard about the good results. 
 He said, though, that the American help was not the only factor in the turnaround. The teachers, he said, had also acquired a greater variety of teaching skills by attending training courses. 
 But teachers were motivated by better salaries, he said, made possible by an increase in national school financing. The extra money from the national government had allowed him to increase the lowest salaries from $15 a month to $30, which is still very low.
 Because of the parents' low incomes, lesson materials were sparse at the madrasa, and it was difficult to pay the extra electricity bill to operate five computers daily for one-hour after-school classes. 
 In first grade, Dwi Ernawati, a new teacher struggled to keep the attention of students, who were working in groups of four and five. They were supposed to make simple sentences by gluing tiny letters to a piece of paper.
 Two grandfathers of her students stood at the back of the class as parent helpers, but they seemed not to be of much assistance. 
 In contrast, in Ms. Sripeni's classroom -- in an economically better-off part of the school district and where the Religious Affairs Department is not involved in the school -- two young mothers were on hand. They efficiently passed around paper and kept an eye on the rowdier children. 
 To organize the training of the Indonesian teachers, the United States hired a Washington consulting firm, Research Triangle Institute, which specializes in running American education programs abroad.
 The company hired an American with Indonesian experience to run the teacher training, and he in turn hired a small army of Indonesian educators in the provinces to conduct the training workshops. 
 The training manuals deal with such basics as how to organize a classroom -- in small friendly groups of tables rather than rows -- to how to stimulate classroom discussion to how to study nature. 
 Ms. Sripeni, a 17-year veteran teacher who seemed to have a special vitality all her own, said she liked the ideas sprinkled through the manuals. 
 Her classroom had no blackboard. Instead she had arranged a pastiche of posters: a chart of the professions of the parents; a list of the five religions of Indonesia; the praying times for Muslims; the class attendance record; the ''magic tree'' of family connections. 
 ''The children are very creative,'' Ms. Sripeni said. ''I'm just reacting to their demands. Now their development is very fast. It used to take a long time to get the children to read one sentence. Now they can read a page quite quickly.'' 
 The final test of whether the $157 million has been well invested, educators say, will be whether the new ideas endure. Once the five-year grant is spent, local educators are supposed to be familiar enough with the techniques to continue promoting them, but the outcome is still open to question. 
 Mr. Syaiful, the madrasa principal, has been chosen by the American Embassy in Jakarta to visit the United States, as a reward for his good work. But with reviews of the participating schools not yet complete, there was no decision yet on whether the school would continue to get the teacher training next year.


GRAPHIC: Photos: An American program suggests good teaching may promote change.
 These sixth-grade students attend a Wlingi school where teachers are trained to use active learning methods. (Photographs by Kemal Jufri/Imaji, for The New York Times)Map of Indonesia highlighting Wlingi: Wlingi is a testing site in the most-populous Muslim nation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (88%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); CORRUPTION (62%) 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%) Research Triangle Institute; Agency for International Development (Aid)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Jane Perlez; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (59%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (98%); INDONESIA (97%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (53%) Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



139 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

In Deadliest Day for Israel, 15 Are Killed by Missiles
The deadliest Hezbollah rocket attacks in nearly a month of fighting hit northern Israel, killing 12 army reservists near the Lebanon border and 3 civilians in the port of Haifa. In Lebanon, Israeli airstrikes killed at least 16 people, according to Lebanese officials. A1

Efforts to speed adoption of a draft resolution to halt the fighting between Israel and Hezbollah faltered at the United Nations while sharp criticism of the measure rang out across the Middle East. 
The Security Council, despite enormous pressure to take action in a war that has raged unchecked for 26 days, failed to hold an expected meeting to discuss the measure and schedule a vote. A6

Iraq Murder Hearing Starts
Steven D. Green, a former American soldier who is accused of raping a 14-year-old Iraqi and killing her and three members of her family, told fellow soldiers that ''all Iraqis are bad people'' after his unit began taking casualties, according to testimony in an American military hearing. A9

NATO Toll Rises in Afghanistan
A British soldier was killed by gunfire during an operation in Musa Qala, Afghanistan, a region known for Taliban sympathies, NATO said. The death brings to nine the number of NATO soldiers killed since they formally replaced American forces in southern Afghanistan. A9

Iran to Defy U.N. Resolution
During a news conference, Ali Larijani, Iran's security chief and top nuclear negotiator, said that Iran would defy the United Nations Security Council by refusing to halt its enrichment of uranium by the end of August. He accused the West, of double-dealing by first offering incentives for suspension of its nuclear enrichment program, and then by issuing a threat. A3

Hong Kong Surveillance Bill
Pro-Beijing lawmakers approved legislation that gives broad authority to the police to conduct covert surveillance, including wiretapping phones, bugging homes and offices and monitoring e-mail. The bill passed the 60-member Legislative Council on a vote of 32-0 after pro-democracy lawmakers walked out of the chamber in protest. A4

Mexican Vows More Protests
The presidential candidate Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador vowed that the daily demonstrations supporting his demand for a full recount of the results in last month's presidential race would convene at the courthouse where a special electoral court had denied his request. A3

NATIONAL A10-13

States Expand Rights Of Victims on Self-Defense
In the last year, 15 states have enacted laws that expand the right of self-defense, allowing crime victims to use deadly force in situations that might formerly have subjected them to prosecution for murder. The first of the new laws, which served as a model for the others, took effect in Florida in October. A1

Routine Duty on the Border
For the National Guard troops sent to the United States-Mexican border, their jobs may seem humdrum, but the Border Patrol has claimed some early success as the operation moves into full swing. Critics still question whether the Guard troops are making a big difference. A10

Immigration Hearings Criticized
When House leaders announced their plan to hold 21 immigration hearings in 13 states, they said it demonstrated a commitment to securing the border. But some lawmakers said the schedule of the hearings only heightened their concerns that the Republican leadership was using immigration as a political weapon. A10

Protester Returns to Texas
Cindy Sheehan, the 49-year-old California peace advocate whose son Casey died in Iraq, returned to Crawford, Tex., on the anniversary of her much-publicized march down a winding country road to the Bush ranch, where she asked unsuccessfully to meet the president. A10

Nashville Murder Trial Starts
Perry March, 45, goes on trial, accused of murdering his wife, whose remains have not been found. What began as a missing person report eventually sprawled to Mexico from Tennessee in a tangled skein of cases that riveted Nashville and included a plot to kill Mr. March's in-laws. A12

Local Issues in Montana Race
Jon Tester, left, a 49-year-old farmer and Democratic state senator, in his first run at statewide office, is trying to unseat Senator Conrad Burns in Montana. The nationally watched election a few months ago seemed to be swinging on the issue of Washington's ways and mores, but has now downshifted to local, idiosyncratic Montana issues. A13

SPORTSMONDAY D1-7

Woods Wins Buick Open
Tiger Woods notched the 50th victory of his career, defeating Jim Furyk by three strokes at the Buick Open and finding new ways to build on a reputation that is looming over golf once again. Mr. Woods finished the tournament at 24-under par 264. D1

N.F.L. Owners to Select Boss
With the 32 National Football League owners meeting in Chicago to select the next commissioner, almost everyone is willing to predict who will get the job. But nobody wants to predict how they will arrive at their choice. D2

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Muslims in U.S. Struggle After Serving in Iraq
For Muslim Americans who serve in the United States armed forces the trip home from Iraq has been especially fraught. They were called upon to fight a Muslim enemy alongside comrades who sometimes questioned their loyalty, and then returned home to neighborhoods where the occupation is dismissed as an imperialist crusade. A1

Lieberman Confronts Critics
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman confronted the anger roiling the Democratic Party over Iraq, in an attempt to explain his support for the war and to win back doubting voters in Connecticut before the state primary election tomorrow. A1

Taxes vs. Income in Suburbs
Property taxes grew faster than personal income from 2000 to 2004 in the suburbs of New York City, a reversal from the 1990's, when incomes soared and property taxes climbed more modestly, a review of statistics shows. A1

More Heat-Related Deaths
The number of deaths attributed to last week's sweltering weather rose to 22, and the mayor said the city would study how it could prevent such deaths in future heat waves. B3

ARTS E1-8

Returned Klimts to Be Sold
Four of five paintings by Gustav Klimt that were at the center of a restitution battle will be heading to Christie's for sale this fall, the president of the auction house said. E1

Candidate Seeks Help in Film
Representative Cynthia A. McKinney of Georgia, who had a scuffle with a Capitol police officer last March and is facing tough competition in a Democratic primary vote, has been promoting an award winning documentary that paints her as a progressive heroine, hoping for an increase in her poll numbers. E1

OBITUARIES B8

Susan Butcher
The dog sled racer who won the Iditarod race four times and became a pioneer for women and an influence in the treatment of animals, she was 51. B8

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Google and Viacom Make Deal
Google has struck a deal to allow Web site owners to put video clips from Viacom, one of the biggest creators of television programming, on their pages. C1

Interest Rate Climb May Halt
After 17 consecutive interest rate increases, the Federal Reserve may pause in its campaign of monetary tightening, partly because a weak jobs report offered further evidence that the economy was slowing. C1

Stake in Forbes Media Sold
The family of Malcolm S. Forbes has sold a significant minority stake in Forbes Media, which includes the Forbes magazine, the Forbes.com Web site to Elevation Partners, a private equity group. C1

Movies and Global Markets
Hollywood is looking overseas to bolster the bottom line, and studios are finding that the rules of movie marketing in the United States do not translate in Tokyo or Moscow. C1

Peril of Rear-End Collisions
New crash tests show that many vehicles remain vulnerable in rear-end accidents, although automakers have greatly improved protection for drivers and their passengers in frontal and side-impact collisions. C2

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: A truce for Lebanon; drug-fueled sports superstars; the Brooke Astor effect; next: is hot fudge nonfattening?

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Bridge E6
Crossword E2
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E8
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MURDER (89%); SELF DEFENSE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (85%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); MILITARY COURTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); ESPIONAGE (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); WIRETAPPING (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (62%); INTERNET PRIVACY (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (91%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: ALI LARIJANI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (68%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (96%); LEBANON (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



140 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Alaska Oil Pipeline Problem To Force Large Production Cut

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Aug. 6 

 BODY:
Production at the Prudhoe Bay oil field, half that on the North Slope of Alaska, was being shut down on Sunday after BP Exploration Alaska discovered severe corrosion in a oil transit line. 
 Officials at BP said they did not know how long the field would be off line. ''I don't even know how long it's going to take to shut it down,'' said Tom Williams, BP's senior tax and royalty counsel. The company said the process could take days.
Once the field is shut down oil production will be reduced by 400,000 barrels a day. That is close to 8 percent of American oil production as of May 2006, or about 2.6 percent of the daily American supply, which includes imports, according to data from the United States Energy Information Administration.
 Such a reduction would have a major impact on oil prices, said Tetsu Emori, chief commodities strategist at Mitsui Bussan Futures in Tokyo. But Mr. Emori said it was uncertain how much prices could change until details about production loss were known. Victor Shum, an energy analyst with Purvin and Gertz in Singapore, said, however, that he expected the impact to be minimal.
 ''The U.S. market is actually well-supplied; crude inventories are very high,'' he said. ''So while this won't have any immediate impact on U.S. supplies, the market is in very high anxiety.'' 
 Light, sweet crude for September delivery was up 36 cents to $74.95 a barrel in midmorning Asian electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Robert A. Malone, chairman of BP America, said the field would not resume operating until the company and government regulators were satisfied it could run safely. 
 Officials at BP learned on Friday that data from an internal sensing device had found 16 anomalies in 12 places in an oil line on the eastern side of the field. Follow-up inspections found ''corrosion-related wall thinning'' that ''appeared to exceed BP criteria for continued operation,'' the company said in a statement.
 Steve Marshall, president of BP Exploration Alaska, said Sunday night that the eastern side of Prudhoe Bay would be shut down first, an operation expected to take 24 to 36 hours. The company will then move to shut down the west side, a move that could close more than 1,000 Prudhoe Bay wells.
 Mr. Marshall said BP was considering repairing, bypassing or totally replacing the line.
 Only one of BP's three transit lines is operating. The third was shut down in March after up to 267,000 barrels of oil spilled. BP installed a bypass on that line in April with plans to replace the pipe.
 Officials suspect corrosion in both damaged lines, caused primarily by carbon dioxide that comes up with water, oil and gas during drilling.
 While a prolonged shutdown would be a blow to domestic oil production, even a short one could be crippling to Alaska's economy.
 According to forecasts from the Alaska Department of Revenue, a 400,000-barrel production drop would mean the state would lose about $4.6 million in revenue each day. That money goes into the state treasury and its oil wealth savings account, the Alaska Permanent Fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); BP EXPLORATION ALASKA INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); BP AMERICA INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



141 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 323 words

 BODY:

DO WE HEAR A PAUSE? -- The central economic news of the week will emerge from the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, which will decide whether to raise the benchmark short-term interest rate -- now at 5.25 percent -- yet another time. On the one hand, many economists predict that the Fed will leave things unchanged, which would be welcome news for investors, but then again, who knows? The dearth of one-handed economists is legendary. (Tuesday.) 


ECONOMIC MEASUREMENTS -- Few if any fireworks are expected from the coming crop of economic reports, but expectations can always be wrong. Leading off the week will be the Federal Reserve's consumer credit report for June (Monday), followed by second-quarter productivity figures (Tuesday), wholesale trade data for June (Wednesday), trade deficit figures for June (Thursday) and, on Friday, import prices for July, retail sales for July and business inventories for June.

CORE CONSTITUENCY -- The annual worldwide developers conference of Apple Computer will be held all week, starting Monday, in San Francisco. Apple calls it its ''most important annual event for hardware and software developers, including in-house developers, computational scientists, I.T. managers and system administrators.'' But given the disclosure last week that the company had found new irregularities in its handling of stock options and that it would be revising some financial statements, code writers will probably not be the only ones waiting eagerly to hear what Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, has to say.

A PENNY EARNED -- Earnings reports are starting to wind down, but there are still some big names reporting this week. The highlights include: Priceline.com (Monday); Cablevision Systems, Cisco Systems and the News Corporation (Tuesday); Aramark, Cendant, the Interpublic Group of Companies, Viacom and Walt Disney (Wednesday); and Expedia, J. C. Penney, Kohl's and Target (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); CREDIT REGULATION (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (72%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (71%); RETAIL SALES (68%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (67%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTEREST RATES (57%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (54%); IMPORT PRICES (53%); STOCK OPTIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: APPLE INC (83%); NEWS CORP (65%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (64%); ARAMARK CORP (53%); WALT DISNEY CO (53%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (53%); PRICELINE.COM INC (53%); VIACOM INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (NASDAQ) (65%); NWS (ASX) (65%); IPG (NYSE) (64%); DIS (NYSE) (53%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (53%); PCLN (NASDAQ) (53%); VIA (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (64%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (53%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (53%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (53%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



142 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: In Montana Senate Race, Focus Is on Local Issues Rather Than Washington

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: MISSOULA, Mont. 

 BODY:
Jon Tester was standing before a lunchtime crowd here at the Uptown Diner when a member of the audience lobbed a swooping, swing-for-the-fences softball Mr. Tester's way about Senator Conrad Burns and the lobbyist Jack Abramoff. 
 Did Mr. Tester think that Mr. Abramoff's financial ties to Mr. Burns made the senator ''a bought politician?'' the man asked.
Mr. Tester, a 49-year-old farmer and Democratic state senator who in his first run at statewide office is trying to unseat Mr. Burns, paused and took a breath. ''He's a different man than the one who was elected 18 years ago,'' he said quietly.
 Jack who? 
 That has become the question this summer as a nationally watched election that a few months ago seemed likely to be swinging on the issue of Washington's ways and mores has instead downshifted to local, idiosyncratic Montana issues.
 ''Nobody has the momentum right now that the other side has to take a risk to counter, so they're both cautious,'' said Christopher P. Muste, an assistant professor of political science at the University of Montana.
 Congressional Quarterly, which had listed the race as leaning Republican, recently changed its assessment to ''no clear favorite,'' partly because of a gaffe by Mr. Burns about, of all things, firefighters. 
 Mr. Burns, who is 71 and seeking his fourth term, lambasted a group of firefighters after running into them at a Montana airport in late July, telling them in front of witnesses that they had done a lousy job on a wildfire.
 Firefighters are pop heroes in this state of big timber, and even though Mr. Burns quickly issued a written apology -- saying he was frustrated by a bad fire season in the state's forests -- the damage was apparently done. Mr. Tester immediately issued a statement supporting firefighters.
 Mr. Tester, a third-generation farmer, very much looks the part of old Montana agriculture, right down to his flattop haircut that looks like nothing so much as a field of hard northern wheat. And he proudly declares his love for the land at every opportunity. Energy independence, he says in most of his speeches, must be a priority. And that independence, he adds, will depend on renewable sources like wind power and on farmers in places like Montana, where he believes wind farms and ethanol-production agriculture could boom.
 ''My wife and I farm; you get up in the morning and you work your tail off,'' Mr. Tester said in an interview. ''My goal is to stay grounded in Montana.''
 He is also an accomplished musician with an undergraduate degree in music -- he plays the trumpet -- and is a friend of a member of the rock band Pearl Jam who grew up in Montana near the Tester place.
 Critics say he is just a liberal in hayseed trappings.
 ''He's the darling of the liberal left, from Pearl Jam to as many liberal groups you can bring in,'' said Jason A. Klindt, a spokesman for the Burns campaign. ''They all seem high on Jon Tester. That says a lot about him.''
 Mr. Burns was not available for an interview despite repeated requests.
 Several people who were interviewed on the streets of Missoula on a recent morning said they supported Mr. Tester mainly because they were tired of Mr. Burns or angry at him.
 Jamie Lawrence, a candle shop owner in Missoula who said her family had been in Montana for five generations, said she would vote for Mr. Tester because it was time for a change.
 ''The reason why Tester probably will be elected is that Montanans have gotten so sick of the Republicans we had,'' Ms. Lawrence said. 
 Others said they were unhappy with Mr. Burns, but would vote for him anyway.
 ''Yeah, I think Conrad ought to be hurt over some of that stuff that went on, but for me it's basically the lesser of two evils,'' said Jim Edison, a small-business owner from Superior, about 70 miles from here. ''I believe if the Democrats gain power, there will be more and more social programs that we can't afford. But I'm mad at the Republicans, too.''
 The backdrop for both candidates is a state in the middle of an identity crisis. The energy economy is booming from gas and oil exploration, but agriculture is struggling and the percentage of people without health insurance is among the highest in the nation -- a point that Mr. Tester constantly cites in his speeches.
 The western half of the state, which includes the Democrat-laden university towns of Missoula and Bozeman, is growing rapidly from an influx of retirees and tourism. The eastern half, Mr. Burns's historic base, has been losing population.
 Democrats, who gained control of the Legislature and the governor's office in 2004 with the election of Gov. Brian Schweitzer, say they have found the new political recipe for Montana -- mixing support for the right to bear arms, environmental protection and American Indians, who make up about 6 percent of the population. Others say that Mr. Burns's seniority and clout in the Senate and his ability to get federal dollars to Montana will carry the day, no matter what.
 ''This isn't Conrad's first rodeo,'' said Mr. Klindt, the spokesman for Mr. Burns. ''He's always had tough, close races. We don't expect this to be any different.''
 What may partly box in the Tester campaign in the months ahead is the need to set him apart from traditional politicians and Mr. Burns in particular, and the need that may yet emerge to remind voters of Mr. Abramoff. 
 Mr. Abramoff pleaded guilty in January to conspiracy, fraud and tax evasion charges. He and his associates gave more political contributions to Mr. Burns than any other member of Congress -- $150,000 -- in what prosecutors describe as an influence peddling scheme that also defrauded many of those seeking influence, including several Indian tribes. No charges have been brought against Mr. Burns or any member of his staff.
 It seems that the Tester campaign is still trying to figure how -- or whether -- to make Mr. Burns's ties to Mr. Abramoff part of the election debate. 
 Ethel MacDonald, a Missoula resident who described herself as a ''peace activist,'' confronted Mr. Tester at the Uptown diner here in Missoula on exactly that point.
 ''Do not waste any dollar I give you on negative advertising -- please,'' Ms. MacDonald said with a long, drawn-out emphasis on ''please.'' ''I don't think he needs to remind people of Abramoff,'' she added in an interview. ''We all know.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jon Tester, right, at a festival in Missoula in July. Mr. Tester, a Democratic state senator in his first run at statewide office, is trying to unseat Senator Conrad Burns, a Republican.
 Senator Burns during a stop in Fairfield last month. A veteran of three terms in the Senate, he finds himself in a race that Congressional Quarterly is now calling a tossup. (Photographs by Brian McDermott for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREST FIRES (89%); FIRES (89%); WIND ENERGY (85%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (76%); FAMILY FARMS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); POP & ROCK (68%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); MUSIC (61%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (61%); ALCOHOLS (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); WIND POWER PLANTS (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (55%) Senate (US); Bp Exploration Inc

PERSON: JON TESTER (93%); KENT CONRAD (88%) Kirk Johnson; Jack Abramoff; Conrad (Sen) Burns; Jon (State Sen) Tester

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (90%) MONTANA, USA (97%); ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) Montana; Montana; Prudhoe Bay (Alaska); Alaska

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



143 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: Investors, Including Bono, Buy a Big Piece of Forbes

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
SINCE the death in 1990 of the legendary publisher Malcolm S. Forbes, his four sons and a daughter have sold his cherished assets here and there -- his private jet, the collection of Faberge eggs, a handwritten copy of Lincoln's last address. The father suggested in his memoir that it was only natural and proper that his children do so, but even he might have been taken aback by the most recent divestiture. 
 On Friday, the family sold a significant minority stake in a newly formed company, Forbes Media, which includes the 89-year-old Forbes magazine started by their grandfather, B. C. Forbes; the Forbes.com Web site; and a number of smaller media properties, to Elevation Partners, a private equity group.
Malcolm Forbes, whose tastes in music ran to Scottish bagpipes, might have been even more surprised that among the new owners of the company is Bono, the U2 singer and one of six partners in Elevation. 
 ''My father and grandfather would approve,'' said Steve Forbes, who spoke by telephone from the offices of Forbes in Manhattan along with Roger McNamee, a managing director and co-founder of Elevation. ''No one is the master of their own universe. Time and circumstances change. We wanted the wherewithal to pursue the enormous opportunities in front of us, and Elevation understands technology, media and print. They are not just a source of capital; they are a source of insight.''
 Mr. Forbes emphasized that the company was looking for operational flexibility rather than familial liquidity, but it was clear that a business model that had been ''blasted by the Web,'' as Mr. Forbes put it, had taken a toll on the Forbes family. The magazine, swept up in the optimism of the digital boom in the late 90's, paid dearly in terms of credibility and advertising pages when the market collapsed. Two runs for president by Mr. Forbes also proved costly. 
 There are bright spots: the company's own aggressive investment in digital technologies is showing significant profits, and advertising sales at the magazine appear to be rebounding a bit. But the Forbes brothers have struggled to maintain profits at their business magazine, which is unaligned with a large media company, at a time when advertising continues to flee print. 
 The Forbes company and Elevation circled each other for several months -- Mr. Forbes and Mr. McNamee both described it as a mating ritual -- before getting down to serious negotiations in the last several weeks, concluding Friday with the signing of documents. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed, but some people said that the deal gave Elevation a stake of more than 40 percent at a cost of $250 million to $300 million. 
 Those people, however, did not have firsthand knowledge of the transaction, and no one directly involved in the deal would confirm those numbers. Even though Forbes has now taken on partners, it continues to be an exceedingly private enterprise.
 Proceeds from the sale will be used both to invest in the business and to pay out money to members of the family. 
 Mr. McNamee called the alliance with Forbes a ''brand-defining moment'' for Elevation, a relatively new partnership conceived by a rock star and guided by some of the more successful venture capitalists on the West Coast.
 ''It says that we are in the business of helping content creators in the traditional media world manage the transition imposed by the Internet,'' he said. Bono was not directly involved in the Forbes meetings, but Mr. McNamee said that the singer was attracted to the magazine because it ''has a point of view,'' adding that Bono ''drove this part of the discussion and likes the fact that there has been a consistent philosophy throughout its history.''
 But it was clear from talking with Mr. McNamee that his group was buying into a Web site with a magazine attached, as opposed to the other way around. Forbes.com had 10 million unique visitors worldwide, a very robust number, in June, according to comScore Media Metrix. 
 During the boom, Forbes invested tens of millions of dollars in its digital endeavors with an eye toward an initial public offering. That strategy did not pan out in the near term, but it left the company positioned for growth once the Web became a viable advertising proposition. With few hopes that the magazine would return to its glory years of the 1990's as the largest magazine in terms of pages in the business news category, much of the value of the deal is built on potential profits from the Web site.
 ''The Web has disrupted traditional business models in the print world, and Forbes is poised to take advantage of a huge opportunity,'' Mr. McNamee said. ''What is not to like? We are like a kid in a candy store.''
 While the magazine has not seen much in the way of investment or editorial impact in the last few years, the Web site is growing, with plans for a new travel site. It outdraws competing sites like CNN Money and BusinessWeek Online. Competitors complain that the site has used pay-for-click alliances to build traffic artificially and has deployed editorial gimmickry, like a feature on ''Top Topless Beaches,'' to increase traffic in unbusinesslike ways. 
 Mr. McNamee said that Forbes's edge over its competition in the digital realm was very real, in part because the family came to understand the nature of opportunity on the Web more quickly than its competitors.
 ''The Web undermines the advantages of scale,'' he said. ''It is our view that the distribution model that used to dominate in media is largely unsustainable. We are in the first inning, and Forbes has really trusted content, a history of innovation on the Web and a very vibrant business.'' 
 A share of the company had been shopped for months by J. P. Morgan, so the sale of part of the company was not unexpected, but the people on the other side of the table did come as a bit of a surprise. Elevation Partners is a two-year-old fund formed by veterans of the digital economy that raised $1.9 billion to invest in media and entertainment deals. This is the third deal for the fund, after investments in a video gaming partnership and a real estate Web business. 
 No one in the group has any significant experience in print properties, although they have abundant digital and finance expertise. The other managing directors include Fred Anderson, former chief financial officer of Apple Computer; John Riccitiello, former president and chief operating officer of the video game publisher Electronic Arts; Marc Bodnick, founding principal of the private equity group Silver Lake Partners; and Bret Pearlman, former managing director of the Blackstone Group. Mr. McNamee, who founded Silver Lake Partners and Integral Capital Partners, and Mr. Riccitiello will take seats on the Forbes board.
 They now have a hand in a storied brand that has been buffeted by its status as an unaligned, independent magazine. Forbes's competitors have significant corporate backing -- Fortune is owned by Time Warner, BusinessWeek by McGraw-Hill, and Conde Nast will soon introduce a magazine to be called Portfolio.
 There has been speculation that the rough going for most business magazines in the last five years -- Forbes has a little more than half the ads it had at the height of the technology boom -- combined with Mr. Forbes's two runs for president (costing north of $70 million) left the family in need of additional liquidity. But Mr. Forbes said the partnership with Elevation was driven by ambition, not financial weakness.
 ''We have investment needs for real opportunities,'' he said. ''The whole world has opened up again, and we don't want our children to think we just sat on our hands. Yes, it has increased family liquidity -- we do have estate-planning to do -- but we are now poised to go against the behemoths.''
 A media brand seeking cachet and capital could do worse than signing up Paul Hewson, a k a Bono. For the last 25 years, Bono has stayed atop a fickle business by embracing the latest technology in order to build global reach, constantly renewing the creative product and engaging in public stewardship along the way, including work on trade issues and global poverty. 
 Of course, Bono's investment in a magazine that celebrates wealth and consumption is bound to raise eyebrows. But Mr. McNamee said the stake in Forbes did not necessarily clash with his politics and his rhetoric, saying, ''The way you solve poverty is giving people the tools to overcome it.'' Bono could not be reached for comment. 
 Timothy C. Forbes, chief operating officer of Forbes Media, is actually the music fan in the family, but Steve Forbes, whose hobbies run more toward flat-tax advocacy, said that ''One'' is his favorite U2 song. It begins somewhat portentously with a plaintive pair of questions: ''Is it getting better, or do you feel the same? Will it make it easier on you, now you got someone to blame?''
 With a name like Bono on the letterhead, Elevation is not-so-private equity, but Mr. McNamee said that Elevation -- the word is a U2 song, the name of one of its tours and an equity fund -- was Bono's idea.
 ''He looks at this as a great opportunity to get involved in traditional media and move it forward,'' Mr. McNamee said.
 The deal has some specific benefits to the Forbes family. Those who know the brothers say that they are completely engaged in running the company and have little idea what they might otherwise do. So selling out, as was briefly discussed when Conde Nast was first contemplating getting into business publishing, was never really an option. 
 Steve Forbes said that the company had been looking for a partner on and off since 1999. 
 ''This was a very good time to get the kind of wherewithal we need for the kind of expansion we need to have,'' he said. ''This is a natural step for the company with the right people. Forbes as always been about entrepreneurial capitalists.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Roger McNamee, left, a business partner of the singer Bono, is teaming up with Steve Forbes and his family, who control Forbes Media. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); MUSIC (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); PRINT ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (68%) 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Forbes Media; Forbes Inc; Elevation Partners; Forbes.com

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: BONO (91%) David Carr; Steve (Malcolm S Forbes Jr) Forbes; Malcolm (1919-90) Forbes; B C (1880-1954) Forbes; Bono (Musician)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006



144 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Shares Slip as Price of Oil Surges Again

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks declined yesterday as crude oil surged in New York after BP began shutting down the largest United States field, in Alaska, for emergency repairs.
 Speculation that the Federal Reserve's interest rate increases may curtail economic expansion also sent shares lower.
Although the Fed may hold rates steady when it meets today, ''You still have inflation in the form of higher energy prices,'' said Hans Olsen, who manages $2 billion as chief investment officer of Bingham Legg Advisers in Boston. ''Does a one-meeting reprieve from interest rate increases really mean anything? And the answer is probably not.'' 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.59 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1275.77. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 20.97 points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,219.38. The Nasdaq composite index lost 12.55 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,072.50. 
 Crude oil for September delivery rose 3 percent, to $76.98 a barrel in New York, after reaching $77.30 earlier in the day. The jump in prices added to investor concern that profits could waver in the second half if companies face higher costs and consumers spend less.
 A gauge of transportation shares dropped 1.7 percent, extending its third-quarter drop to 15 percent, the worst performance among 24 industry groups in the S.& P. 500. Union Pacific retreated $2.86, or 3.4 percent, to close at $80.99.
 Among airlines, the US Airways Group fell $1.88, to close at $43.07. Southwest Airlines lost 28 cents, to end at $17.69.
 The advance in oil drove most energy shares higher. Exxon Mobil rose 54 cents, to $69.23. Chevron added $1.17, to $66.83. Occidental Petroleum rallied $2.05, to $107.29.
 Shares of BP, however, fell $2.09, to close at $70.45 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 Mylan Laboratories tumbled $3.09, or 13 percent, to $19.92 after federal regulators agreed to permit another drug maker to sell a rival generic copy of Johnson & Johnson's Duragesic pain patch. The patch generated about $70 million in sales for Mylan in the fiscal first quarter, and the company said it had not expected additional generic approvals of the medicine during fiscal 2007.
 Signs of a slowing economy have left the major United States stock indexes little changed this quarter. Consumer spending had its smallest increase this year in June, while service industry orders in July were the lowest in more than three years. Employers added fewer jobs than expected in July, and the unemployment rate rose.
 While the data has increased speculation that the Federal Reserve will pause today in its long campaign of raising interest rates, investors appear to have shifted their focus to the outlook for growth.
 ''The market's concerned that growth is probably slowing more than expected,'' said Owen Fitzpatrick, who helps manage $25 billion as managing director at Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management in New York. ''And that will be followed by corporate profits coming down more than expected.''
 Prices of Treasury securities fell yesterday after six days of increases. The price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 7/32, to 10118/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.92 percent, from 4.89 percent on Friday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three-year Treasury notes and three- and six-month Treasury bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price -- 99.936
High Yield -- 4.898
Low Yield -- 4.840
Median Yield -- 4.871
Total applied for -- $47,304,946
Accepted -- $23,417,906
Noncompetitive -- $321,593
Interest set at -- 4 7/8

*The 3-year notes mature Aug. 15, 2009.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 <TABLE CCIFORMAT="1,0" ROWS="9" COLS="3" WIDTH="51.5059m" TAG="agate" DISPWIDTH="34.2196m" BREAK="norule"><TABLECOLUMN WIDTH="21.5196m"></TABLECOLUMN><TABLECOLUMN WIDTH="100R" DISPWIDTH="31.7502m" ALIGN="right"></TABLECOLUMN><TABLECOLUMN WIDTH="100R" ALIGN="right"></TABLECOLUMN><TABLEHEAD HEIGHT="2.0461m"><TABLEROW><TABLEFIELD></TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD>3-Mo. Bills</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD>6-Mo. Bills</TABLEFIELD></TABLEROW>
</TABLEHEAD>
<TABLEBODY><TABLEROW><TABLEFIELD>Price</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD>98.738</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD>97.477</TABLEFIELD></TABLEROW>
<TABLEROW><TABLEFIELD>High Rate</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD> 4.990</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD> 4.990</TABLEFIELD></TABLEROW>
<TABLEROW><TABLEFIELD>Investment Rate</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD> 5.124</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD> 5.190</TABLEFIELD></TABLEROW>
<TABLEROW><TABLEFIELD>Low Rate</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD> 4.960</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD> 4.950</TABLEFIELD></TABLEROW>
<TABLEROW><TABLEFIELD>Median Rate</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD> 4.970</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD> 4.975</TABLEFIELD></TABLEROW>
<TABLEROW><TABLEFIELD>Total applied for</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD>$47,013,977</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD>$41,657,776</TABLEFIELD></TABLEROW>
<TABLEROW><TABLEFIELD>Accepted</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD>$24,574,037</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD>$23,050,216</TABLEFIELD></TABLEROW>
<TABLEROW><TABLEFIELD>Noncompetitive</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD>$2,124,368</TABLEFIELD><TABLEFIELD>$1,889,697</TABLEFIELD></TABLEROW>
</TABLEBODY>
</TABLE>
Both issues are dated Aug. 10, 2006. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 09, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on Feb. 08, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' tracks Treasury Bills, High rate at weekly auction since May. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (85%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AIRLINES (69%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Interest Rates; Government Bonds; Finances; Credit

COMPANY: BP PLC (85%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (84%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (55%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (54%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%); LCC (NYSE) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (63%); XOM (NYSE) (57%); UNP (NYSE) (55%); LUV (NYSE) (54%); OXY (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (53%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



145 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: The Science of Zzzzz's

BYLINE: By PAUL BURNHAM FINNEY

 BODY:
With the global economy now taking more executives to far-flung places like Beijing and Mumbai, jet lag is becoming a bigger aggravation, leading sleep researchers to work harder than ever to find suitable remedies. 
 Trips to the other side of the globe make adjusting a traveler's body clock -- or circadian system -- an even more drawn-out process. Jet-lag experts say they believe it takes one day for each time zone away from home, up to a maximum of six or seven days, to get fully in sync with local time.
On brief visits to China, as Dr. Abinash Virk of the Mayo Clinic pointed out, business travelers often have no recourse except to plunge into meetings without time to recuperate. 
 About eight million corporate travelers made overseas trips last year, according to the United States Office of Travel and Tourism Industries. Most were flying to Europe or the Pacific Rim, throwing their body clocks off kilter -- and the effects are considered greater going East than West. 
 There is no easy remedy. One problem in developing solutions is all the variation in travelers' ability to handle jet lag. Sleep researchers have found that people who have dealt with sleep deprivation over long periods -- on night shifts, for example -- can tolerate jet lag better than most.
 Older travelers also tend to get harder hit than the young by jet lag, as President Bush might attest. When asked how he felt after his quick visit to Baghdad just before his 60th birthday, Mr. Bush said, ''A little jet-lagged.''
 Dr. Charmane I. Eastman, director of the Biological Rhythms Research Lab at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, said she had found one way to virtually eliminate jet lag from, say, a New York-Milan flight. 
 It involves resetting your body clock with small doses of the hormone melatonin for three days before flight time -- combined with going to bed an hour earlier each day -- and then taking in bright light, natural or artificial, after arriving in Italy about six hours later. She recommends using a light box, widely used to treat the ''winter blues.'' 
 But most international travelers manage their jet-lag problem by improvising, often with advice from their physician or a medical travel clinic. 
 ''I used melatonin for a while, but it made me feel buzzy the next day,'' said Leigh Allen, chief executive of Global Consumer Finance Advisory, a consulting firm, who makes frequent trips between New York and London. ''Now I have dinner on the ground since British Airways made that an option at JFK, then board and go to bed after a drink or two, and sleep for most of the seven-hour flight.'' 
 Melatonin has been widely considered helpful for reducing the effects of jet lag, and for inducing sleep. Now, however, the latest consensus among medical researchers is that melatonin isn't considered reliable in inducing sleep, but is useful for adjusting your body clock.
 Left to their own devices, most travelers settle for a sedative to get to sleep on the plane -- Ambien, Lunesta or Sonata are among the most popular -- and a caffeine pill to wake up. But people who use these sedatives also may fail to get up and exercise in flight to reduce the risk of blood-clotting from tight seating, and may experience side effects after they land. 
 Some businesses are seeking advice on jet lag for their employees. Alertness Solutions, a Silicon Valley consultancy, has worked with JetBlue, Qantas and Singapore Airlines, among others
 ''Airline captains are the master jet-laggers,'' said Dr. Mark R. Rosekind, president and chief scientist at the consulting firm. ''We've done surveys of pilots to see how they manage alertness. They're not doing the stuff that works.''
 What does work? ''Napping and caffeine, among various solutions,'' said Dr. Rosekind. ''When I was at NASA, we did a study involving 26-minute naps and we found they boosted performance by 34 percent and alertness by 54 percent. Naps of less than a half-hour work.
 ''Using a combination of nap and caffeine is better than using them separately, if you can believe it. It takes 15 to 30 minutes for caffeine to kick in. So you do the two together. All it takes is a cup of coffee -- not even a pill. By the time the caffeine is working, your nap is over.''
 JetBlue has a program to promote wakefulness in its pilots, created jointly with Alertness Solutions, that diagnoses their sleeping styles and helps them make adjustments. 
 For instance, sleep patterns may show that a captain gets only five solid hours of sleep over a nine-hour period. After diagnosing the pattern, JetBlue would help modify that sleep pattern, through diet or exercise, to provide more restful sleep during a shorter period. A spokeswoman, Jenny Dervin, said the airline would open the program to flight attendants this fall.
 Sleep researchers are also working with professional and amateur athletes who, of course, change time zones to play ''away'' games or perform at international meets. ''A proper amount of sleep can boost an athlete's performance as much as 30 percent,'' said Dr. Rosekind. 
 Last fall his company worked with Hilton Hotels to improve sleeping quarters for American athletes at the Olympic Winter Games in Italy. The enhancements included new lighting, mattresses, temperature controls and easy-to-set alarm clocks to relieve athletes' chronic anxieties about waking up on time. 
 Sleep experts are broadening their research to include the disconnect between flying fatigue and work patterns.
 ''The problem is how you manage people with a global 24/7 lifestyle,'' said Dr. Martin Moore-Ede, chief executive of Circadian Technologies, and a former Harvard Medical School professor. 
 ''The big new trend is what our clients call 'journey management,' '' he added. For example, when companies bring together staff from all over the world for a project, his firm will help coordinate the trips to help make sure everyone is productive when they arrive.
 Dr. Moore-Ede added, ''Jet lag may be largely sleep disruption, but it's really a complex mixture of being out of sync with your normal behavioral pattern, plus other factors, even including airline food. If you're going to be abroad for only a few days, why fool around with bright-light solutions? If you keep resetting your body clock, you end up scrambling your orientation.''
 Mr. Allen of Global Consumer Finance Advisory, a veteran traveler, said with an air of cheerful resignation: ''In a sleep-deprived world, I just run around perpetually tired. I don't call it jet lag.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Charmane Eastman, in the La-Z-Boy room of the Biological Rhythms Research Lab at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, studies ways to reset the circadian clock. (Photo by Peter Wynn Thompson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLEEP (91%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (88%); HEALTH CARE (86%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); AIRLINES (78%); TRAVELERS HEALTH (78%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (78%); SLEEP DISORDERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MEDICAL TOURISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); TOURISM (54%) Airlines and Airplanes; Jet Lag; Melatonin (Hormone); Hormones; Sleep; Caffeine; Biological Clocks

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (56%) Rush University Medical Center

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Charmane (Dr) Eastman; Paul Burnham Finney

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (88%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



146 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FREQUENT FLIER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Free Advice From an Expert On Getting Stuff Free 

BYLINE: By Spencer Antle; As told to Christopher Elliott.

 BODY:
LIKE most business travelers, I love getting things free.
 I started collecting frequent-flier miles for the free flights. I make regular trips to the Caribbean to sell swimwear and get inspiration for future designs, and have accumulated enough points along the way for Platinum status with American Airlines.
But sometimes I end up with much more than tickets. A few years ago, on a flight from Los Angeles to Miami, I struck up a friendly conversation with a flight attendant. I mentioned that the entrees they were serving in the first-class section looked tasty. Moments later she materialized above my economy-class seat. 
 ''We have an extra meal,'' she whispered. ''How do you feel about steak?''
 I don't like to pay big prices for hotel rooms. Some of the resorts I visit carry my apparel, so I get discounts as a courtesy. I've had great rooms on the beach for next to nothing, while other guests are paying hundreds of dollars a night. Sometimes I feel guilty about it. Well, almost.
 In some instances, I don't even have to ask for the freebies. On a recent visit to the Cayman Islands, I visited Red Baron Divers, one of the dive shops that are considering carrying our line. As I unfolded some of our new board shorts and bikinis, the owner, Nick Buckley, walked in.
 ''You certified?'' he asked.
 ''Actually, I'm an instructor,'' I said (a holdover profession from before I started a clothing company). 
 Half an hour later, I was 100 feet underwater, chasing hammerhead sharks along the North Wall. Of course, free isn't always completely free. I left plenty of samples with Red Baron.
 In the islands, T-shirts are often as good as local currency. A few years ago I missed a flight from St. Maarten to St. Barts, where I was supposed to be spending Christmas. So I went to a bar and ordered a Mount Gay and tonic and tried to figure out what to do next. 
 ''Love that shirt,'' I heard someone say. 
 I was wearing one of my shirts that read: ''Quit your job. Buy a ticket. Get a tan. Fall in love. Never return.'' 
 ''Oh, thanks,'' I replied, opened my backpack and handed him one. Turns out he was a crewmember on a yacht. And their next stop was St. Barts.
 Out of gratitude, he offered to buy me another drink. ''I have a better idea,'' I suggested. ''Mind if I ride with you to St. Barts?''
 ''No worries, man.''
 Occasionally, ''free'' gets me into trouble, though. A few months ago, I struck up a conversation with a well-dressed gentleman at Cucina Dell'Arte, a bar in Palm Beach, Fla. I shared with him a secret for getting into the all-inclusive Club Med resort in the Turks and Caicos called Turkoise.
 ''You scale the wall like a ninja,'' I explained. ''And then you persuade a departing tourist to give you a wristband. And voila -- free drinks!''
 After my colorful story, my new friend's face was expressionless. Then he reached into his pocket and handed me one of his business cards.
 Under his name, it said: ''Chief Executive Officer. Club Med.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Spencer Antle, creative director of the Island Company, a beachwear maker in Florida. For him, free means more than frequent-flier miles. (Photo by Island Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); AIRLINES (78%); SCUBA DIVING (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); APPAREL MFG (73%) Travel and Vacations; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Island Co

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: Spencer Antle; Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (79%); SAINT MARTIN (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



147 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Rose in June 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Consumer borrowing unexpectedly accelerated in June as Americans used credit cards to finance more of their purchases, a Federal Reserve report showed yesterday. 
 Consumer credit, or nonmortgage loans to individuals, rose $10.3 billion, to $2.19 trillion, after a revised $5.89 billion increase in May.
Americans are relying more on credit card debt because rising interest rates and a cooling housing market make it harder for them to take out home equity loans. Higher prices at gasoline stations are also prompting consumers to borrow more, economists said.
 Revolving debt, which includes credit cards, rose by $6.65 billion in June after rising $7.42 billion in May, the report showed. Nonrevolving debt, like loans to buy cars and mobile homes, rose by $3.62 billion in June after declining $1.54 billion a month earlier. Overall consumer debt rose at an annual rate of 5.7 percent in June.
 The Federal Reserve's campaign to curb inflation has driven up the cost of credit card borrowing. The average rate on a credit card increased to 13.14 percent in May 2006, from 12.76 percent a year earlier, according to Federal Reserve statistics. 
 Fed policy makers, who meet today, are expected to leave the benchmark interest rate at 5.25 percent as they pause to assess the impact of past increases on the economy.
 The economy expanded at a 2.5 percent annual pace in the second quarter, down from growth of 5.6 percent in the previous three months, as consumers put the brakes on spending.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Borrowing''Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks the Net change in total consumer debt since 2005.Annual pace of changeJune -- +5.7%May -- +3.3April -- +5.7(Source by Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (93%); CONSUMER LENDING (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); STATISTICS (76%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); GAS STATIONS (71%) Credit and Money Cards; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



148 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: Unlikely Partners Create Plan to Save Ocean Habitat Along With Fishing 

BYLINE: By JON CHRISTENSEN

DATELINE: MORRO BAY, Calif. 

 BODY:
Fishery closings are generally not greeted as good news in ports like this. 
 Angry protests are more likely. So to find an environmentalist and two commercial fishermen quietly conspiring on the bridge of a fishing boat docked in Morro Bay as a far-reaching prohibition on bottom trawling went into effect on the West Coast this summer was unusual, to say the least.
The environmentalist, Chuck Cook, said he had been called a ''conservation Nazi'' in some ports. And Gordon Fox, who has been dragging fish and shrimp from the bottom of the Pacific Ocean for nearly 30 years, admitted the conversation would be ''perceived by some in the industry to be sleeping with the enemy.'' 
 Together with other fishermen and conservationists, Mr. Cook and Mr. Fox have fashioned a plan that they hope will preserve the fish and, just as important to both of them, fishing here off the central coast of California. It is a complicated deal centered on a simple quid pro quo, Mr. Cook said. 
 The trawlers in Morro Bay agreed to join the Nature Conservancy and Environmental Defense, an organization that advocates market-based solutions, in proposing three ''no-trawl zones.'' They would cover nearly 6,000 square miles of ocean between here and Monterey Bay, an area roughly the size of Connecticut. 
 In exchange, the Nature Conservancy agreed to buy fishing permits and boats from fishermen, like Mr. Fox, who want to get out of the trawling business, trade their boats for smaller vessels, and try to find more selective, sustainable ways to continue fishing.
 ''It's a good time to make a change,'' Mr. Fox said. And Mr. Cook, who is buying Mr. Fox's boat and trawling permit for the Nature Conservancy, could not agree more. 
 When Mr. Fox looks back at the 100-foot-wide net on the stern of his 62-foot steel drag boat, the South Bay, he sees an obsolete tool designed for an old task: conquering the Pacific Coast fisheries after the United States' exclusive economic zone was extended to 200 miles from shore in the late 1970's.
 Like hundreds of others of its kind, Mr. Fox's boat did its job all too well, scooping up truckloads of fish in one swoop. 
 ''We had the cheapest fish in the world,'' Mr. Fox said. ''And it's the reason we don't have a good fishing resource.'' 
 The very success of the bottom-trawling fleet has been the cause of its failure: the precipitous decline of a variety of bottom-dwelling rockfish and groundfish and the prohibition of trawling across vast areas up and down the West Coast. 
 The deal struck by conservationists and fishermen follows a chart laid out by the National Research Council in a 2002 report on the devastating effect of repeatedly dragging nets across seafloor habitat. 
 ''That's been our bible on this project,'' Mr. Cook said of his well-worn copy of the study, which surveyed years of research on trawling. Its recommendations included closing vulnerable areas of the ocean floor to bottom trawling and reducing fishing outside protected areas in tandem, rather than as separate strategies, as had been done in the past.
 When the fishermen and conservationists agreed on the Morro Bay plan, it sailed through the normally contentious regulatory process at the Pacific Marine Fisheries Council and the National Marine Fisheries Service. 
 ''It's genius,'' said Stephen Copps, a senior policy analyst in the northwest regional office of the fisheries service, which regulates fishing in federal waters and approved the plan in March. 
 ''The hardest thing to do in fisheries management is to close an area to protect habitat,'' Mr. Copps said. ''Things have been so polarized between environmentalists and fishermen.'' 
 The Morro Bay agreement was accepted as part of a coastwide plan to protect nearly 150,000 square miles of ''essential fish habitat'' from the Mexico to Canada. 
 What made the deal so unusual were the private buyout to reduce trawling and the collaboration between fishermen and conservationists, Mr. Copps said.
 ''This is an experiment,'' he said, ''using private money to offset the social and economic costs of marine conservation.'' 
 But he hopes the experiment ''propagates beyond this region,'' he said. 
 While the deal was done quietly, it was made possible by a traditional noisy conflict: a lawsuit by an environmental group, Oceana, against the National Marine Fisheries Service, accusing it of failing to designate adequate habitat for West Coast groundfish like Dover, petrale sole, black cod and rockfish. 
 A judge ordered the agency to prepare an environmental impact statement. That opened the door for Mr. Cook and Rod Fujita, a marine scientist with Environmental Defense, to ask trawlers to join them in submitting an alternative plan. 
 When it was accepted as the preferred alternative, the court granted the environmental groups access to proprietary information about the trawl tracks that fishermen follow. Fishing captains are required to record their exact locations using global positioning system monitors from the moment they lower their nets until they haul them back onboard. Often covering up to 20 miles in a 6-to-10-hour tow, those tracks provided a precise picture of fishing and a key to the solution the National Research Council had recommended. 
 Scientists at the Nature Conservancy and Environmental Defense overlaid the tracks on maps of underwater features like canyons and ridges, home to a wide variety of species vulnerable to nets.
 ''We had the science, and we had the trawl tracks,'' Mr. Cook said. ''And when you have those two pieces of information, you're going to get it kind of right.'' 
 Using computer-based models, the scientists mapped out three areas that they judged could adequately protect two-thirds of the overall biodiversity along the ocean shelf off the coast of central California. Then Mr. Cook and Mr. Fujita negotiated with the Morro Bay fishermen. 
 After they went back and forth a few times, the irregular shapes of the areas that resulted were ''designed to miss and leave open the sweet spots,'' Mr. Fujita said, acknowledging that fishermen who continue to trawl ''need to stay alive.''
 Mr. Fujita and Mr. Cook said they wanted to see fishing survive, but with a sharp reduction in trawling. So far, Mr. Cook has made deals to buy five out of six of the trawling permits in Morro Bay at a cost of several hundred thousand dollars each. And he is negotiating with 10 fishermen on a similar deal to protect areas off Monterey Bay and Half Moon Bay to the north. He hopes to reduce trawling in these waters by more than half.
 That leaves him with a quandary, however. If he succeeds in closing deals on as many as 15 boats and permits, the Nature Conservancy may soon be the largest holder of trawling permits on the West Coast. 
 ''But we don't want to trawl,'' Mr. Cook said. Instead, the conservancy hopes to bank half the permits, he said, and lease the rest back to fishermen under rules that would put constraints on the fishing gear that could be used, the locations that could be fished, and the species that could be caught.
 This would be much like land-based conservation easements that allow farming or logging, for example, while prohibiting development. It would be the first time such a restriction would be used in fishing, Mr. Cook said. 
 The lease proposal appeals to Christopher Kubiak, another Morro Bay fisherman who sold his trawling vessel and permit to the Nature Conservancy. 
 Mr. Kubiak is developing a proposal with Mr. Fujita to allow commercial fishermen's organizations in Morro Bay and nearby Port San Luis to manage the trawl quotas they lease from the conservancy, while switching gear from trawl nets to fishing with hooks and traps, so that they can more selectively fish for abundant species and allow other stocks to recover. 
 Mr. Kubiak said fishermen needed to find low-volume, high-value fisheries of the past. He looks north to the San Francisco Bay Area and sees millions of people still hungry for fish. 
 ''There's definitely a market,'' he said. ''Quality is one thing people are interested in.'' But they are interested in ''how it's caught, too,'' Mr. Kubiak added. 
 ''Not with this,'' he said, gesturing toward the trawl net on the back of Mr. Fox's boat. ''They don't want anything to do with this.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Protecting the Seabed''After two environmental groups, the Nature Conservancy and Environmental Defense, overlaid maps of underwater areas vulnerable to destruction from trawling nets with tracts where fishermen trawl, three new no-trawl zones were created off the coast of California.Map of the Pacific Ocean off California including Big Sur Coast/Port San Luis, Point Conception, and East San Lucia Bank highlights the following:New no-trawl zonesOther no-trawl zonesNature Conservancy's ''high priority'' areasAreas trawled, 1994-1996(Sources by The Nature Conservatory
 Ocean Studies Board, The National Academies [trawl map])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); OCEANS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); FISHERIES (89%); FISHES (79%); SHELLFISH FISHING (79%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (76%) 

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (83%) Nature Conservancy and Environmental Defense

PERSON: Jon Christensen; Chuck Cook; Gordon Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) California; Morro Bay (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



149 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: Space Colonization

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I was surprised that ''Life After Earth: Imagining Survival Beyond This Terra Firma'' (Aug. 1) ignored the work of Freeman Dyson. A physicist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., Dr. Dyson has been researching, writing and lecturing on the possibilities for space colonization since the 1950's. 
The concepts of ''Dyson spheres'' and ''Dyson trees'' have been widely borrowed, both by scientists and science fiction writers. Like the scientists quoted in your article, Dr. Dyson sees space colonization as a fallback position should human society on Earth be threatened. But he also sees it in a much broader context of a human race that is driven to expand and evolve beyond the confines of Earth.

Raymond D. Gastil
Deep River, Conn.

To the Editor:
 A better use of the Moon than as a lifeboat is to use its resources to stave off catastrophe. Abundant aluminum, silicon and iron in its soil could be used to build solar power collectors in high Earth orbit, producing zero-greenhouse-gas electricity and providing hydrogen to fuel our vehicles. It's much easier to bring a pound of material ''downhill'' from the Moon than to launch that same pound from Earth's deep gravity well.
 We're fortunate to be part of a twin planet system. The Moon is an offshore island that will play an increasingly important role in the survival and economy of the Earth.

Gregg E. Maryniak
St. Louis

The writer is the director of the J. S. McDonnell Planetarium.More letters: nytimes.com/science

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (70%); SOLAR ENERGY (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (52%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (84%) Princeton University

PERSON: Raymond D Gastil; Freeman J (Prof) Dyson; Gregg E Maryniak

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



150 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: A City Wonders What to Do Next With Its 102-Year-Old Firehouse

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BARRE, Vt., Aug. 5 

 BODY:
The property is advertised like any other in the window of a real estate office here, the ultimate fixer-upper with wood ceilings, exposed brick and quite a history.
 It was, until recently, the city's lone firehouse.
 The Barre City Council is selling the old firehouse to put the building on the tax rolls and generate revenue for this cash-strapped community of 9,000 in central Vermont. 
 The Council, which is using a local real estate agent to market the site, is asking $250,000 for the 12,000-square-foot building, which, in addition to a garage for firetrucks, has upstairs living quarters and a basement. Built in 1904, it would, however, require extensive renovation before the new owners could move in.
 ''It's got some of the most beautiful woodwork on the inside, and most of it is original,'' David Gladding, a firefighter for 28 years, said. ''It's got the old wood floors, the creaky floors upstairs. It has a lot of character.''
 Not just anyone can buy it. Potential purchasers have to submit a plan for the building to the Council by October. The Council will review the plans at hearings and deliver a decision by Dec. 31. 
 The owner must be able to generate tax revenue and, ideally, employment. The Council is willing to accept a lower price if the bidder's vision squares with what it would like to see. 
 Council members are leaning against residential development, City Councilor Carol Dawes said, but they are not ruling it out.
 ''We want it to be a good fit,'' Ms. Dawes said. ''We hope it has a significant economic impact, that it maybe creates jobs and encourages people to spend time in downtown Barre. But we don't want to limit anybody's thinking. It really comes down to the only sort of parameters are we want it on the tax rolls and to maintain its historic exterior. Those are the most important things.''
 The city held public hearings in the spring to learn residents' opinions.
 ''The No. 1 idea from people 18 to 80 was to have a brew pub,'' said John Biondolillo of BCK Real Estate, which is showing the property. Other ideas include a fire museum, a community center, a business development center, a nightclub or a high-tech company.
 Mr. Biondolillo has had more than 15 calls about the site in the last week, including one from an artist who wants to turn the first floor into a retail store and to live above it, various businesses and a few restaurateurs. The calls have come from as far as Texas. Mr. Biondolillo would not identify the callers.
 The firehouse opened when horses pulled all the engines, and their gnaw marks still line the windowsills. The building has three shafts that held fire poles as well as a large shaft where firefighters dried wet hoses. 
 On top is a bell tower with an original Paul Revere bell that belongs to the city.
 The department outgrew the space years ago. It held just one of the city's four firetrucks and one of its two ambulances. The other equipment was housed elsewhere. The entire department moved into a new $4 million public safety complex on the other side of the city a few months ago, but firefighters miss the old building.
 ''I'm kind of sad,'' Firefighter Gladding said. ''It was a sad day when we left it, but I understand why we did. It has a lot of character, and the new one's kind of sterile.''
 Firefighter Gladding said the new owner would have to carry out some ''serious renovations'' to make the systems in the building function and meet code requirements.
 He, too, would like to see the building turned into a brew pub or a bar and grill, its high ceilings possibly used to hold beer casks and its spacious basement converted into a kitchen.
 ''I have the plans in my head,'' he said. ''I have everything laid out where it should go, but I just can't afford to do it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Charbonneau, a Barre firefighter, under a shaft that once held a fire pole.
 Barre, Vt., is asking $250,000 for its historic firehouse. Prospective buyers must submit a plan for the building to the City Council, which will then choose the winner. (Photographs by Caleb Kenna for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); RETAILERS (72%); CITIES (72%); JOB CREATION (70%); FLOORING (67%) Fires and Firefighters

PERSON: Katie Zezima

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Barre (Vt)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



151 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: BIGGEST OIL FIELD IN U.S. IS FORCED TO STOP PUMPING 

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
BP began shutting down the nation's largest oil field yesterday after an inspection detected heavy corrosion and a small leak in a critical pipeline in its Prudhoe Bay operation in Alaska. The emergency drove already-high world crude oil prices to just under $77 a barrel.
 The company said that it would take three to five days to shut the pipeline system that serves Prudhoe Bay on the North Slope of Alaska. BP said it could not estimate how long the system would be down as it replaced all 16 miles of feeder pipelines that connect the Prudhoe Bay field with the larger Trans-Alaska Pipeline.
 Bob Malone, president of BP America, said at a news conference in Anchorage that the company would look for a way to get at least some of the oil flowing again, quickly and safely, to limit the impact on the nation's oil supply. He issued a public apology.
 The Prudhoe Bay field produces 400,000 barrels a day, or 8 percent of American crude. Another 380,000 barrels a day from the North Slope is not affected by the shutdown. 
 The shutdown is expected to roil the Alaskan economy for months, if not longer. California and the rest of the West Coast also stand to suffer economic damage since refineries there are designed to process the Alaskan crude.
 Coming at a time of rising turbulence in the Middle East and threats by Iran to use oil as a political weapon, the news from Alaska pushed the price of crude oil for September delivery up $2.22, or 3 percent, to $76.98 a barrel. While that is close to a record high, it is still lower than the inflation-adjusted record of about $85 a barrel reached in 1981. The effects of the big jump in oil prices were seen worldwide yesterday, with stock prices declining in Europe and the United States. 
 Prices at the gas pump began to rise as much as 5 cents a gallon in some cities. Analysts predicted an additional rise of at least another 5 cents in the coming days, particularly on the West Coast.
 Daniel Yergin, president of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, said the shutdown would not ordinarily be a major problem by itself. But he added: ''This is a disruption on top of several other disruptions that are currently afflicting the world's oil markets in Nigeria, Iraq, Venezuela and production is still out in the Gulf of Mexico. The numbers are starting to add up.''
 The discovery of pipeline corrosion, and the shutdown to do emergency repairs, are the latest in a string of embarrassments for BP, which is based in London but has operations in the United States that are bigger than those of Exxon Mobil. 
 Its troubles also come as Congress is debating whether to expand oil drilling on the North Slope. The House recently approved drilling for oil and gas in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, but the Senate has remained reluctant to act because of environmental concerns. Oil companies may now have a tougher time reassuring lawmakers.
 The discovery of corrosion in the pipeline caught BP by surprise, and as of yesterday, the company was still trying to determine the cause. As a result, it is re-evaluating how it conducts inspections along the pipeline.
 ''We can't explain it,'' Ronnie Chappell, a spokesman for BP said. The company's regular practice in Prudhoe Bay had been to spot-check sections of pipeline that were prone to corrosion.
 ''We believed that this program was giving us an accurate view of what was occurring in these pipelines,'' Mr. Chappell said. ''But the discovery of this unexpectedly severe corrosion in this particular segment of line has caused us to rethink that.''
 Mr. Chappell said the pipes where the corrosion was detected had not been inspected with a ''smart pig,'' a device that travels through the inside to measure pipe wall thickness, since 1992. The reason the device was not used, he said, was that the pipes were too clogged with sludge for the device to pass through easily. 
 But after a major spill in March along the same network of pipes, the Department of Transportation ordered inspections with the smart pig. Those tests revealed that the steel had corroded in 12 places on the eastern side of Prudhoe Bay to thicknesses less than BP considers safe. 
 In those areas, tests found losses of 70 to 81 percent in the 3/8-inch thickness of the wall, the company said. In one area, it said, the equivalent of four to five barrels of oil had already leaked out of the pipeline because of the rusting. The company said that spill had been contained, and that workers were in the process of vacuuming it up from the tundra.
 Ten miles of the 16 miles of pipeline in the Prudhoe Bay field have yet to be inspected with the smart pig, raising the possibility that more severe corrosion could be detected. Six miles of pipeline at BP's Lisburne field, near Prudhoe Bay, were not affected by the shutdown and remain operational.
 Because the company is uncertain how long it will take to make the repairs, the final cost of the emergency shutdown is difficult to estimate. The company said it had not yet done an analysis to determine the financial impact.
 The shutdown further sullied the reputation of BP as it was trying to re-engineer its marketing to project the image of an environmentally sensitive company committed to controlling climate change. BP executives were quick to acknowledge the dimensions of their new problem, which comes in the wake of a deadly refinery explosion last year in Texas and the 270,000-gallon spill on the North Slope in March. That spill, the worst since production began on the North Slope, has resulted in a federal criminal investigation.
 ''BP deeply regrets that it's been necessary for us to take this drastic action,'' Bob Malone, president of BP America, said at a news conference. ''I apologize for the impact this has had on our nation and to the great state of Alaska.''
 BP said it was studying the possibility of operating portions of the pipelines to reduce the disruption, but it is unclear whether it can do that.
 The Prudhoe Bay field was discovered in 1968 and came on stream in 1977, producing 10 billion barrels so far. BP operates the field, with nine other companies holding interests in field leases including ConocoPhillips and Exxon Mobil. ConocoPhillips estimated a loss of about 144,000 barrels a day in crude oil production. It said it did not know yet the impact of the loss on its overall operations. Exxon Mobil estimated a similar loss in production.
 Mr. Malone, the BP America president, acknowledged that the discovery of severe corrosion in the pipelines and the small oil spill had called into question the condition of most of the oil transit lines at Prudhoe Bay.
 ''We will not resume operation of the field until we and government regulators are satisfied that they can be operated safely and pose no threat to the environment,'' Mr. Malone said.
 The immediate price rise may have been even higher had the Bush administration not immediately signaled that it was ready to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to ease lost supplies. ''I'm obviously concerned,'' Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman told reporters as he promised to help West Coast refiners find additional supplies.
 OPEC quickly announced it would use its spare capacity to compensate for any shortfalls arising from the Prudhoe Bay field shutdown, but additional supplies expected from Saudi Arabia would be of a lower quality than the Alaskan supplies. 
 Oil industry leaders said West Coast refineries could feel the pinch of shortages in crude in a matter of weeks, even with the release of strategic reserves since those reserves tend to have higher sulfur content than many of the California refineries are designedto process. Some of the West Coast refineries, however, are owned by major international companies that have easier access than other refineries to world supplies.
 ''Practically all of this impact and loss of supply will occur on the West Coast,'' said Bob Slaughter, president of the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association. But, he added, ''One of the things we learned from Katrina and Rita is that a problem in one part of the U.S. quickly affects the entire U.S. and often the world supply and demand as well.''
 The shutdown spurred calls in Congress to give the Department of Transportation greater powers to impose stronger maintenance standards on pipelines and it brought more criticism of Big Oil at a time of historic profits.
 ''With oil above $70 per barrel and BP making record profits, it can afford to properly clean and maintain its pipelines,'' said Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat and member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. ''This sudden loss of production will dramatically increase oil prices and the American people will be footing the bill for this combined failure of D.O.T.'s regulatory oversight and BP's corporate responsibility.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The operation at Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, that BP said would be shut over the next few days because of deterioration of the pipelines. (Photo by BP, via Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 Bob Newton used ultrasound equipment last week to check for corroded spots in a section of oil pipeline on the North Slope of Alaska. (Photo by Al Grillo/Associated Press)(pg. A14)Maps of Alaska highlighting Trans-Alaska Pipeline: BP will replace miles of pipe tied to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline. (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (79%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (79%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); APPROVALS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); ENERGY RESEARCH (60%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (59%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Pipelines; Shutdowns (Institutional); Trans-Alaska Pipeline System; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); IHS INC (63%); BP AMERICA INC (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Bp Plc

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); IHS (NYSE) (63%); XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: Clifford Krauss; Jeremy W Peters; Bob Malone

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) ALASKA, USA (99%); WEST USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); ARCTIC (78%) Prudhoe Bay (Alaska); Alaska

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



152 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: The Non-Working Man's Burden 

 BODY:
It's too soon to tell whether the recent jump in unemployment -- from 4.6 percent in June to 4.8 percent in July -- is the start of a worsening jobless trend. What is clearly disturbing, however, is that for nearly a year the labor market has not been as tight as one might assume from the jobless rate. And now, the ranks of the unemployed have grown. 
 Contrary to popular belief, a low unemployment rate does not necessarily signify a strong economy. It can be a sign of weakness if it reflects a shrinking labor force, as has been the case throughout much of the Bush-era economic expansion. Today, nearly five years after the end of the last recession, the share of the population at work -- the employment rate -- is 1.7 percentage points below its peak in April 2000, indicating millions of potential workers who have dropped out of the labor force completely and are thus no longer counted as unemployed.
A certain amount of dropping out is nothing to worry about. Some people leave work to raise children or return to school, for instance. 
 But the phenomenon is extremely troubling among millions of men in the prime of their working lives, ages 35 to 55. The Times's Louis Uchitelle and David Leonhardt reported recently that about 13 percent of prime-age American men are not working -- more than double the percentage in the brisk employment decades of the 1950's and 1960's -- and most of them have quit looking for jobs. 
 It's easy to dismiss men who aren't working as lazy bums. It would be more effective to attack the trap of layoffs and the lesser jobs that follow, which many of these men are trying to avoid. A place to start would be to assess the problem forthrightly. The Bush administration has often bragged about the economy's relatively low unemployment rates rather than admit that they mask economic weakness. Administration officials have also talked up the economy's job growth record by citing totals without context, thereby masking the fact the job creation during the Bush years has badly trailed historical norms.
 Perhaps most damaging is the administration's insistence that more education and training are a panacea for job loss. Higher levels of learning and skill don't magically create jobs. Public policy for a globalized age must grapple with twin challenges: how to create full employment in the face of international competition, and how to create a safety net for jobless Americans in a globalized economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); DISMISSALS (73%); CHILDREN (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%) Labor; Editorials; Unemployment; Men

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



153 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Man Is Stabbed to Death; Companion's Daughter Is Held

BYLINE: By EMILY VASQUEZ; Ann Farmer contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
A Brooklyn man was fatally stabbed at his home in Bensonhurst on Sunday afternoon in what the police described as a dispute over whether his companion's adult daughter would move out. 
 The daughter, Lynda Delaney, 26, was arrested shortly after the stabbing, the Brooklyn district attorney's office said.
The man, Daniel Ilardi, 54, was stabbed with scissors after his son and Ms. Delaney argued, said the son, Matthew Ilardi, 21. The father died about 3:30 a.m. yesterday at Lutheran Medical Center.
 Matthew Ilardi said the fight began earlier on Sunday afternoon, when he came home to the family's duplex at 1845 Shore Parkway and found that Ms. Delaney had kicked his bedroom door, leaving a dent. He said he had kicked her door in retaliation, and she emerged from her room with a box cutter. 
 Mr. Ilardi said his father helped to calm down Ms. Delaney, but soon, shouting in the house began again. He said his father had wanted Ms. Delaney to move out of the house, but she was reluctant to go. ''All of a sudden I heard some yelling and screaming,'' he said. ''She went upstairs to get scissors, she got the weapon, and she came downstairs, and she threw it into his chest.'' 
 The police said Ms. Delaney stabbed Daniel Ilardi in the heart with the thrown scissors, piercing his right ventricle. She threw them from about two feet away, Matthew Ilardi said. The family first thought that the father might survive, but he had lost too much blood, the son said.
 Ms. Delaney, who has a 2-year-old daughter, was at first charged with assault, reckless endangerment, menacing, criminal possession of a weapon and endangering the welfare of a child, but she will now face more serious charges because of Mr. Ilardi's death, the police said. 
 Matthew Ilardi, standing outside the police station while family members were being questioned inside, said yesterday that Ms. Delaney was unemployed, but was training to be a security guard. ''All he wanted to do was help her out; he was trying to get her an apartment,'' the son said.
 He said his father and Ms. Delaney's mother, Catherine Delaney, had been together for about 10 years.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lynda Delaney

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (90%); FAMILY (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); DEATHS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); CHILD ABUSE (63%) Murders and Attempted Murders

PERSON: Emily Vasquez; Ann Farmer; Lynda Delaney; Catherine Delaney; Daniel Ilardi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



154 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve Leaves Key Interest Rate Unchanged

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve on Tuesday left a key interest rate unchanged, marking at least a temporary pause in what had been the longest unbroken stretch of Fed rate increases in recent history.
 The Fed's rate-setting committee voted 9 to 1 to leave the federal funds rate, the interest banks charge on overnight loans, at 5.25 percent. It was the first time the Fed had met and not raised rates in more than two years.
However, the relief for millions of business and consumer borrowers could be only temporary. The central bank said that "some inflation risks remain," holding out the possibility that it could resume raising rates at future meetings. 
 The Fed decision means that banks' prime lending rate, the benchmark for various consumer and business loans, will remain at 8.25 percent. Before the Fed started raising rates in June 2004, the prime had been at 4 percent, its lowest point since 1958.
 In 17 consecutive meetings stretching from June 2004 through June 2006, the Fed boosted the funds rate from a 46-year low of 1 percent to the current 5.25 percent, all in an effort to slow the economy enough to keep inflation under control.
 The Fed's decision to finally pause had been widely anticipated given the signs of a spreading economic slowdown, in part reflecting the impact of the Fed's long string of rate hikes.
 Overall economic growth slowed in the spring to a rate of just 2.5 percent, less than half the pace of the first three months of the year, and on Friday the government reported that the unemployment rate in July rose from 4.6 percent to 4.8 percent.
 In explaining its decision, the Fed noted the slowing economy, saying, "Economic growth has moderated from its quite strong pace earlier this year."
 The Fed said this moderation in part reflected a gradual cooling of the housing market, the economic drag caused by rising energy prices and the lagged effects of previous Fed rate hikes.
 But the central bank also signaled concerns about continued inflation risks, although it also said "inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time."
 The central bank said that "the extent and timing of any additional" rate hikes that may be needed will depend on incoming data on both inflation and economic growth.
 For the first time since Ben Bernanke took over as chairman in February, the Fed decision was not unanimous. Fed board member Jeffrey Lacker dissented, saying he would have preferred another quarter-point rate hike.
 Many analysts believe the pause in rates will be short-lived as Fed policy-makers confront continued inflation pressures in the form of a relentless surge in energy prices and new data that wage pressures are intensifying.
 The Labor Department reported Tuesday, just before the Fed policy-makers began meeting, that productivity slowed sharply in the spring while labor costs rose, a combination that could spell inflation troubles down the road.
 Many economists believe the Fed will follow the August pause with one and possibly two more quarter-point rate hikes in the fall. The Fed's next meeting is Sept. 20.
 Expectations of a pause in the rate hikes had been raised by Bernanke when he delivered the Fed's latest economic forecast to Congress last month, saying the central bank believed that a slowing economy would lower inflation pressures over the next two years.
 At 5.25 percent, the funds rate, which is the overnight rate that banks charge to loan other banks, is at its highest point in more than five years.
 The funds rate is the Fed's main tool for influencing economic activity. Higher interest rates slow borrowing for homes, cars and other items and in this way depress economic growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INTEREST RATES (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PRIME RATES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



155 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Big U.S. Business Troupe Is Being Readied for India 

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is organizing a business delegation to India this fall, potentially the largest such mission ever to a single country, an administration official said Monday, and one that underscores the economic potential of a nation of 1.1 billion, with an annual growth rate of 8 percent. 
 ''That's a reflection of interest in India,'' the official, Assistant Secretary of State Richard A. Boucher, said, referring to what could be a delegation of up to 400 American business leaders planned in November.
Trade between the countries has grown by a projected 21 percent this year, to nearly $26 billion, according to the United States Trade Commission and American Embassy officials here. 
 Exports to India are expected to grow still further if Indian officials carry through with economic changes sought by Washington, including the end of restrictions on foreign investment in industries like retailing and banking. The United States is India's largest trading partner. 
 A pending Indian-American nuclear deal, the most potent symbol of a partnership between the countries, bears important consequences for American companies that produce nuclear technology. 
 The deal, brokered by the leaders of the countries during President Bush's visit to India in March, would offer India access to nuclear technology to expand its civilian program. India has not signed the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. American legislation, if passed, would offer India, which is seeking energy sources, access to the global nuclear market for the first time and, as Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice reminded Congress in testimony earlier this year, also ''create a new market for American nuclear firms.''
 The House overwhelmingly approved the measure last month. Mr. Boucher said the Senate was expected to take it up in September. ''It's on track, it's moving swiftly,'' he told a meeting of politicians and business leaders organized by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry on Monday. ''This bill will reflect the agreement made by the president and the prime minister.'' 
 But differences over Iran have dogged the partnership. Last week, the Bush administration announced that it had imposed sanctions on two Indian companies for doing business with Iran. On Monday, the Indian Foreign Ministry criticized the move, saying that the Indian companies, Balaji Amines and Prachi Poly Products, did not breach Indian law ''or our international obligations.'' The companies are accused of selling chemicals to Tehran, a violation of a United States law. 
 The Foreign Ministry spokesman, Navtej Sarna, said: ''India is working with the international community, including with the U.S., as a partner against proliferation. In this context, the imposition of sanctions by the U.S. on our firms, which in our view have not acted in violation of our laws or regulations, is not justified.'' 
 Washington also remains critical of a proposal to build a pipeline that would carry natural gas from Iran, through Pakistan, to India. Mr. Boucher suggested this week that India look to energy-producing Central Asian republics like Kazakhstan and Tajikistan instead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); APPROVALS (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); LEGISLATION (72%); POLITICS (71%); TESTIMONY (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (50%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (53%); BALAJI AMINES LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Trade Commission (US)

TICKER: BALAMINES (NSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) Somini Sengupta; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (52%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN (52%) India; New Delhi (India)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



156 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

PIPELINE LEAK SENDS OIL HIGHER -- BP began shutting down the nation's largest oil field after an inspection detected heavy corrosion and a small leak in a critical pipeline in its Alaskan Prudhoe Bay operation. The emergency drove already-high world crude oil prices to just under $77 a barrel. BP said it could not estimate how long the system would be down. [Page A1.] 


STOCKS FALL ON OIL WORRIES -- Stocks declined as crude oil surged after BP began shutting down its field in Alaska for emergency repairs. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.59 points, to 1275.77. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 20.97 points, to 11,219.38. The Nasdaq lost 12.55 points, to 2,072.50. [C12.]

SHORTCHANGING PUBLIC PENSIONS -- A number of states, counties and municipalities have engaged in maneuvers similar to the city worker pension fund in San Diego, which, after being underfunded, set off a wave of lawsuits, investigations and eventually criminal indictments. [A1.]

TRADING IN CADAVERS -- ''Body Worlds,'' a show displaying preserved, skinless human corpses, has attracted 20 million people worldwide over the past decade and taken in over $200 million. But now with millions of people flocking to see that exhibition and others like it, a ghastly new underground cadaver industry has emerged in China. [A1.]

CELLPHONE BOOM IN IRAQ -- The State Department said there are 7.1 million cellphone subscribers in Iraq, up from 1.4 million two years ago. [A1.]

MARTHA STEWART SETTLEMENT -- Martha Stewart, the celebrated domestic tastemaker, reached a settlement with securities regulators over insider-trading accusations, agreeing to pay $195,000 to conclude a five-year legal battle that once put a dent in her brand name. [C1.]

GOOGLE IN DEAL WITH MYSPACE -- Google has won a bidding war to provide search services and advertising to MySpace.com, the social networking phenomenon, as well as other Web sites owned by the News Corporation. [C1.]

I.B.M. CLEARED IN RETIREMENT CASE -- A three-judge appellate panel ruled that I.B.M. did not discriminate against its older workers when it switched retirement plans in 1999, a decision that could help shelter hundreds of companies from possible age-discrimination suits. [C1.]

FORBES FAMILY SAGA -- The sale of 40 percent of the company that publishes Forbes magazine may resolve some growing tensions among Forbes family members, some of whom have been unhappy about the sale of nonpublishing family assets in the last six years. [C1.]

THE MAN BEHIND THE FORBES DEAL -- Wall Street bankers are abuzz about Roger McNamee, a force in Silicon Valley venture capital circles who founded Elevation Partners, a private equity firm that has invested an estimated $250 million in the Forbes publishing business. [C1.]

APPLE COMPLETES TRANSITION -- Apple Computer said it had completed its transition to computers based entirely on Intel processors. [C4.]

WAL-MART TO RAISE SALARIES -- Wal-Mart Stores said it would raise starting salaries at a third of its United States stores by about 6 percent after a company survey found that it needed to improve hourly pay to remain competitive. [C4.]

AOL REMOVES SEARCH DATA -- AOL removed a list of the Web search queries of 658,000 unnamed users from a public Web site over the weekend, after bloggers complained that the information was so detailed and personal that it could compromise the users' privacy. [C4.]

NEW TACTICS FOR MAGAZINES -- Conde Nast's Fashion Rocks extravaganza demonstrates what it takes for a publisher to stay relevant lately: staging outsize, razzle-dazzle productions that incorporate television, the Web and wireless communications, but have relatively little to do with a print product. Advertising. [C4.]

OUTREACH TO INDIA -- The Bush administration is organizing a business delegation to India this fall, potentially the largest such mission ever to a single country and one that underscores the economic potential of a nation of 1.1 billion. [C7.]

COLA CAMPAIGN IN INDIA -- PepsiCo and Coca-Cola intensified a long-running campaign in India to prove that their products are safe, as local governments imposed a partial ban on their soft drinks. [C7.]

ONLINE

MORTGAGES -- Bob Tedeschi's weekly column on mortgages and finances can be found at nytimes.com/realestate.

ONLINE: DEALBOOK -- A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

ONE FOR BABY -- For years baby food changed little. Now there has been a growth spurt of alternatives, from single-ingredient purees to complete toddler meals in designer packages. A report is at nytimes.com/style.

TWO NEW G.M. PICKUPS -- Chevrolet and GMC introduce the 2007 Silverado and Sierra pickups -- delivering what G.M. says is the best power and fuel economy in the segment. A report is at nytimes.com/automobiles.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks BP's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (88%); DISCRIMINATION (87%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (87%); OIL SPILLS (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); INDICTMENTS (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); LITIGATION (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); INSIDER TRADING (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); OLDER WORKERS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); VENTURE CAPITAL (67%); JUDGES (67%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (65%); PUBLISHING (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (60%); APPEALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); MYSPACE INC (82%); NEWS CORP (63%); GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); NWS (NASDAQ) (63%); NWS (ASX) (63%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (82%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (65%) ALASKA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (86%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



157 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Sinful Second Homes

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
Come August, there are two kinds of people in the world: those with country homes, and those without country homes. If you, unlike me, are in the first group, we need to have an inconvenient talk. 
 We need to talk about your ''carbon footprint,'' a concept you may have learned from Al Gore. If you've seen ''An Inconvenient Truth'' or read the best-selling book, you know how strongly he feels about everyone's duty to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. He advises you to change your light bulbs, insulate your home, and cut back on driving and air travel. If you must make a trip, he notes helpfully, ''buses provide the cheapest and most energy-efficient transportation for long distances.''
Fine advice, and it would be even better if he journeyed to his lectures exclusively on Greyhound. But he seems to prefer cars and planes. When you tally up his international travel to inspect melting glaciers and the domestic trips between his homes -- one in Washington and another in Nashville, not to mention the family farm in rural Tennessee featured in the movie -- you're looking at a Godzilla-sized carbon footprint. 
 No matter how many fluorescent light bulbs you install in your second home's basement, you could save a lot more energy by eliminating the whole place. Even if you dutifully shut down each home when you leave it -- turning off the electricity, draining the pipes and turning off the heat, etc. -- you're still expending extra energy commuting between your homes. A trip to a weekend house can easily burn more gasoline than a commuter uses all week.
 Yet somehow, in all the years I've been reading lists of energy-saving tips, I've never noticed, ''Sell second home.'' A cynic might attribute this oversight to a high correlation between fervent environmentalism and second-home ownership -- Robert Redford and his place at Sundance, the Kennedys and their compound on the Cape, Laurie David and her home on Martha's Vineyard, John Kerry's seaside and mountainside manses.
 Granted, some environmentalists deal publicly with their carbon footprints. Gore and David say they offset their energy usage by sponsoring reductions in greenhouse gases through alternative forms of power and energy conservation (like building wind farms and paying farmers to turn methane into electricity). But are ''carbon offsets'' sufficient compensation? Not to activists like Charles Komanoff, an economic consultant to environmental groups. 
 He argues in Grist, an environmental magazine, that paying a penny or so per mile to offset the carbon from driving your car isn't the moral equivalent of riding your bike instead. It's more like the Catholic Church's old system of selling indulgences so the rich could avoid something scarier than global warming: purgatory. Quoting Gandhi -- ''Be the change you want to see in the world'' -- Komanoff says his fellow environmentalists should stop offering ''get out of purgatory free'' cards to the rich and instead insist that everyone personally reduce energy use.
 I'm not such a purist myself -- I'd let the average person salve his conscience with a carbon indulgence. But I'd hold environmentalist preachers like Gore to higher standards, especially when they're engaging in unnecessary energy use. And since I cannot afford a second home, I can objectively determine it to be unnecessary. 
 If you're going to own a second home while ordering everyone else to carpool, you must atone for your excesses, and it's not enough just to offset the carbon. Gaseous emissions aren't the only externalities of your home. By owning it, you're also inducing envy in your neighbors. You're contributing to the competitive urge that the economist Robert Frank calls ''luxury fever.'' When you go off for the weekend, those of us left sweltering in the city start lusting for our own second homes. We start dreaming of cutting down carbon-dioxide-absorbing forests to make room for neo-Adirondack cabins with central air and heated pools.
 The best way to tamp our enthusiasm -- or, I as prefer to put it, to reward our virtue -- would be with money. Besides paying farmers not to waste methane, you should be paying us not to build second homes. You could make the payment directly to your neighbors. Or, if you prefer, mail it to me, and I'll distribute it among the worthiest of my fellow single-home owners. 
 If you're short on cash, you could still atone with an in-kind payment: let me stay in your country home while you perform your energy-saving penance back in the city. It wouldn't have to be a long penance. By my calculations, the month of August would just about wipe out your sins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); CARBON OFFSETS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); EMISSIONS (77%); METHANE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); WIND ENERGY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (74%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (74%); BESTSELLERS (71%); FAMILY FARMS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (69%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); COASTAL AREAS (65%); RELIGION (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%) Environment

PERSON: AL GORE (76%); JOHN KERRY (50%) John Tierney; Al Gore; Robert Redford; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (71%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (52%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



158 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: The Hard Choices We Face in Iraq

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''A Timetable Isn't an Exit Strategy'' (editorial, Aug. 6) characterizes the Democratic position on Iraq as being nothing more than a call for a phased withdrawal of our troops.
 In fact, in a recent letter sent to President Bush, I joined 11 Democratic Congressional leaders in laying out a comprehensive strategy in Iraq that goes well beyond a phased redeployment of American troops. 
We urge the president to push Iraqis to reach a sustainable political settlement, including amending the Iraqi Constitution to achieve a fair sharing of power and resources. 
 We underscore the need to disarm the militias. We also call for an international conference to involve key countries and secure resources to finance Iraq's reconstruction. 
 The same three-pronged strategy was presented in a Democratic amendment that was defeated by the Republican majority in the Senate.
 Further, you allege that Democrats avoid a more far-reaching discussion and are doing nothing to help the public understand the grim options we face. 
 You published on your May 1 Op-Ed page an article I co-wrote with Leslie H. Gelb that discussed the difficult choices we face and offered a detailed policy prescription for preventing civil war.
 Your editorial's sole policy recommendation is to enlist the help of Iraq's neighbors and our European allies, something I, along with other Democrats, have long proposed. 
 Unless the president changes course and urgently adopts the Democratic recommendations, we risk trading a dictator for chaos in Iraq. 

Joseph R. Biden Jr.
Washington, Aug. 6, 2006

The writer is the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

To the Editor:
 May I suggest an exit strategy:
 Containment: Establish a NATO-style alliance with the moderate Arab regimes in the Middle East. Establish a working relationship with Iraq and Syria (much as Richard M. Nixon did with China). Enlist the support of Europe in the embargo of materials related to weapons of mass destruction.
 Promote three independent states in Iraq. Provide economic assistance and our military to resettle ethnic groups. Get in front of the coming civil war rather than behind it.

Ted Bonner
Greenfield, N.H., Aug. 7, 2006

To the Editor:
 I agree that there is a lack of political backbone from both parties regarding the war in Iraq, but please do not equally blame both parties. 
 President Bush and the Republican Party for years have cynically placed Democrats in a box by claiming that any criticism of the war is both unpatriotic and undermines the morale of our troops in the field. 
 This deft political maneuver has insulated the Republicans from public criticism. Unfortunately it also extends the danger to our troops and the civilians in Iraq. 
 Shame on both parties for playing political games while men, women and children pay with their lives.
 It seems to me that President Bush and the Republicans may have earned themselves an extra portion of shame this time.

Stuart Lempert
Silver Spring, Md., Aug. 6, 2006

To the Editor:
 You naively suggest that the way out of Iraq can be developed with the involvement of Iraq's Arab neighbors, along with the Europeans. 
 Since most of those countries were opposed to our Iraq incursion, detest President Bush, have no great love for the United States as a result of his actions, are pleased to see us stuck with this mess and enjoy seeing President Bush discomfited, the only plan that will actually work is to pull out the troops and leave it to the Iraqis to resolve their own problems as they see fit.

Arthur L. Yeager
Edison, N.J., Aug. 6, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''Baghdad's Chaos Undercuts Tack Pursued by U.S.'' (front page, Aug. 6) and '' 'Civil War' Is Uttered, and White House's Iraq Strategy Is Dealt a Blow'' (Washington Memo, Aug. 6): 
 This president, in his bull-headed push for democracy regardless of others' history, culture, politics and established governments, has set back American relations with the Muslim world for decades. His choices are bound to have repercussions we can't imagine. 
 Congress has failed us as well: after the terror attacks in September 2001, in an attempt to do something, it followed the leader over a cliff.
 The president pounds the lectern and talks about ''rooting out terrorism.'' While this has apparently been effective in gaining support, it is not true: no weapons of mass destruction were found in Iraq, people are suffering and dying in the thousands, and Islamists gain more and more adherents and have more and more reason to hate us. 
 Where is Americans' outrage?

Deena Linett
Montclair, N.J., Aug. 6, 2006

To the Editor:
 ''Baghdad's Chaos Undercuts Tack Pursued by U.S.'' reminds us that the way to get American troops home is to train and equip Iraqi forces. 
 The dots that no one seems to be connecting are that we are also told that our troops need to act more like policemen than soldiers even though they have not been trained to do that. 
 Our troops are training Iraqis to be soldiers. But Iraq needs them to be policemen. 
 Where is the sense in all this? No wonder it's not working.

Anne Krick
Wheaton, Ill., Aug. 6, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''For Iraqis, a New Rule of Life: Don't Trust Anyone in Uniform'' (front page, Aug. 3): 
 Have we learned anything at all from our past encounters with civil wars and guerrilla tactics in the Balkans and Vietnam? During the Tet offensive in 1968, I was a civilian with my wife and twin boys in Vietnam. 
 Routinely, Vietnamese and occasionally Westerners were killed or hauled off by Vietcong who gained entry posing as the South Vietnamese police.
 It seems that our policy makers fell asleep and chose to forget the lessons of Vietnam after we left. Have we learned nothing about the nature of this kind of war?

Edward Ost
Warminster, Pa., Aug. 3, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Felix Sockwell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WRITERS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (74%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); ETHNICITY (64%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



159 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Must Haves: Cellphones Top Iraqi Cool List

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Reporting for this article was contributed by Ali Adeeb, Omar al-Neami and Khalid W. Hassan from Baghdad, and Margot Williams from New York.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
The cool kids in Iraq all want an Apache, the cellphone they've named after an American military helicopter. Next on the scale of hipness comes a Humvee, followed by the Afendi, a Turkish word for dapper, and a sturdy, rounded Nokia known as the Allawi -- a reference to the stocky former prime minister, Ayad Allawi.
 Even more telling are the text messages and images that Iraqis share over their phones. From all over the city, Baghdad cellphones practically shout commentary about Saddam Hussein, failed reconstruction and violence, always the violence. One of the most popular messages making the rounds appears onscreen with the image of a skeleton.
''Your call cannot be completed,'' it says, ''because the subscriber has been bombed or kidnapped.'' 
 Cellphones have long been considered status symbols in developing countries, Iraq included. But in an environment where hanging out is potentially life threatening, cellphones are also a window into dreams and terrors, the macabre local sense of humor and Iraqis' resilience amid the swells of violence. 
 The business here is booming. According to figures published last month by the State Department, there are now 7.1 million cellphone subscribers in Iraq, up from 1.4 million two years ago. In an economy where jobs can be as scarce as rain, billboards for phones are among the only advertisements updated regularly in the capital.
 Some Iraqis report spending as much as $800 on phones like the Humvee, and from the rooftops of Sadr City, the poor Shiite district where trash lines the streets, visible cellphone towers outnumber minarets 15 to 2. 
 It is the relentless violence -- which now claims dozens of Iraqis every day -- that seems to have fertilized the industry's growth. Insurgents use phones to communicate and to detonate bombs, while Iraqis of all sects rely on their phones to avoid danger. 
 Jabar Satar Salaum, 50, the owner of a cellphone store on a busy street in the middle-class Shiite area of Karada, said he used his phone (a Nokia that is a step up from the Allawi) mostly to tell his wife that he was safe. On the ride to and from work across Baghdad, he said he called every few minutes. 
 ''I call to tell her I am leaving,'' he said. ''I call to tell what district I am in when I am driving, or if the roads are blocked by checkpoints, I call to tell her that as well.'' 
 Four of the eight stores on Mr. Salaum's block sell cellphones, and most have window displays where each phone is covered in plastic. 
 Between customers, his sons, Amjad, 17, and Muhammad, 15, said that cellphones were desirable not just because they were cool but also because they provided one of the country's only safe forms of teenage self-expression. 
 In May, a tennis coach and two of his players were shot to death in Baghdad because they were wearing shorts. Cellphones, in contrast, have attracted little religious outrage. 
 ''For young people, buying phones is a habit,'' Amjad said. ''Everybody buys different phones all the time. Whenever something new comes out, they have to have it.''
 He reached into his jeans and pulled out his newest acquisition, an orange Sony Ericsson that sells for about $300. It was protected by a hard, clear plastic case. On the wall to his left hung a poster of Nokia phones, showing images and model numbers displayed like the Popsicles on an ice cream truck. 
 ''I've had all of these,'' he said. How many exactly? ''At least 20,'' he said. ''Every one.'' 
 The nicknames for phones, he and other Iraqis said, are a mnemonic device derived in part from their shapes. The Allawi, a Nokia 3660, is broad and has a rounded bottom, resembling the physique of the former prime minister; the Apache is a Nokia flip-phone with a bottom that swivels, like a rotor blade. 
 The prices the phones command are rather high for Iraq, of course. But with a booming aftermarket in cellphones, people can sell their old ones for nearly the original price and move up to a fancier model. Service is relatively cheap, with most people relying on $10 and $20 prepaid cards rather than the more expensive monthly plans.
 And the powerful are as vulnerable to consumer culture as the young are. Brig. Gen. Jaleel Khalaf Shwayel of the Iraqi Army said that he buys a new phone every few weeks. During a recent interview at his office about deteriorating security in Baghdad, he spent several minutes wiping off his latest purchase, a titanium Nokia 8800 that he said he bought for $800.
 He said he kept up on the latest styles through glossy technology magazines from the United Arab Emirates, setting him apart from the insurgents who use cheap phones to detonate roadside bombs. His phone, or phones (he has three), also help him keep in touch with the areas his soldiers patrol. 
 ''I give my cellphone number to people in the neighborhoods, and I receive calls every day,'' he said. A day earlier, he said two tips came in. 
 ''In the el-Adil district, I received a call that people there had put mines in the road,'' he said. ''I gave an order to investigate, and we discovered it was right.
 ''Someone else told me about some bandits in a BMW. When we went to arrest them, we found R.P.G.'s,'' he said, referring to rocket-propelled grenades. 
 For human rights workers in Iraq, cellphones play a darker role. Omar al-Jabouri, who heads the human rights office for the Sunni Iraqi Islamic Party, said he often received pictures of men tortured or killed by death squads, many of them taken with the cellphones of witnesses or the victims' relatives. At bombings, Iraqis are often seen recording the carnage in pictures or short videos. 
 But mostly, people here use their cellphones for commiserating, searching for laughs among the tears or trying to knock the powerful off their pedestals. Over the past year, American soldiers, Saddam Hussein and the current Iraqi president, Jalal Talabani, have all been the subjects of humorous clips passed from phone to phone. 
 ''In Iraq, there is such an accumulation of frustration,'' said Fauwzya al-Attiya, a sociologist at Baghdad University. ''If an Iraqi does not embrace humor in his life, he's finished.''
 These days, some of the most popular clips poke fun at Islamist radicals. In one amateur video, a masked man, pictured at dusk with a knife, threatens to behead a fish because ''all the fish did not come out of the sea.'' With an exclamation of ''God is great,'' he bends over and slices off the fish's head, laying it on top of the scaly body. 
 Another video captures young men trying to decapitate a victim with a fake, dull knife and failing; like Hans and Franz, the muscle-bound weightlifters famously mocked on Saturday Night Live, the supposed killers are all talk, dense and incompetent. 
 Electricity and gas are also popular topics. One doctored photograph claims to offer an explanation for why Iraqis still have only a few hours of electricity a day: Two transformer towers are flipping a wire in circles like a jump-rope while a third tower bounces up and down. 
 And in another video, a young, bearded Iraqi dances with abandon after successfully refilling his propane gas cylinder. With a spiraling Arabic song as the soundtrack, he wriggles and smiles, shaking the cylinder over his head like a trophy. He also kisses it. 
 Clips from official sources and those adapted from television, both Western and Arabic, are also shared. Some Sunnis are currently passing around video outtakes of the militant Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr talking casually to advisers or friends that they believe make him look foolish (in part because he criticizes people who are ''Afendi,'' well-dressed and flashing their cellphones). 
 Everyone seems to enjoy laughing at Mr. Hussein. His propaganda has literally become a joke: a 2003 broadcast from Iraq's state-run station, just before the war, shows a gaggle of soldiers with machine guns dancing and singing along with Khasim al-Sultan, an Iraqi pop star.
 ''If you want the stars, we will reach out for the stars,'' the men sing, offering a pledge to Mr. Hussein. ''We will wipe America from the map!''
 Firas al-Taie, 19, after showing the clip, laughed and tried to explain why Iraqis find the segment entertaining. 
 ''It's not matching the reality,'' he said, in halting English. ''They said this thing and then something else happened.'' 
 Like many young Iraqis, he said that his cellphone was his most cherished possession. He said several of his uncles in Jordan pooled together the roughly $300 he needed for the phone of his choice last summer after he graduated from high school. 
 Asked how his middle-class family could justify such an expense, Mr. Taie, an engineering student at Baghdad University, said it was all a matter of the violence and Iraq's relentless state of alert. 
 ''It's important,'' he said. ''You have to have a cellphone. If I go to the college, or anyplace really, my parents call me like 100 times to see if I'm safe.''
 He said he doubted the need would let up anytime soon.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Iraqis use their cellphones often to reassure their families that they are safe. They also use their phones to take and send pictures after a bombing. (Photo by Khalid Mohammed/Associated Press)
 Brig. Gen. Jaleel Khalaf Shwayel of the Iraqi Army owns three cellphones and says he often upgrades. (Photo by Max Becherer/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Bombs and Explosives; Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) Damien Cave; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (92%) Iraq; Sadr City (Baghdad) ; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



160 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Just Like Others Considering a Presidential Bid, Pataki Unveils a National Energy Plan

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki, stopping here Monday between trips to New Hampshire and Iowa, laid out an energy plan that called for cutting American consumption of oil by one-fourth of current levels over the next 10 years. 
 Emphasizing policies that set him apart from many of his fellow Republicans, Mr. Pataki proposed incentives for companies to produce alternatives to gasoline and diesel, to market the substitute fuels, and to build cars capable of burning them. In a half-hour speech, he called for a national campaign to reduce dependence on foreign oil, an effort that he compared to World War II and the American Revolution.
''One of America's defining characteristics, as a people and as a nation, is our knack for accepting and overcoming great challenges,'' he said. 
 The challenge now, he said, is that much of the imported oil comes from hostile regimes. He cited Iran and said that each time the price went up $5 a barrel, that provided ''$85 million more a day, that they can use to advance their nuclear program or buy more Katyusha rockets for Hezbollah.''
 (In fact, Mr. Pataki's office later acknowledged that the number is closer to $85 million a week.) 
 Mr. Pataki has not publicly discussed any presidential ambitions, and said he was looking forward to a trip to Iowa in the near future to help campaign for Republicans there. But proposing an energy policy is becoming as much a rite of a presidential candidacy as stumping in Iowa, which traditionally holds the first caucus to choose delegates to the national nominating conventions, and his call for relying on corn-based fuels like ethanol is likely to resonate in that state.
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who also has not said if she wants to run in 2008, made an energy speech in May in the same place, the National Press Club. She called for cutting imports in half by 2025.
 Mr. Pataki proposed relying more on ethanol from corn, which is already in the marketplace, and ethanol from cellulose, which is not, and biodiesel, which is made from vegetable oil. He said the government should not pick the technology, but only offer companies financial incentives to work on the problem. For example, he said, companies constructing plants that make fuel from vegetable matter should be able to expense their capital investments.
 He said governments should lead the way, as New York has done, by cutting their consumption, especially of petroleum. And he noted that last week he signed a bill that prohibits oil companies from preventing gas stations they supply from selling alternative fuels.
 New cars could be built with the ability to burn gasoline or ethanol at a cost that was ''about the same price they would pay to buy floor mats,'' he said. Building such cars and running them on biofuels whenever possible would wean the country from ''the petroleum that is enriching our enemies and polluting our air,'' he said. 
 The nation is spending $1 billion a day on oil imports, money that should be spent domestically, he said. ''How much longer must we, the world's greatest nation, be made to hold our breath whenever oil ministers meet in some exotic foreign locale?'' he asked.
 Asked why President Bush had not set up so ambitious a policy, Mr. Pataki said that the Bush administration had made major progress. In fact, Mr. Pataki's plan shares many elements with a variety of proposals made by elected officials since gasoline hit $3 a gallon.
 On a particularly contentious oil issue, whether drilling should be allowed in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, he said that drilling in American territory should be expanded but that he could not rule anything in or out. He also said he did not favor increasing the federal gasoline tax, a step that economists say would encourage people to use less gasoline.
 Mr. Pataki said he was studying whether carbon dioxide, a global warming gas emitted by power plants, could be captured and permanently stored underground, perhaps in old oil fields where it would force more oil to the surface. He added that New York, with his support, was one of seven Northeastern states that signed an agreement last December that seeks to limit carbon dioxide output from power plants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); ETHANOL (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); BIOMASS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); WORLD WAR II (55%); HEZBOLLAH (52%); LEGISLATION (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Election Issues; Conservation of Resources; Energy Efficiency

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) Matthew L Wald; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



161 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Arms Exporter Faults U.S. Sanctions

BYLINE: COMPILED BY MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

 BODY:
A summary of the top stories in Russian Newspapers on Tuesday. 

VEDOMOSTI
SANCTIONS HARM UNITED STATES--RUSSIAN ARMS DEALS: Sergei Chemezov, the general director of the Russian state arms exporter, Rosoboronexport, said Monday that sanctions levied against his company by the United States have disrupted plans to supply arms to Iraq and Afghanistan. Washington announced Friday that it would apply sanctions to both Rosoboronexport and another Russian arms supplier, Sukhoi, for selling restricted weapons to Iran. Ruslan Pukhkov from the Center for Analysis of Technology and Strategy, however, believes that because of rampant corruption in Iraq and Afghanistan supplying these countries would not generate substantial gains for Russian companies. 


KOMMERSANT
INFLATION ON THE RISE: The level of inflation in Russia reached 0.7 percent in June, overshooting even the most pessimistic estimates. Government officials are now predicting a rate of 9 percent for the year, though experts like Deutsche UFGs chief economist, Yaroslav Lisovolik, and his colleague from Renaissance Capital, Vladimir Pantyshin, believe it will go higher. These experts also doubt predictions that the ruble will strengthen to 26.2 against the dollar. This situation mirrors that of last year, the newspaper says, and may lead to a political problem by fall.

NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA
FROM THE YELLOW SEA TO THE NEVA BANKS: The list of Chinese investors financing a $1.5 billion development project in St. Petersburg was completed at the end of July. The Chinatown project, which includes building more than one million square meters of housing and 400,000 square meters of commercial space for Chinese companies, may lead to massive Chinese migration to the city, the newspaper says. Chinese investors are also bidding on construction permits for the Orlov tunnel, which will span the Neva River in St. Petersburg. In addition, construction will begin in 2007 on a Chinese business center in Moscow.

ROSSIISKAYA GAZETA
YANUKOVICHS FIRST DAY: In the first session of the new Ukrainian government on Monday, the newly elected prime minister, Viktor F. Yanukovich, spoke of his friendship with President Viktor A. Yushchenko, emphasizing the presidents important political role and hinting that he would support Mr. Yushchenko in future elections. Mr. Yanukovich named his pre-election supporters to all key cabinet posts, leading the newspaper to conclude that the president has lost control of the government.

IZVESTIA
IMPROVING SOCIETAL MORALITY: Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky, the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia, has proposed a law that would require all Russian civil servants to be married, have at least two children and, for males, to have served in the military. The laws purpose, according to Mr. Zhirinovsky, is to improve the moral climate of society. If this proposal becomes law, the newspaper says, all the countrys ills will disappear.

VREMYA NOVOSTEI
HERMITAGE HEIST SUSPECTS ARRESTED: A St. Petersburg court filed charges on Monday against two of the three suspects detained for stealing 221 exhibit items from the State Hermitage Museum. The two include the widower of a Hermitage curator and an antiquities dealer. Law enforcement officials have promised to bring charges against the third suspect, the deceased curators son, by today. Investigators discovered around 100 receipts from pawnshops for jewelry and Russian art in the curators apartment, though it is unclear whether items from the museum were among those sold.

GAZETA
TSARS LEGACY STILL UNDECIDED: The Moscow City Court on Monday annulled an earlier decision by a regional court preventing the rehabilitation of Tsar Nikolai II and his family, who were executed in Yekaterinburg in 1918. Ancestors of the royal family, in particular, Grand Duchess Maria Vladimirovna, wish for the Russian government to classify the last tsar and his family as victims of political repression. The case will now return to the regional court for further hearings.

CAUGHT IN THE ACT: The final decision on who will host the 2014 Winter Olympics will not be made until next July, but officials in Sochi are already trying to make illegal profits on the citys potential selection. Sergei Evdokimenko, deputy head of the Krasnodar regions estate administration, is charged with accepting a nearly $500,000 bribe, after he was set up by a local businessman. When it became clear to Viktor Babii, a seafood company director, that he would be unable to come up with the bribe that Mr. Evdokimenko demanded in exchange for Olympic construction contracts, he appealed to the Interior Ministry. Mr. Evdokimenko was arrested after Mr. Babii handed him the bribe money as Interior Ministry officials watched via hidden camera.

NOVYE IZVESTIA
RUSSIA LOW ON FREEDOM INDEX: According to the 2006 World Freedom Index released Monday, Russia ranks 124th out of 159 countries, falling between the Central African Republic and Egypt on the basis of economic freedoms, freedom of the press and human rights. The director of the Russian Institute of Human Rights, Valentin Gefter, believes the index would be more accurate if it employed different scales for developed democracies, transitional democracies and nondemocracies. Estonia surprisingly, the newspaper says ranked first on the index.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (94%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); BUILDING PERMITS (64%); LEGISLATION (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); LITIGATION (61%); ARRESTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) PACIFIC OCEAN (55%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); CHINA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



162 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Cuban Officials Say Castro Is Recovering and the Nation Is Stable 

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 7 

 BODY:
High-ranking Cuban officials worked hard Monday to put out the message that Cuba was stable after the transfer of power from Fidel Castro to his younger brother last week. 
 Fidel Castro has remained out of the public eye since undergoing surgery a week ago for an undisclosed illness that involved intestinal bleeding. For the first time in his 47 years as Cuba's authoritarian leader, Mr. Castro relinquished power, to his brother Raul, who is the defense minister, along with a cadre of cabinet officials. The government has said Fidel Castro's health is ''a state secret.''
Although no detailed information on Mr. Castro's illness or a prognosis for him has been released, the president of the National Assembly, Ricardo Alarcon, and the minister in charge of the island's economy, Carlos Lage Davila, both said Monday that he was recovering rapidly. 
 Speaking in Bogota, Colombia, where he was attending the swearing in of President Alvaro Uribe, Mr. Lage said Mr. Castro would be able to return to his duties ''in a short time,'' according to Mexico's and Cuba's official news agencies. He said the Cuban leader ''finds himself well cared for in a hospital and has been conscious the whole time.''
 Mr. Alarcon, meanwhile, scoffed at Cuban exiles in Miami and conservatives in Washington who believe the Communist government cannot long survive without Mr. Castro at the helm.
 ''All those who have been dreaming, or trying to fool the world and put out the idea that something terrible would happen in Cuba, that people would take to the streets, that there would be great instability, all those, the door slammed on them and they must have swollen hands now,'' Mr. Alarcon said, speaking on the Venezuelan network Telesur.
 On Friday, Cuba's health minister, Jose Ramon Balaguer Cabrera, also said that Mr. Castro was ''recuperating satisfactorily.'' His comments came as he visited Guatemala for the opening of a hospital built with Cuban aid.
 Over the weekend, other rumors swirled through Latin America about the leftist icon's health. The Brazilian newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo reported that Cuban authorities had told the Brazilian president that Mr. Castro had cancer and would not return to his duties, a reOne member of Cuba's Council of State, or cabinet, Roberto Fernandez Retamar, told reporters at a news conference in Havana that the country had set in motion a peaceful political succession. It was not clear whether he meant that the transfer of power to Raul Castro would turn out to be permanent, but the statement was clearly meant to suggest that the Castro government was not about to crumble.
 Mr. Fernandez Retamar, a writer, told Reuters, speaking of American officials: ''They had not expected that a peaceful succession was possible. A peaceful succession has taken place.''
 President Bush, meanwhile, at a news conference in Crawford, Tex., spoke of the United States' desire to see Cuba change from a one-party autocracy to a democracy with freedom of speech and competing political parties.
 The United States has kept up an economic embargo of the island for more than four decades and the Bush administration, like nine others before it, has made it known that it would welcome democracy in Cuba. Still, American officials said last week that there were no plans to interfere with the current transition of power, nor are there plans to invade the island, something Cuba's propaganda machine warns of constantly. 
 ''Our desire for the Cuban people is to be able to choose their own form of government,'' Mr. Bush said. He added: ''Cuba has the possibility of transforming itself from a tyrannical situation to a different type of society. The Cuban people ought to decide.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); NEWS REPORTING (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (65%); WRITERS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%) Cuban-Americans; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Biographical Information; Freedom and Human Rights; Freedom of Speech and Expression

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (94%); RAUL CASTRO (89%); ALVARO URIBE (53%) James C Jr Mckinley; Fidel (Pres) Castro; Raul Castro; Ricardo Alarcon; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (76%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (52%) CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); MEXICO (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%) Cuba; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006



163 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Spending on Technology Lifts Cisco's Profit

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 8 

 BODY:
The Internet equipment maker Cisco Systems reported fourth-quarter earnings yesterday that exceeded analysts' forecasts, citing strong demand for its products from telecommunications service providers and large corporations. 
 For the quarter ended July 29, Cisco reported profit of $1.5 billion, or 25 cents a share, compared with $1.3 billion, or 20 cents a share, for the same period a year ago. Those figures include one-time charges and expenses related to stock options.
When those charges are excluded, Cisco reported profits of 30 cents a share. On that basis, a consensus of Wall Street analysts had projected that Cisco would earn 28 cents a share.
 Cisco reported sales of $7.98 billion for the quarter. A year earlier, the company posted sales of $6.6 billion. Since then, it has completed its acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta Inc., a maker of television set-top boxes. Scientific-Atlanta added $582 million to Cisco's sales in the fourth quarter.
 ''The numbers are as strong an upside compared to consensus as we've seen in a while'' at Cisco, said Bert Hochfeld, an analyst with Hochfeld Independent Research Group.
 Cisco's results are improving as corporations continue to increase spending on technology and network infrastructure. But John T. Chambers, the chief executive of Cisco, said the quarterly results were more of a reflection on the company's own execution and performance than on broader demand.
 The results come as Cisco continues to struggle to regain the enormous momentum it experienced during the dot-com boom. Increasingly, analysts see Cisco as a mature technology company, trying to build revenue and profits incrementally and through acquisitions, rather than expanding through innovation.
 Shares of Cisco soared nearly 10 percent after the market closed, when the results were released. In regular trading, the stock fell 12 cents to close at $17.29. In the last year, the share price has languished, jumping briefly to around $22 in the early spring, but now closer to its 52-week low of $16.83.
 The company said that during the first fiscal quarter it expected its sales to be 19 percent to 21 percent higher than the same period a year ago. That figure drops to 10 percent to 15 percent growth when the sales of Scientific-Atlanta are excluded.
 For its full fiscal 2007, Cisco said it expects sales to be 15 percent to 20 percent higher than for 2006. That projection drops to 10 percent to 15 percent when Scientific-Atlanta is excluded.
 Mr. Chambers said Scientific-Atlanta sold 1.44 million digital set-top boxes in the fourth quarter, an increase of 33 percent over the same period a year ago.
 He said demand for Cisco's core products, like the routers and switches used to direct Internet traffic, also rose. And he said demand was strong in virtually every major economy; order growth rose 20 percent in the Asia-Pacific region, 40 percent in China, in the high single digits in Europe and in the high teens in North America.
 For its full fiscal 2006, Cisco reported sales of $28.5 billion, of which Scientific-Atlanta contributed $989 million. That compared with sales of $24.8 billion in fiscal 2005. Full-year 2006 profit was $5.6 billion, or 89 cents a share, figures that include expenses related to employee stock options. During fiscal 2005, Cisco's profits were $4.7 billion, or 71 cents a share.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cisco headquarters in San Jose, Calif. Fourth-quarter earnings exceeded analysts' expectations. (Photo by Paul Sakuma/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (72%); TECHNOLOGY MATURITY (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Company Reports ; Computers and the Internet; Sales

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (97%); SCIENTIFIC-ATLANTA INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Cisco Systems

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (97%); NAICS334515 INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING & TESTING ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (94%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3825 INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASURING & TESTING OF ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (94%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (94%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (94%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (58%) Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (77%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (64%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



164 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

FED PAUSES ON RATES The Federal Reserve suspended its two-year campaign of raising interest rates, a long-awaited policy shift based on the hope that a modest economic slowdown will subdue inflation without much pain. The shift amounts to a bet by the Fed's new chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, above, on one of the most elusive goals in monetary policy -- a ''soft landing'' for the economy. [Page A1.] 


STOCKS FAIL TO REBOUND Stocks dropped for a third day on the prospect that the Federal Reserve may resume raising interest rates later this year. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 4.29 points, to 1,271.48. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 45.79 points, to 11,173.59. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 11.65, to 2,060.85. [C11.]

SEARCH ENGINES AS VOYEURS AOL over the weekend removed detailed records of searches conducted by 657,000 Americans and apologized for their release, but the records, copies of which continue to circulate, underscore how much people unintentionally reveal about themselves when they use search engines. [A1.]

WORRIES OVER GAS PRICES Car owners braced themselves for another smack in the face at the gasoline pump, as the shutdown of the giant Prudhoe Bay oil field in Alaska rippled through energy markets and consumer psyches. [A14.]

CABLEVISION TO RESTATE EARNINGS Cablevision Systems, the nation's third-largest cable operator, joined the growing ranks of companies that have announced plans to restate earnings because of questions about the timing of stock option grants. Market Place. [C1.]

BANK EXPANSION SEEN SLOWING Big banks have been on a branch building binge, trying to grab and hold onto customers. But this recent push may be nearing its end. [C1.]

GOT A MILK REVIEW? Few sites have given customer product reviews more prominence than Amazon.com. But how much can one possibly say about milk? Apparently a fair bit -- particularly if the objective is to subvert the spirit of customer reviews in the service of Internet high jinks. Such appears to be the explanation behind hundreds of reviews at Amazon for a $3.99 gallon of Tuscan-brand whole milk. [C1.]

TRANSLATING TV IN CHINA Dozens of people working in teams all over China spend night after night as volunteers creating Chinese subtitles for American sitcoms and dramas for a mushrooming audience of viewers there who download them from the Internet free through services like BitTorrent. [A6.]

GENERIC RIVAL FOR PLAVIX The generic drug maker Apotex began shipping a cheaper alternative to Plavix, the anticlotting agent that is one of the world's best-selling drugs, in an embarrassing setback for the drug's brand-name marketers, Sanofi-Aventis and Bristol-Myers Squibb, after their attempt to settle the dispute backfired [C1.]

SMOKELESS TOBACCO PUSH Faced with proliferating smoking bans and declining cigarette consumption, Philip Morris USA and the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company are test-marketing new smokeless tobacco products, as is the U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company, the industry leader. Advertising. [C5.]

TRACKING MEDICAL DEVICES Federal regulators are moving toward requiring the industry and hospitals to adopt a universal system for using bar codes or other technology to identify individual devices. [C6.]

INTEL CHOSEN FOR HIGH-SPEED NET Sprint Nextel, the cellular carrier, said it would use Intel's WiMax technology in building a high-speed wireless data network with connection speeds about five times those currently available. [C7.]

ONLINE

MUSEUM EXHIBITS A ghastly underground mini-industry has emerged in China, preparing human corpses for museum exhibitions. A report by David Barboza of The Times is at nytimes.com/business.

AMERICA'S MISSING MEN Millions of men in the prime of their lives, between 30 and 55, have dropped out of regular work. Louis Uchitelle of The Times talks with one of them at nytimes.com/business.

ONLINE: DEALBOOK A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

Business Briefing
 Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

THE NETWORK EQUIPMENT MAKER Brocade Communications Systems agreed to pay $713 million for a smaller rival, the McData Corporation, in an all-stock deal. But the deal lost some luster, as Brocade's shares tumbled $1.13, to $5.01. (AP)

THE DIRECTV GROUP, the satellite television provider, said second-quarter profit almost tripled after it raised prices, but the number of new subscribers missed analysts' estimates. Net income rose to $458.7 million, from $161.5 million a year earlier. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

A METAL PRODUCTS MAKER, Aleris International, agreed to be acquired for $1.7 billion by an equity firm, the Texas Pacific Group. (AP)

A THIRD PROXY ADVISORY FIRM, Glass, Lewis & Company, recommended that shareholders of H. J. Heinz Company approve the dissident Nelson Peltz for its board. That made it likely that he and his dissident group will win at least one board seat, analysts said. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Bristol-Myers shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (88%); GENERIC DRUGS (88%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); SEARCH ENGINES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (71%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE (71%); MILK (71%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (63%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (62%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (62%); SMOKING (60%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (60%); ANTICOAGULANTS (60%); SMOKING BANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (80%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (51%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (80%); SANF (BIT) (80%); SAN (PAR) (80%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (80%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); BMY (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



165 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Text of Fed's Statement on Rates

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to leave interest rates unchanged
 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate at 5 1/4 percent.
Economic growth has moderated from its quite strong pace earlier this year, partly reflecting a gradual cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices.
 Readings on core inflation have been elevated in recent months, and the high levels of resource utilization and of the prices of energy and other commodities have the potential to sustain inflation pressures. However, inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time, reflecting contained inflation expectations and the cumulative effects of monetary policy actions and other factors restraining aggregate demand.
 Nonetheless, the committee judges that some inflation risks remain. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information.
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Jack Guynn; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Sandra Pianalto; Kevin M. Warsh; and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against was Jeffrey M. Lacker, who preferred an increase of 25 basis points in the federal funds rate target at this meeting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (73%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); KEVIN WARSH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



166 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: UConn Decides to Build Its Own College Town

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

DATELINE: STORRS, Conn. 

 BODY:
Colleges have traditionally tempted top students with ivy-covered campuses, towering Gothic buildings and up-to-date student centers. But nowadays, there is a sense that a beautiful campus is not enough. An alluring college town is seen as necessary as well.
 In Columbus, Ohio, the City Council acknowledged that in 2002 when it adopted ''A Plan for High Street: Creating a 21st-Century Main Street,'' which includes a $130 million mixed-use development for the two-mile stretch of the street that runs past Ohio State University. At the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, university officials announced plans in June to demolish a section of the north side of a main artery, Walnut Street, and add a $75 million development of midrise apartments and retail space. 
 After the state committed to spend more than $2 billion for improvements to all its campuses, the University of Connecticut decided on a sweeping project at its main campus in this hamlet in the still-rural town of Mansfield. Working with local officials, it plans to demolish the meager downtown, which looks more like a makeshift set for a Hollywood western than a New England college center, and build a town from scratch. 
 Construction of the development, called Storrs Center, is scheduled to begin next year. The project will include up to 300 market-rate rental housing units, up to 500 residential units for purchase, about 200,000 square feet of retail and restaurant space, 40,000 to 75,000 square feet of office space and 5,000 to 25,000 square feet of civic and community space. A town square will be at its core, mimicking the greens at the center of hundreds of New England villages.
 Of the 49-acre project, just 15 acres will be developed, a little less than is currently in use. The rest will be preserved for conservation. 
 The development will incorporate existing town buildings and sit directly across the street from the university's still-in-progress Fine Arts Center, designed by the architect Frank Gehry in association with Herbert S. Newman & Partners of New Haven. The Newman firm is also the architect for Storrs Center. 
 ''Students came and saw there was no sense of place,'' said Macon C. Toledano, the Storrs Center project manager for LeylandAlliance, a development company in Tuxedo, N.Y. 
 ''This project offers an incredible opportunity to bring together families who live in the town, retired and working professors, and students,'' Mr. Toledano said. ''It depends upon appealing to this broad spectrum, and the more you do it, the more vital it will be.''
 LeylandAlliance adheres to the tenets of New Urbanism, which advocates walkable neighborhoods and traditional housing. 
 Storrs Center has a projected cost of $165 million. On top of that, LeylandAlliance, through the Mansfield Downtown Partnership, a consortium that includes the developer, the town and the university, is seeking about 10 percent in grants from the state and the federal government. These would be used to improve Route 195, which runs past the campus; to build a municipal parking garage with about 1,000 spaces; and to help raze eight commercial buildings. 
 Among them is a strip mall that fronts directly on Route 195, where matchstick blinds hang from the front of a porch characterized by splintering wood and the need for several coats of varnish. ''Bruces Noveltys'' is lettered crudely on one display window, which otherwise allows a view of an empty interior.
 Some other storefronts are also vacant. But a pizza restaurant, convenience store, travel agency and florist are still thriving there. Several stores are set into the back of the building as well, including a used-book store, a hair salon, a barber shop and a tattoo parlor.
 Down the street, Cynthia van Zelm, executive director of the Mansfield Downtown Partnership, and Mansfield's mayor, Elizabeth C. Paterson, recently walked along part of the perimeter of the project.
 ''The idea is to change Route 195 from a highway to a main street,'' Ms. Paterson said, as she watched cars whiz by. 
 Interest in the new development on the part of potential residents has been high, Ms. van Zelm said. ''People who are ready to downsize, and who like the idea of being close to the School of Fine Arts, are interested,'' she said. ''The location is so great; you can walk to everything.'' 
 The town of Mansfield hopes to gain $3 million to $4 million in property taxes annually from the project, said the town manager, Martin Berliner.
 ''That's very important in a state that doesn't provide for any other tax sources for municipalities,'' Mr. Berliner said. ''But also as important is providing a sense of community that we don't have now. Providing the downtown will help the university continue to move forward.''
 Historically an agricultural college, the university now has more than 16,000 undergraduates and about 6,000 graduate students. It has been trying to shed its cow-college image since 1995, when the state passed UConn 2000, a $1 billion, 10-year program to renovate the main campus and five regional campuses -- Groton, West Hartford, Stamford, Torrington and Waterbury -- along with the law school in Hartford and the medical center in Farmington.
 An extension of that project, 21st Century UConn, added another $1 billion to construction efforts on the main campus. Victorious men's and women's basketball teams have bestowed a national reputation. But as cows continue to graze on the east side of Route 195, the downtown holds on to the old image. 
 University officials conduct a survey every two years of 9,000 undergraduate applicants who have been admitted; in any given year, about one-third attend and two-thirds decide to go elsewhere. The surveys indicate that the lack of a college town was the primary reason that students chose another university, said M. Dolan Evanovich, the vice provost for enrollment management at the university.
 Mr. Evanovich believes he is a prime example of why the university needs a town. When he moved to Connecticut almost five years ago, he and his wife, Suzan, decided they wanted to raise their children in a college town and bought a house on university property.
 ''We found out there was a college, but no town,'' Mr. Evanovich said. ''It's beyond time that Storrs should have a town.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Elizabeth Paterson, left, mayor of Mansfield, Conn., and Cynthia van Zelm, director of the downtown partnership, at a university kiosk. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)
 Plans for the Storrs Center development at the University of Connecticut call for residential, retail and office space, as well as a town square. (Photo by Herbert S. Newman & Partners)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (67%) Colleges and Universities; Area Planning and Renewal; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%) University of Connecticut

PERSON: Jane Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) OHIO, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%) Storrs (Conn); Storrs (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



167 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall as Investors Doubt Fed Is Done

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks dropped for a third day on concern that the Federal Reserve may resume raising interest rates this year after leaving them unchanged yesterday. Bonds and the dollar were little changed after the Fed's decision.
 The central bank left the target rate for overnight bank loans unchanged at 5.25 percent after a string of consecutive increases since June 2004.
Stocks initially rose to the day's highs after the announcement, but then retreated as policy makers, in a statement, said, ''Some inflation risks remain'' that may lead to higher rates. 
 ''The Fed didn't firmly say, 'We're on the sidelines,' '' said Jeffrey Applegate, who oversees about $40 billion as chief investment officer at the Fiduciary Trust Company in New York. 
 ''They're not done -- that's what the market is saying,'' he said.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 4.29 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,271.48. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 45.79 points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,173.59. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 11.65, or 0.6 percent, to 2,060.85.
 A government report earlier yesterday added to evidence that inflation was accelerating. Labor costs in the second quarter increased at 4.2 percent, the fastest pace since 2004, the Labor Department said. Worker productivity rose at an annual rate of 1.1 percent, down from a revised 4.3 percent in the first period.
 A gauge of 16 homebuilders in the S.& P. 500 tumbled 3.6 percent. KB Home lost $2.08, or 4.5 percent, to $44.45 for one of the biggest declines in the S.& P. 500. Pulte Homes, the largest homebuilder by market value, lost $1.09, to $30.
 Stocks of retailers also declined. Home Depot slipped 36 cents, to $34.33. Target declined 80 cents, to $45.94. Wal-Mart Stores slid 36 cents, to $44.46.
 Bristol-Myers Squibb lost $1.56, or 6.9 percent, to $21.21 for one of the biggest losses in the S.& P. 500. The company and its partner in developing the Plavix blood thinner, Sanofi-Aventis, will face generic competition in the United States five years earlier than planned. Apotex, a closely held Canadian maker of generic drugs, said it started shipping copies of Plavix yesterday.
 Amid concern about a slowing economy, utilities and makers of consumer staples gained as investors sought shares less swayed by fluctuations in growth. Utilities in the S.& P. 500 rose 0.8 percent. Duke Energy advanced 40 cents, to $30.31. PG& E, the owner of California's biggest utility, added 46 cents, to $40.90.
 Crude oil fell on speculation that United States stockpiles are adequate to make up for the supply disruptions caused by the shutdown of Alaska's Prudhoe Bay oil field. Crude oil for September delivery fell 68 cents to close at $76.30 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices are up 19 percent from a year earlier.
 The United States dollar initially dropped on the Fed's decision and then rebounded as traders speculated that another rate increase might be possible as soon as next month.
 The dollar has lost about 8 percent this year against the euro and 2 percent versus the yen on speculation that the Federal reserve will end its rate increases.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was unchanged at 101 18/32, as was the yield, at 4.92 percent.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.600
High Rate: 5.135
Coupon Yield: 5.227
Low Rate: 5.090
Median Rate: 5.120
Total applied for: $67,312,933
Accepted: $27,258,883
Noncompetitive: $435,607

The four-week bills mature Sept. 07, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); GENERIC DRUGS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); ANTICOAGULANTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); RETAILERS (67%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (67%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (65%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Interest Rates; Credit; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (81%); FIDUCIARY TRUST CO OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (56%); FIDUCIARY TRUST CO INTERNATIONAL (56%); KB HOME CORP (53%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%); PULTEGROUP INC (53%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (52%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (50%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (81%); SANF (BIT) (81%); SAN (PAR) (81%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (81%); KBH (NYSE) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (53%); PHM (NYSE) (53%); BMY (NYSE) (52%); DUK (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (53%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



168 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Planning Groups Say Region Must Rethink Policies on Land Use 

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
The New York region, faced with some of the highest housing costs in the country, needs to radically rethink its approach to land use, transportation and school finance, according to a report being released today by two planning and advocacy groups with extensive ties to civic, business and academic leaders and policy makers.
 The report, by the Citizens Housing and Planning Council and the Regional Plan Association, said the region needed to reduce its reliance on suburban single-family homes and begin promoting two-family houses, garage apartments and the redevelopment of cities like Newark, Bridgeport and Yonkers as future sources of housing, among other steps. 
It also said that states and towns should move away from their traditional use of property tax revenues to finance public education -- a practice that has encouraged many towns to exclude certain types of lower-cost housing, like apartments, and certain groups, like lower-income families, thought to consume more in school costs than they pay in taxes.
 ''We don't have the land for development, we don't have the highway capacity for suburban development, and issues of congestion and the loss of open space are becoming more important to people in suburban communities,'' said Christopher Jones, vice president for research at the Regional Plan Association. ''We really do need a different approach if we're going to provide the housing for what's estimated to be three to four million people over the next 25 years.''
 Frank Braconi, chief economist for the New York City comptroller's office, who worked on the report in his previous job as executive director of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council, said: ''We're all in this boat together. The main competition is not New York City versus suburban areas. We're competing against other world centers, other super-regions. The super-regions that get their acts together in a coordinated way are going to be the winners.''
 The report, more than a year in the making, is said to be the first to take such a broad and comprehensive approach to the complex housing challenges facing the city and its surrounding suburbs and smaller cities.
 While rising home prices have benefited millions of families, they have made it harder for young people, single people, immigrants and lower-income families to find a foothold on the economic ladder, the report said. Commuting times have gotten longer and illegal housing has proliferated. The number of elderly people, immigrants and one-person households in the region is rising, it said, but their housing options have shrunk.
 Smaller cities with good transportation infrastructure and land available for redevelopment could be a source of additional housing without contributing to sprawl, the report says. ''Accessory units,'' like apartments in private houses and above garages, currently prohibited in many places, could provide low-cost housing without changing neighborhood character if such units were made legal.
 The report calls for mixed-income development around the region's 300 transit stations (areas known as ''transit villages''); the opening of rental housing in town centers to invigorate local shopping districts and add life to main streets after hours; and the creation of programs that link open-space preservation initiatives, popular with voters, to the development of higher-density, lower-cost housing in other areas.
 ''I think that much of what they say is absolutely true,'' said Robert W. Burchell, director of the Center for Urban Policy Research at Rutgers University. He said most people approaching retirement were likely to stay in the region: ''This generation is not going to retire on the 17th hole. They are looking for college towns, interesting suburbs, new concentrations of mixed use in these locations.''
 The report, to be posted on each group's Web site, points out that government's influence on the housing market goes beyond land-use regulations: Decisions about transportation infrastructure and public-school finance shape where and what kind of housing is built. After several decades of suburban job growth, the report suggests, new suburban job centers need to be linked to the regional transit system.
 Improvements in transportation need to be evaluated in light of the type of housing development they will trigger, the two groups said. They call for strong financial support for several proposed regional transportation projects that could create opportunities for ''transit-oriented housing.'' They said the region's major transit agencies should also have ''stable, sufficient operating and capital subsidies.''
 The report says that even a good private housing finance system will not produce new housing affordable to low- and moderate-income households; only government loans and grants will do that, it asserts. The two groups recommend tax credits for employer-assisted housing; acquisition funds to allow nonprofit groups to purchase and preserve existing low-rent housing; and state housing trust funds that can be used to create mixed-income housing.
 ''There's not one stick of housing built new that's not subsidized or not being provided by a nonprofit or some public subsidy for those below 80 percent of median income,'' Mr. Burchell said. In New York City, he said, 70 percent of the demand for housing comes from households with incomes below 135 percent of the median, but 100 percent of the supply of new market-rate housing is for people with incomes above 135 percent.
 The report will first be sent to the wide array of people on the two organizations' boards and advisory committees, Mr. Jones said. Their joint regional housing advisory committee, for example, is made up of 33 people, including bankers, planners, city housing officials, scholars and housing advocates.
 ''I think they did a very good job,'' said Marian Zucker, director of affordable housing for Suffolk County and a member of the advisory committee. ''I haven't seen anything like this done in the New York region.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); SUBURBS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); FAMILY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CITIES (75%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%) Housing; Land Use Policies; Area Planning and Renewal; Housing; Property Taxes; Education and Schools; Transit Systems

ORGANIZATION: Citizens Housing and Planning Council; Regional Plan Assn

PERSON: Janny Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City Metropolitan Area; Newark (NJ) ; Bridgeport (Conn); Yonkers (NY); New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



169 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: It Takes More Than Schools to Close Achievement Gap

BYLINE: By Diana Jean Schemo

 BODY:
WHEN the federal Education Department recently reported that children in private schools generally did no better than comparable students at public schools on national tests of math and reading, the findings were embraced by teachers' unions and liberals, and dismissed by supporters of school voucher programs.
 But for many educators and policy makers, the findings raised a haunting question: What if the impediments to learning run so deep that they cannot be addressed by any particular kind of school or any set of in-school reforms? What if schools are not the answer? 
The question has come up before. In 1966, Prof. James S. Coleman published a Congressionally mandated study on why schoolchildren in minority neighborhoods performed at far lower levels than children in white areas. 
 To the surprise of many, his landmark study concluded that although the quality of schools in minority neighborhoods mattered, the main cause of the achievement gap was in the backgrounds and resources of families.
 For years, education researchers have argued over his findings. Conservatives used them to say that the quality of schools did not matter, so why bother offering more than the bare necessities? Others, including some educators, used them essentially to write off children who were harder to educate.
 The No Child Left Behind law, enacted in 2002, took a stand on this issue. The law, one instance in which President Bush and Congressional Democrats worked together, rests on the premise that schools make the crucial difference. It holds a school alone responsible if the students -- whatever social, economic, physical or intellectual handicaps they bring to their classrooms -- fail to make sufficient progress every year. 
 Yet a growing body of research suggests that while schools can make a difference for individual students, the fabric of children's lives outside of school can either nurture, or choke, what progress poor children do make academically. 
 At Johns Hopkins University, two sociologists, Doris Entwisle and Karl Alexander, collected a trove of data on Baltimore schoolchildren who began first grade in 1982. They found that contrary to expectations, children in poverty did largely make a year of progress for each year in school. 
 But poor children started out behind their peers, and the problems compounded when school ended for the summer. Then, middle-class children would read books, attend camp and return to school in September more advanced than when they left. But poorer children tended to stagnate. ''The long summer break is especially hard for disadvantaged children,'' Professor Alexander said. ''Some school is good, and more is better.''
 ''Family really is important, and it's very hard for schools to offset or compensate fully for family disadvantage,'' he said.
 In Chicago, a court order to empty public housing projects, which dispersed families and children into the suburbs, led to a rise in children's academic achievement.
 ''The evidence is pretty clear that the better their housing, the better kids do on tests,'' said Jack Jennings, president of the Center on Education Policy, a nonpartisan group.
 In his 2004 book, ''Class and Schools: Using Social, Economic and Educational Reform to Close the Black-White Achievement Gap,'' Richard Rothstein, a former writer of this column, argues that reforms aimed at education alone are doomed to come up short, unless they are tied to changes in economic and social policies to lessen the gaps children face outside the classroom. 
 A lack of affordable housing makes poorer children more transient, and so more prone to switch schools midyear, losing progress. Higher rates of lead poisoning, asthma and inadequate pediatric care also fuel low achievement, along with something as basic as the lack of eyeglasses. Even the way middle- and lower-class parents read to their children is different, he writes, making learning more fun and creative for wealthier children. 
 ''I would never say public schools can't do better,'' Mr. Rothstein said. ''I'd say they can't do much better,'' unless lawmakers address the social ills caused by poverty.
 FOR many children in America, public schools are not lacking. A 2001 international reading test put Americans ninth out of students in 35 nations. But only students in Sweden, the Netherlands and England had scores more than marginally higher than the United States average. 
 More important, the average score of the 58 percent of American students attending schools that were not predominantly poor surpassed that of Sweden, the top-scoring nation. 
 But for the 42 percent of American students attending the poor schools that are the principal target of No Child Left Behind, the inequities remain. Blacks and Latinos lag more than two years behind white students in math on national assessment tests. In reading, which is more influenced by family background, blacks and Latinos fall three years behind whites.
 Yet these gaps have shrunk considerably since 1992, when blacks were 3.5 years behind whites in math. Since 1973, when the federal government began collecting these scores, black 9-year-olds have gained roughly 3.5 grade levels in math, narrowing the achievement gap, even though white scores were also rising at the same time. The cause of these improvements is unclear, although some are most likely related to state efforts, especially in the last 15 years. 
 A $100 million school voucher bill sponsored by Republicans gives vouchers a prominent place in next year's debate over renewing No Child Left Behind. But other voices are likely to call for a sense of responsibility for improving children's academic success that does not begin and end at the schoolhouse door.
 ''It can't just be a burden on the schools to do away with social inequality,'' said Mr. Jennings, of the education policy center. ''It has to be a burden on all of us.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (73%); SUBURBS (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%) Education and Schools; Private and Sectarian Schools; Tests and Testing; Mathematics; Reading and Writing Skills

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (92%) Education Dept

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%) Diana Jean Schemo

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (67%) MARYLAND, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



170 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Payments To Doctors Face Cuts

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 8 

 BODY:
The Bush administration on Tuesday proposed a cut of 5.1 percent across the board in Medicare payments for services provided by doctors to elderly and disabled patients in 2007. 
 It said the cut was required because spending on doctors' services was increasing faster than expected, and faster than the annual goals set by a statutory formula.
 The increase directly affects beneficiaries because their premiums are set each year to cover about 25 percent of projected spending under Part B of Medicare, which pays for doctors' services and other outpatient care. 
 Dr. Mark B. McClellan, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said Tuesday that the premium would probably rise to $98.40 next year, up $9.90 or 11 percent over this year's premium. The figures do not include separate premiums paid by many beneficiaries for prescription drug coverage.
 ''Our current system of paying for physician services is simply not sustainable, from the point of view of taxpayers or Medicare beneficiaries,'' Dr. McClellan said. 
 The White House, Congress and doctors have been talking for more than a year about ways to link Medicare payments to the quality of care doctors provide. To date, they have not offered any specific proposals and are still seeking ways to measure the quality of care, particularly for medical specialists.
 More than 42 million people are insured by Medicare. Officials estimate that the program will pay $61.5 billion to 875,000 doctors and other health care professionals next year.
 Such spending has increased sharply in recent years, Dr. McClellan said, because of ''increases in the number and complexity of services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries, including more frequent and intensive office visits, and rapid growth in the use of imaging techniques, laboratory services and physician-administered drugs.''
 Budget estimates are based on the assumption that doctors' fees under Medicare will be cut in 2007 and later years, as required under the statutory formula. Congress often steps in to block or moderate such cuts, but it normally looks for some way to offset the cost of its action, often by trimming payments to other health care providers.
 Dr. McClellan said it would cost the government $13 billion over five years if it blocked the cut scheduled for 2007, without giving doctors any allowance for inflation. The costs would ripple through later years because future updates would be computed from a higher starting point.
 Federal officials contend that many doctors partly offset cuts in their Medicare fees by performing more services. Donald B. Marron, acting director of the Congressional Budget Office, said substantial evidence suggested that ''a reduction in payment rates leads physicians to increase the volume and intensity of the services they perform.'' But, Mr. Marron cautioned, some ''are likely to respond to continuing reductions in payment rates by declining to participate in the Medicare program.''
 The Bush administration also announced that it would require hospitals to provide the government with information on their ''investment and compensation relationships with physicians.'' Hospitals that specialize in cardiac, orthopedic or surgical care will have to inform patients if any staff doctors have ''an investment interest'' in the hospital. 
 Hospitals look to doctors as a source of referrals. But Medicare officials said doctors could be violating federal law if they received financial returns out of proportion to their investments -- if, for example, a doctor held 2 percent of the stock in a specialty hospital but received 8 percent of the profits.
 Hospitals that do not comply with the new disclosure requirements will face civil fines up to $10,000 a day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); MEDICAID (58%) 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



171 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Gasoline Prices, Still Rising, Alter the Habits of Many, but Far From All 

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Reporting for this article was contributed by Katie Zezima from Boston, Katie Kelley from Denver, Thayer Evans from Houston, Regan Morris from Los Angeles and Michael Amon from West New York, N.J.

DATELINE: DENVER, Aug. 8 

 BODY:
Car owners across the country braced themselves on Tuesday for another smack in the face at the gasoline pump, as the shutdown of the giant Prudhoe Bay oil field in Alaska rippled through energy markets and consumer psyches.
 But Justin Ogle, a newly minted light-rail commuter, was calm. Mr. Ogle and his wife, Lauren, bought a new home two months ago, partly to be near the train tracks.
 ''Rising gas prices are going to force us to be more efficient,'' Mr. Ogle, 29, said, looking up from the newspaper as his train rattled toward downtown Denver, where he works as an architect. 
 Americans are deeply divided in their responses to high gasoline prices, as they are on so many other things, including politics, class and culture. Many say they are using less gasoline, but for every Mr. Ogle, there may well be a Glennis Claxton. Ms. Claxton, a 26-year-old student at Rice University, does not own a car, but she said she had gotten so fried by riding the sweltering buses in Houston that she was thinking of buying one, even with the price of gas what it is.
 Researchers, pollsters and ordinary Americans in interviews on Tuesday said they saw no broad national experience or commonality of sacrifice when it came to gasoline, even when the nation endured a jolt like the one from Alaska.
 Wealthier people have more choices than others in how and whether to adapt -- to drive just as much or buy an expensive hybrid vehicle. Hispanics, lower-income households, urban residents and younger people, according to a national poll by the Pew Research Center, are more likely to change their behavior by carpooling or using mass transit.
 There are often regional disparities, too; the West Coast, for example, is likely to be hit hardest by the closing of Prudhoe Bay, experts said, because the Alaskan oil mostly feeds refineries in the West.
 Even ethanol, the alcohol additive that is being used more frequently as a component in the nation's fuel supply, can be a point of division. Environmentalists like the additive because it pollutes less, but some energy experts say that ethanol-gas mixtures are less efficient as a fuel and may be leading to more gas consumption. Some ethanol is in about a third of the nation's gasoline supply, up sharply from last year.
 In the Pew Research survey of 1,182 Americans -- 1,048 of them drivers -- 55 percent said they were driving less because of the recent increases in gasoline prices. The poll, taken from June 20 to July 16, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. 
 Yet Americans' overall gasoline appetite has barely budged. Total use this year is up about one-half percent to 1 percent compared with 2005, according to federal figures -- a slower rate of growth than in the past, but hardly the mark of a nation with its foot fully on the brake.
 There are anecdotal glimpses of a drop in driving. The number of passengers taking rail service in Los Angeles County in June was up 11 percent from last year. And the number of cars passing through the Eisenhower Tunnel on Interstate 70 in the Colorado Rockies, which has been rising slightly since 2002, fell slightly in July compared with the same time last year. The decrease is the first since 2001, according to the State Department of Transportation.
 Anna Samson, 24, a psychology major at the University of Southern Maine in Portland, said that for her the issue of gasoline supplies came down to milk -- at least this week.
 ''Last night I realized I didn't have milk for breakfast, and that I wasn't going to eat breakfast in the morning,'' Ms. Samson said Tuesday in an interview. ''I wasn't going to go out to get milk because I have to take my car to work, and I didn't want to use the gas.''
 Experts say the apparent paradox of public reaction to price increases -- a majority of people saying they are driving less, but more gas is still being sold year after year -- could be explained by several factors, not the least of which is that people sometimes give pollsters and reporters answers they think are more socially acceptable or expected.
 ''We don't really know the impacts of all these things,'' said John C. Duff, manager of the weekly petroleum status report surveys for the Federal Energy Information Administration. 
 Mr. Duff said that demand for gasoline this year had definitely flattened, compared with previous years' increases, suggesting that some people were using less. But those cutbacks may be overwhelmed by other forces, including bigger cars and more miles being driven by a growing population, and perhaps, he said, reduced mileage from cars burning more ethanol.
 Researchers at Pew say the pattern of consumers using less when high prices linger has been seen before, in the gasoline price spikes of the 1970's and early 1980's. Per capita consumption of gasoline has fairly consistently mirrored the average price per gallon since at least 1977, falling when prices increased, rising when prices fell, according to the Pew study, which is scheduled to be released Wednesday.
 Other experts say the nation's shifting economic, demographic and urban terrain in recent years -- greater disparity of rich and poor than in the 1970's, and more transportation options than a generation ago, including mass transit rail lines in more cities and hybrid cars -- is making this spike different.
 Jose Vargas said he thought the changes he had made to conserve gasoline were probably permanent, for better or worse.
 Mr. Vargas, 45, said he used to hop into his gas-guzzling GMC Jimmy, a sport utility vehicle, and drive to work in downtown Manhattan from his home in West New York, N.J. Now he rides the bus. He used to drive to the beach at Sandy Hook, N.J., about 30 miles away, three or four times a month. Now he mostly stays home.
 Mr. Vargas predicted that gasoline would reach $3.50 a gallon before the end of the month, and he shook his head in disbelief.
 ''It's only going to get more expensive, and once it goes up, it will never come down,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PORTLAND, ME. -- Anna Samson, a college student, said she refrained from driving when possible to save money. (Photo by CJ Gunther for The New York Times)
HOUSTON -- Despite gasoline prices, Glennis Claxton, left, with her son and her mother, says she may buy a car. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)
DENVER -- Light rail is an option for money-conscious commuters. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)Charts/Graphs:In the last few decades, when gasoline prices have risen . . .(Graph tracks price of gas, per gallon, adjusted for inflation since 1980.). . . consumption has often declined.(Graph tracks change in gallons used per capita from previous year since 1980.)More people in rural areas and with lower income have scaled down on driving, according to a recent survey.Percentage who have cut down on driving because of rising gas pricesINCOMEMore than $100,000: 45%$50-$100,000: 56$30-$50,000: 59Less than $30,000: 61AREAUrban: 54%Suburban: 53Rural: 62(Sources by Energy Department
 Pew Research Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); ETHANOL (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); TRAINS (77%); HYBRID VEHICLES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); STATISTICS (71%); CITIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: RICE UNIVERSITY (56%) Bp Plc

PERSON: Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (68%) ALASKA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); MAINE, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%) Alaska; Prudhoe Bay (Alaska)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



172 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Relief Crisis Grips Lebanon; Escalation by Israel Is Seen
A humanitarian crisis deepened across Lebanon amid indications that Israel was preparing for a major escalation as its planes dropped leaflets over the Lebanese city of Tyre warning civilians that any car on the roads south of the Litani River could be bombed. A11

Moderate reformers across the Arab world say that American support for Israel's battle with the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah has put them on the defensive, tarring them by association and boosting Islamist parties. 
 A1

As Israel's war with Hezbollah finishes a fourth week, domestic criticism of its prosecution is growing. Yet the criticism is not that the war is going on, but that it is going poorly as the public wants the army to hit Hezbollah harder, so it will not threaten Israel again. A1

Bank Robbery in Baghdad
Five homemade bombs and a bank robbery left 24 people dead in Baghdad as the level of violence in the city remained undiminished despite a buildup of American and Iraqi troops meant to restore order. A8

A Gathering Threat in India
The bomb attacks last month on seven Mumbai commuter trains underscored a gathering threat for India: a small but deadly cadre of young Indian Muslims who are being drawn into deadly terrorist operations. A3

American TV Has Chinese Fans
The popularity in China of American television shows downloaded from the Internet has created a fierce competition among companies hoping to translate the shows. A6

NATIONAL A12-14

Nation Copes With Closing Of Oil Field in Alaska
Car owners across the country braced themselves as the shutdown of the giant Prudhoe Bay oil field in Alaska rippled through energy markets and consumer psyches. A14

Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman said that the country was prepared to cope with the temporary loss of 400,000 barrels of oil a day from Alaska. A14

Medicare Payments May Be Cut
The Bush administration proposed a cut of 5.1 percent across the board in Medicare payments for services provided by doctors to elderly and disabled patients in 2007. A14

Georgia Congresswoman Loses
Representative Cynthia McKinney lost a Democratic runoff election in Georgia. Ms. McKinney's political future has been uncertain since an encounter she had in March with a Capitol Police officer who had tried to stop her. A14

EDUCATION A15

New Rules for Racial Identity
The Education Department proposed rules that would let students identify themselves by as many racial categories as they want. A12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Plans for Morning-After Pill
Drug regulators and the maker of an emergency contraceptive agreed on a plan that could lead within weeks to over-the-counter sales of the morning-after pill. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Lamont Wins Primary; Lieberman to Stay in Race
Ned Lamont, whose candidacy for the United States Senate soared from nowhere on a fierce antiwar message, claimed a stunning but narrow victory in the Connecticut Democratic primary over the incumbent in the race, Joseph I. Lieberman. The senator declared that he will run for re-election as an independent this fall. A1

Arrest in Officer's Death
A 19-year-old reputed Bloods gang member has been charged in the shotgun slaying of a decorated Police Department detective in Orange, N.J. B1

More Power Lines Sought
The Energy Department has taken the first step toward designating parts of the nation's electric grid as ''critical congestion'' areas, which could force New York and New Jersey to allow construction of new power lines that they do not want. B1

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-6

New N.F.L. Commissioner
Early in his National Football League career Roger Goodell chauffered former Commissioner Pete Rozelle through New Orleans during a Super Bowl. Now he will become the league's fifth commissioner. D1

OBITUARIES C12

John L. Weinberg
An investment banker who ran Goldman Sachs from 1976 to 1990, he was 81. C12

BUSINESS DAY C1-11

Interest Rates Stabilize
The Federal Reserve suspended its two-year campaign of raising interest rates, a long-awaited policy shift based on the hope that a modest economic slowdown will subdue inflation without much pain. A1

Web Searchers, Unmasked
Detailed records of searches conducted by 657,000 Americans underscore how much people unintentionally reveal about themselves when they use search engines -- and how risky it can be for companies like AOL, Google and Yahoo to compile such data. A1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: The vote in Connecticut; lessons from Prudhoe Bay; the measles vaccine follies; Verlyn Klinkenborg on package tracking.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword: E8
TV Listings: E9
Weather: D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); ARMIES (76%); TERRORISM (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); ROBBERY (73%); BANK ROBBERY (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); RACE & RACISM (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); MEDICARE (66%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (65%); CONTRACEPTION (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%); TRAINS (51%); RELIGION (51%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (91%)

PERSON: SAMUEL W BODMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%) ALASKA, USA (93%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (94%); INDIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



173 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: A 'Good Fellow' at Play in the Fields of New York Crime

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:

A Pickpocket's Tale
The Underworld of Nineteenth-Century New York
By Timothy J. Gilfoyle
Illustrated. 460 pages. W. W. Norton & Company. $27.95.
 Sometime in the early years of the 20th century, a worn-out career criminal named George Appo took up a pen and set down the story of his life. In semiliterate English -- he learned to read and write late in life, while serving time in prison -- he described a miserable childhood on the streets of New York; a long career as a pickpocket and confidence man; years spent addicted to opium; and innumerable encounters with the criminal justice system, such as it was in 19th-century New York.
Timothy J. Gilfoyle, a historian at Loyola University in Chicago, came across Mr. Appo's memoir in the records of the Society for the Prevention of Crime in New York, a private civic organization that employed Mr. Appo as an undercover investigator, and jumped at what must have seemed a golden opportunity. Mr. Appo's testimony, in its crude immediacy, is a rich source of information on criminal New York in the 19th century, a rude bridge between the worlds of Herbert Asbury's ''Gangs of New York'' and Caleb Carr's novel ''The Alienist.'' 
 Mr. Gilfoyle, who explored the sexual economy of New York from 1790 to 1920 in ''City of Eros,'' never quite manages to capitalize on his find. ''A Pickpocket's Tale'' promises to be a richly reimagined otherworld, plunging the reader into the New York of the Five Points slum and the hopelessly corrupt political system that made the city a wide-open playing field for criminals of every cast. Instead, it is essentially a series of detailed, rather dry footnotes to Mr. Appo's autobiography, which is served up in lengthy excerpts and provides the book's only narrative drive. 
 Mr. Gilfoyle has done a prodigious job of research, providing a wealth of material on opium dens, the varied forms of punishment at prisons like Sing Sing and the fine points of the notorious swindle known as the green-goods game. Some of this bears directly on Mr. Appo's experiences and makes compelling reading, but a lot of it is digressive and distracting. There are fascinating bits of information to be gleaned from Mr. Gilfoyle's forays into penal theory, jurisprudence and the lives of various notorious New Yorkers, but the material often has more to do with his long hours in the library than with Mr. Appo's story, which is a good one. 
 Mr. Appo was the son of a Chinese father, Quimbo Appo, whose real name, as his son spelled it, was Lee Ah Bow. Quimbo Appo learned to speak English well, assimilated and married an Irishwoman, but his violent streak led him to murder his landlady after an argument. Little George, at 3, was taken in by a family living in Donovan's Lane, the poorest street in the Five Points in Lower Manhattan, New York's toughest, most crime-ridden neighborhood. He never went to school. Instead, he sold newspapers, learned how to pick pockets and embarked on a life of crime, heavy drinking and drug addiction.
 In his memoir, to be published next year by Rutgers University Press, edited by Mr. Gilfoyle, Mr. Appo comes across as intelligent and likable. He lived by a code that placed a premium on being a ''good fellow.'' A good fellow was brave -- a ''nervy crook,'' as Mr. Appo put it. He was loyal, dependable, generous when his pockets were full and never ratted, even when wronged by an enemy.
 ''Many times I have been assaulted by would be toughs and I have defended myself and never howled for the police for satisfaction in the courts, even while I got the worst of the fight,'' Mr. Appo wrote. 
 Mr. Appo spent more than a decade in prisons and jails. He was, as he wrote, assaulted many times. On one occasion, in midswindle, a victim pulled out a gun, held it to his right temple and fired. Mr. Appo lost an eye.
 At Sing Sing guards threw him over a table to administer a beating with a paddle, knocking out his front teeth. His face bore countless scars from broken bottles and knives. Time and again, he would wake up in the hospital, head swathed in bandages, and simply ask for his coat and head out the door, ready to pick pockets, put over the con known as the flimflam or indulge in his most lucrative scheme, luring marks into the green-goods game.
 Mr. Gilfoyle does an admirable job of describing the life of the pickpocket. He explains, for example, that a shift in men's fashions after 1860 to shorter frock coats, which exposed the front pants pockets, proved a boon to pickpockets. Even better was the sack coat, which had multiple outside pockets. On one foray Mr. Appo cruised the midway of a county fair and emerged with $600 in cash and 22 watches. 
 Though Mr. Gilfoyle never explains the details of the flimflam, he explores the intricacies of the green-goods game. 
 This was essentially the ancestor of the Nigerian e-mail appeal. Victims, responding to a mailed circular, and believing that they were buying high-quality counterfeit bills, were shown actual currency and asked to pay, typically, $100 for $1,000. The currency was genuine, but in midtransaction a bag filled with blank paper or sawdust was substituted for the bag with the cash. 
 Mr. Appo did some of his finest work as a middleman for a green-goods kingpin. His downfall came when he was hauled before a committee of the State Senate investigating police corruption. He told investigators little that they did not know already, but criminals and police alike, made nervous by exaggerated newspaper stories, assumed he had spilled the beans on their activities and turned on him. His criminal career was effectively over, although he did play one onstage, a green-goods swindler in a mid-1890's production, ''In the Tenderloin.'' 
 Mr. Appo reformed. The world of honest work, a shimmering mirage for most of his days, had always been closed to him, but late in life he became a combination employee and charity case for the Society for the Prevention of Crime before dying, at 73, in 1930. Mr. Appo never expressed bitterness about what his life might have been. He took his hard knocks without complaining. He was a good fellow right to the end.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, George Appo, a ''nervy crook''
above, Timothy J. Gilfoyle. (Photo by Dorothy Gilfoyle)
 (Photo by Louis Beck, ''New York's Chinatown'' [New York, 1898])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); HISTORY (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); LITERATURE (76%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); CRIME PREVENTION (72%); OPIUM (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: William Grimes; Timothy J Gilfoyle

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



174 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Branches, Branches; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: Everywhere You Look, There's a Bank

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
At the intersection of 32nd Street and Park Avenue in Manhattan, a Citibank branch sits on the northeast corner. A Commerce Bancorp branch is across the street. A North Fork bank stands over the southwest side. And taking up the fourth corner spot: a new branch for J. P. Morgan Chase, which is not more than a short sprint from an HSBC banking center up the block. 
 Too many bank branches? Maybe.
Big banks have been on a branch building binge in the last few years, trying to grab and hold onto customers. But this recent push may be nearing its final frontier. 
 Deposit growth is expected to slow, and some data suggests that banks are stealing customers from each other rather than enlarging the overall size of the market. Higher interest rates and new Internet-only savings accounts have led some consumers to move their money into products offering higher yields. And prices for bank real estate have been soaring nationwide, especially in New York. 
 ''I just think the building frenzy in branch banking is probably nearing its peak,'' said Vernon W. Hill, Commerce Bank's chairman and chief executive, who is credited with igniting the branch building boom in Manhattan, starting in 2001. ''Maybe I am dreaming, but I think we are going to look back at this period and say this is the top.''
 Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chairman and chief executive, said, ''We think there is some saturation, but that is typical for banking where there is a herd instinct.'' But even though it may seem as if there is a branch on every corner, industry executives argue that most major American cities are still open to more banking. In metropolitan areas like New York, Los Angeles, Miami and Washington, the amount of money that retail banks are taking in is significantly outpacing the number of new branches being built. 
 The rush into retail banking reflects a fundamental shift by the industry. A decade ago, most big banks were shedding their branches, not building more. They steered their customers away from teller lines and encouraged them to use cash machines and telephone banking services, which were less expensive to operate. And many had grand visions of Internet banking, even if consumer-friendly technology had not yet arrived. 
 Today, there has been a serious change of mind. Banks view their branches as gold mines, not costs. Their checking accounts can generate a steady stream of fee income. Their tellers can sign customers up for new products, spurring overall sales. All the while, branches can collect millions in cheap deposits that can be lent out at higher rates. Even as they offer options like online banking and kiosks in convenience stores, banks still hope to lure customers inside a physical branch.
 The upshot is that big banks are treating their branches more like traditional retail outlets than ever before. Bank of America's New York regional manager is a former Barnes & Noble executive who talks about his ''distribution network.'' Commerce promotes its evening and weekend hours; Wells Fargo executives refer to their branches as stores. And across the industry, there is greater focus on branding, customer service and placing more products -- from home equity to retirement savings accounts -- into existing customers' hands. 
 Branch banking, after all, is big business. Last year, United States banks earned $40 billion to $45 billion from deposit-gathering activities, according to Mercer Oliver Wyman, a financial services consulting firm. That is roughly the same amount they earned from credit card lending and mortgages combined.
 It is no surprise that branches have been behind a series of recent banking deals. This spring, Capital One snapped up North Fork bank in a $14.6 billion deal for its 355-branch network. J. P. Morgan swapped its corporate trust business for Bank of New York's 338 outlets. Wachovia plans to take advantage of Golden West's 285 branches when its acquisition is complete. 
 And in what may be one of the industry's telltale signs, Bank of America's success riding the retail wave has made it poised to overtake Citigroup as the biggest bank in the country. Its coast-to-coast network of 5,700 branches towers over the 894 Citibank locations nationwide. 
 The New York metropolitan area, the country's wealthiest market, has in many ways been emblematic of the national resurgence in retail banking. Five years ago, a bank branch in New York City was an endangered species; many were closing or moving from corner storefronts to cheaper locations on second floors. Today, it is hard to miss one if you stroll down any street. 
 The figures tell the story of a rapid buildup of branches that may be difficult to sustain in New York. From 2002 to 2005, retail deposits grew an estimated 6.7 percent, to $470 billion in the New York metropolitan region, according to the findings of a Mercer Oliver Wyman study. The number of retail branches, meanwhile, increased at a 2.8 percent annualized rate, to 5,445. That implies that the average New York-area branch increased its deposits each year by about 3.72 percent, barely outpacing the area's average annual rate of inflation, 3.3 percent. 
 Nationally, from 2000 to 2005, total retail deposits have risen at a 6.2 percent annualized rate, to $4.6 trillion, while the total number of retail branches has grown 1.3 percent a year, to more than 86,000. Deposits per branch grew about 4.8 percent a year, well above the national average annual inflation rate. And in some markets like Los Angeles, Miami, and Washington -- which have both fast-rising income and population rates -- those figures are even higher. 
 The data suggests that instead of attracting the dollars of new customers, the big banks are hoping to take money away from one another -- a pattern consistent with the cluster of branches at some corner locations and high-traffic spots. ''It seems like we are over-branched, but in Manhattan you have a bunch of relatively affluent people stacked on top of each other into the sky,'' said Michael Poulos, the head of Mercer's retail banking practice. 
 There are, however, at least a few signs that the New York market may be close to reaching a peak. Commercial brokers say that banks are now lining up to secure prime corner locations, leading to frenzied bidding that has at times nearly doubled neighborhood rents. In the boroughs outside Manhattan, one developer has bought out several delis, a dry cleaner and a hardware store to find space for major banks. 
 That, banking analysts say, could point to a slowdown soon. In Chicago, it has already happened. Long a fragmented and underserved market, the banks viewed Chicago as ripe with opportunity a few years ago and set off a branch building boom. Bank of America, Citigroup, Fifth Third, National City, Washington Mutual -- not to mention J. P. Morgan Chase with the acquisition of Bank One -- all piled in. That increased the total number of new branches for the past few years about 6.6 percent annually but caused the average deposit at each branch to shrink. And with the same banks fighting for the same corners, the same bank managers and the same customers, it resulted in a talent and pricing war.
 Of course, New York may not be Chicago yet. The banks say they are committed to their branch strategy -- at least for now. J. P. Morgan Chase, whose nearly 800 New York branches make it the biggest in the three-state region, said that portions of the area still had room for growth. Still, it will close about 50 overlapping branches soon when it completes the Bank of New York acquisition. 
 ''Everyone walks up the main avenues of Manhattan and draws the conclusion that we are underbanked,'' said Charles W. Scharf, J. P. Morgan's head of retail banking. But New York City is more than just Manhattan, he said, adding that ''you really have to look'' location by location, neighborhood by neighborhood, sometimes even bank by bank. 
 Wachovia, which has opened about 12 offices in a small section of Midtown, now has mainly shifted its sights for their next dozen locations to commuter suburbs in New Jersey and Long Island. Executives attribute the move to high real estate costs but analysts say it also underscores a failure to lure Manhattan customers. 
 ''You are in the business for the full cycle,'' countered Ben Jenkins, the head of Wachovia's General Bank unit, denying that it was pulling back from New York City. ''We will grow faster in some than others.'' 
 Bank of America, which has 374 New York-area branches, said it was mainly concentrating on remodeling its existing ones. But executives there said that parts of lower and upper Manhattan -- and most of Brooklyn -- still do not have enough banks, a pattern supported by high levels of A.T.M. use in those areas by their customers. It said it planned to add 25 more by 2008.
 And Citigroup is moving forward with plans to add more than two dozen new branches to the 245 that it operates in the three-state area.
 ''We are behind and understrengthed in our home market,'' said Ray Quinlan, the head of Citigroup's North American retail operations, as he noted plans to build a total of 100 domestic Citibank branches by the end of this year. 
 Kevin P. Fitzsimmons, a banking analyst with Sandler O'Neill, thinks the retail banking revival may soon end. 
 ''The boom in branch banking is over,'' he said. 
 ''You will probably see a radical scaling back of new branch plans for most banks. We are already starting to see that already.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about a boom in the building of bank branches rendered a word incorrectly in a quotation from Charles W. Scharf, J. P. Morgan's head of retail banking. He said, ''Everyone walks up the main avenues of Manhattan and draws the conclusion that we are overbanked,'' not ''underbanked.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: You don't have to look far to find a bank at 32nd Street and Park Avenue in Manhattan. Each of the four corners has a bank branch. (Photographs by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)Chart: ''Fewer Branches Than Cash''Deposits have grown 6.2% annually while the number of new branches is up 1.3%.Graphs track total retail deposits (measured in trillions) and total retail branches (measured in thousands) from 2000 to 2005.(Source by Mercer Oliver Wyman)(pg. C1)Chart: ''A Bank on Every Corner''Despite their ubiquitous presence, banks are taking in money at a faster pace than new branches are being built.Growth of retail banks in metropolitan areasGraph tracks the growth of number of branches and growth of deposits from 2002-5 (annualized) for the following cities:New York CityPhiladelphiaSan FranciscoBostonDetroitMiamiLos AngelesWashingtonAtlantaDallasChicago(Source by Mercer Oliver Wyman)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK BRANCHES (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); RETAIL BANKING (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); RETAILERS (88%); CITY LIFE (86%); CITIES (86%); INTERNET BANKING (77%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); MARKET SIZE (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); HERD BEHAVIOR (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CONVENIENCE STORES (62%) 

COMPANY: TD BANK NA (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan, J P, Chase & Co; Citicorp; Commerce Bank; North Fork Bancorp Inc

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); COF (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (50%) Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



175 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: The Heroes Of Housing Just Say No

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THERE'S an old ''Saturday Night Live'' skit in which Eddie Murphy sets out to experience life as a white man in New York. He starts in a dressing room, where makeup artists lighten his skin as he studies up by reading Hallmark cards. Duly prepared, he wades into Midtown Manhattan calling himself Mr. White.
 His first stop is a newsstand, where the white cashier conspiratorially tells him to take a newspaper without paying for it. Then comes a ride on a public bus that morphs into a lounge with cocktails and music after the last black rider gets off.
 Finally, Mr. White enters the Equity National Bank to ask about borrowing $50,000 even though he has no identification, no collateral and no credit history. But no matter. Such things are mere ''formalities,'' a loan officer says, while removing stacks of cash from a metal box. ''Just take what you want, Mr. White. Pay us back anytime. Or don't. We don't care.'' 
 Back in 1984, when the skit was shown on NBC, nobody would have imagined that it was poking fun not just at race, but also at banks' lending standards. At the time, not even a white man in a gray suit could have gotten a loan without any documents and paid it back at his leisure. 
 But if you watch the skit today on YouTube or a DVD, you can't help but see another, unintended layer of satire. In the last few years, so-called no-doc and low-doc mortgages -- in which loan applicants can avoid formalities like pay stubs and instead simply state their income -- have surged in popularity. Critics call them ''liars' mortgages.''
 And banks, which often sell a mortgage to a group of investors shortly after issuing it, sometimes seem downright relaxed about how quickly borrowers will repay a loan. The hottest mortgage for the last year has been something called an ''option ARM'' that comes with a choice of payments on each monthly bill. In California, more than 25 percent of new mortgages this year have been option ARM's, up from about 5 percent in 2004, according to LoanPerformance, a mortgage data firm. 
 The main point of these innovations has been to sustain the housing boom by allowing a family that can't really afford a house to buy it anyway. But clearly, this can't last. Already, it has raised the risk of a sharp housing downturn and, eventually, of a recession. The Federal Reserve acknowledged as much yesterday by halting its campaign of interest rate increases.
 So the housing industry is going to have to find a new business plan. Fortunately, there is one small sliver of the market -- here in New York, as a matter of fact -- that has kept its wits and can serve as a model. The trouble is that it's not usually considered to be a model for anything. Indeed, it may be the most hated institution in New York. 
 Let us now praise the co-op board.
 COOPERATIVE living got its start in the 1880's, inspired by Charles Fourier, a French socialist who argued that cooperation bred efficiency. A French immigrant to New York named Philip Hubert picked up on the idea and built arguably the first co-op, the Hubert Home Club, near the current site of Carnegie Hall.
 Despite their utopian origins, co-ops quickly turned into a celebration of capitalism and exclusivity. Soaring new Hubert Home Clubs opened on Madison Avenue and next to Central Park, offering the sort of living space that has always made New Yorkers envious, according to the writer Elizabeth Hawes. 
 Today, co-ops -- which sell shares in a corporation that owns the building, rather than individual apartments -- make up about three-quarters of the city's apartments. As always, the boards have the right to reject any buyer who doesn't quite fit, however they define ''fit.'' More than a few co-op boards would have made good fodder for the Mr. White skit.
 Anyone who has ever been interviewed by a board knows what a humiliating process it can be. Its members can demand bank statements from you, ask about intimate details of your life and then reject you without saying why. Or the board can admit you and make life miserable once you have moved in. In the 1990's, one co-op resident on the Upper West Side was moved to have a party after the board president died. 
 But say this for most co-op boards: they take their fiduciary duties seriously. They generally require at least a 25 percent down payment, and while the rest of the real estate business has been getting more permissive, co-op boards have been using the sellers' market of the last few years to crack down. Some Park Avenue co-ops require buyers to have a net worth equal to four times an apartment's price, up from the old standard of three, said Jonathan Miller, an appraiser. 
 So thanks in large part to co-ops, the shadiest parts of the housing boom are less common in New York. Less than 8 percent of mortgages issued in the metropolitan area this year have been option ARM's. The share is closer to 30 percent in most other cities as expensive as New York.
 It's hard not to conclude that New York's high prices are based more on economic fundamentals than those in California or South Florida. (And no, I don't own property in New York, though I have relatives who do.) The city surely won't be immune to a downturn, but it does seem less likely to crash. In the last year, price increases here have slowed far less than those in San Francisco, San Diego, Boston, Connecticut or Long Island.
 Most real estate experts still consider a crash -- say, a 20 percent decline -- to be unlikely, even in California. But there is now a legitimate risk that the excesses of the housing boom have laid the groundwork for an economic downturn. At the very least, some families are going to regret having taken out such aggressive loans when the higher payments eventually come due. 
 In coming months, federal regulators plan to issue new guidelines that will remind banks of the risks inherent in their new products and will encourage them to disclose the risks to borrowers. But the guidelines are pretty mild, and they're not exactly ahead of the curve. 
 The real lesson of co-op boards, then, will have to fall to those of us doing the borrowing. When you're about to take on hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt, you will probably do well to be conservative, to ask whether you can make the payments even if something goes wrong, rather than only if housing prices keep rising, interest rates start to fall and you get a big raise. Consider it a mantra for a newly sane real estate market: Embrace your inner co-op board.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The David Leonhardt column in Business Day on Wednesday, about restrictions imposed by co-op boards that have helped limit the use of some adjustable rate mortgages in New York, referred imprecisely to the breakdown of the city's housing stock. Co-ops make up about three-quarters of owner-occupied apartments, not of all apartments, including rentals, in New York.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Taking On Risk''New York has a smaller share of a risky type of mortgage, option ARM's, compared with other expensive cities.Areas with the most-expensive homesMedian sales price of existing single-family homes, in thousands, 1st qtr. '06, change from 1st qtr. '051. San Francisco: $797 (+ 6%)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 37%2. San Jose, Calif.: 760 (+ 4)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 413. Santa Ana, Calif.: 723 (+ 8)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 354. Santa Rosa, Calif.: 708 (+ 19)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 405. Santa Cruz, Calif.: 703 (+ 15)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 336. Oakland, Calif.: 674 (+ 4)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 397. Honolulu: 635 (+ 18)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 118. Salinas, Calif.: 623 (+ 14)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 529. Santa Barbara, Calif.: 622 (+ 9)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 3610. San Diego: 616 (+ 4)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 4011. Napa, Calif.: 553 (+ 25)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 4212. New York: 548 (+ 16)Option ARM's*Share of mortgages issued this year through April: 8* Option ARM's are a form of adjustable-rate mortgages, and are also known as negative-amortization mortgages. Data does not include Fannie Mac and Freddie Mac conventional loans, and percentages for the overall market are likely to be slightly lower than these.(Sources by Economy.com
 LoanPerformance)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); FILM (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CITIES (74%); REAL ESTATE (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); RECESSION (64%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%); HOME PRICES (63%); BUSINESS PLANS (60%) 

COMPANY: HALLMARK CARDS INC (58%); EQUITY NATIONAL BANK (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: EDDIE MURPHY (73%) David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SALINAS, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



176 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Agency Is Dropped From Review

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere

 BODY:
Wal-Mart Stores has dismissed one of its two longtime creative agencies, Bernstein-Rein in Kansas City, Mo., by eliminating it from an account review that began in May. Wal-Mart spends more than $570 million a year on advertising. 
 Bernstein-Rein, which has worked for Wal-Mart since 1974, has created campaigns that featured the familiar smiley-face character as well as others focused on Wal-Mart's low prices. The agency was hired by Wal-Mart's founder, Sam Walton.
''We're very proud of our long partnership and what it has accomplished,'' Robert Bernstein, president and chief executive at the agency, said yesterday, describing it as ''something unprecedented in business history: helping a small, regional chain become the world's largest retailer.''
 Five other agencies are proceeding in the review, including the other creative incumbent, GSD&M in Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group, which has worked for Wal-Mart since 1987. The other four are Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in New York, owned by the WPP Group; Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe; and two agencies that are part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, the Draft FCB Group in Chicago and the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va.
 Bernstein-Rein, which said it would continue working for Wal-Mart through Jan. 31, was among five agencies eliminated from the review. 
 The others were JWT in New York, part of WPP; Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners in New York, part of MDC Partners; and two agencies owned by Publicis, Leo Burnett in Chicago and Publicis Worldwide in New York.
 A final decision in the review from Wal-Mart executives -- who are looking to shake up their advertising approaches in the face of intensified competition from retailers like Target -- is expected next month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); WPP PLC (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); BERNSTEIN-REIN (90%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (85%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (55%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (54%); MDC PARTNERS INC (54%); JWT (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Bernstein-Rein Advertising

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (91%); WPP (LSE) (91%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (85%); MDZ.A (TSX) (54%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: Jane L Levere

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (88%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (70%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (70%); VIRGINIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



177 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Tax Shelters Under Scrutiny At Seattle Hedge Fund Firm

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
A Seattle hedge fund firm has come under scrutiny as a result of its work with questionable tax shelters.
 Last week, for the second time in three years, a Senate subcommittee described the firm, the Quellos Group, as a maker and seller of abusive tax shelters, focusing on a high-end shelter that helped five wealthy clients shield $2 billion in taxes.
The firm has rejected such characterizations, saying that its tax shelter work, which began in the mid-1990's and ended in 2001, was not only legitimate, but also small and separate from its main business. 
 But it was the tax shelter work that helped Quellos become one of the largest sellers of funds-of-funds, or funds that invest in hedge funds, former senior employees say. Quellos now manages more than $15 billion in assets for clients like the Hong Kong Jockey Club and the University of British Columbia. 
 The firm's work on questionable shelters is drawing increasing attention from federal prosecutors, highlighting how the late 1990's boom in aggressive shelters continues to haunt investment firms, banks and accounting and law firms that played a part in their creation and sale. Senate investigators have estimated that abusive tax shelters cost the Treasury more than $100 billion in unpaid taxes in recent years.
 Earlier this year, senior Quellos executives and Quellos-affiliated firms received subpoenas from a federal grand jury in Manhattan, which has been investigating the roles played in abusive tax shelters by individuals and companies including Deutsche Bank, Ernst & Young and former employees of the accounting firm KPMG, 16 of whom are under criminal indictment stemming from their tax shelter work. Quellos and its current and former employees are not targets in the investigation, according to people close to the inquiry. 
 The Internal Revenue Service, meanwhile, has been conducting a tax shelter promoter audit of the firm, which can in theory lead to civil penalties or a criminal referral to the Justice Department for further investigation. Quellos has told investors that it is cooperating with federal prosecutors and the I.R.S. 
 Michael Gross, a spokesman for Quellos, said that ''long ago we ceased involvement in the area of tax-advantaged strategies, which was never our core business, and we are deeply disturbed by the recent unfair and inaccurate portrayal of our firm and its activities.''
 Quellos was founded in 1994 as Quadra Capital Management by Jeffrey I. Greenstein, then a little-known money manager. For two years starting in mid-1997, Quadra Capital ran its New York operations out of the Midtown Manhattan foundation office of James D. Wolfensohn, the investment banker who was then serving as president of the World Bank. Mr. Wolfensohn was Quadra's first New York client, brought in by Larry B. Scheinfeld, a former KPMG partner who later became a Quadra executive. Other early hedge fund clients included Robert Wood Johnson IV, the owner of the New York Jets and scion of the Johnson baby shampoo fortune, and several West Coast dot-com executives.
 In the late 1990's, some clients -- although never Mr. Wolfensohn, according to one of his spokesmen -- were seeking not just to get into hedge funds, but also to shelter their wealth from taxes.
 ''A lot of these prospective investors would say when you call, 'I can do business with any of the hedge funds, so what are you going to do for me?' '' said one former Quadra employee who worked there from the late 1990's through recent years. ''People start asking you for favors, and as a result of the favors, they choose to put money into your hedge fund.'' He spoke on condition of anonymity, saying that he did not want to become part of the investigation.
 Quadra, which changed its name to Quellos in 2000, was a high-end provider of aggressive shelters thanks to the alliances it had with accounting firms, law firms and banks, many caught up in the widening investigation. Its accounting firm was KPMG, and Jeffrey Eischeid, one of the former KPMG employees now under indictment, was its auditor.
 Quadra's largest tax shelter client, according to a person close to the firm, was Haim Saban, producer of the ''Mighty Morphin Power Rangers'' television show. In 1999, Mr. Saban paid Quellos and lawyers $54 million in fees to shelter $300 million in taxes owed from his sale of his $1.5 billion interest in the Family Channel and other assets, according to the Senate subcommittee. Mr. Saban, through an affiliate, had also invested in some of its funds. 
 By 1999, according to two former employees, tax shelters accounted for about 40 percent to 50 percent of Quadra's annual earnings, and reached at least into the high tens of millions of dollars. 
 With shelters as the lure, investors poured into Quadra's hedge funds, swelling its assets under management from $100 million in 1995 to $2.3 billion just five years later. Buoyed by strong returns, the firm expanded into investment banking, private equity, brokerage services and venture capital, according to a former senior Quadra employee.
 Last week's findings by the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations focused on just one Quellos tax shelter, called Point, which was sold to investors like Mr. Johnson and the wealthy Wyly brothers of Texas. The findings were the second by the subcommittee to point a finger at Quellos. The first, in 2003, used internal documents to show that Quellos and its predecessor, Quadra, had formal arrangements with KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers, among others, to make and sell two abusive shelters known as Flip and Opis. 
 In both hearings, Mr. Greenstein, now 44, said that his firm did nothing wrong. He called last week's report ''unfair, inaccurate and one-sided.''
 Jeffrey H. Brotman, the chairman and founder of Costco, which has been a Quellos client for six years, said that he was aware of Quellos's involvement in aggressive shelters, but he defended the firm. ''I know the principals well, to be honest, straightforward people, and their performance has been stellar,'' Mr. Brotman said. ''They're not like they were portrayed during the hearings.''
 The focus on Quellos also shows how close the ties were among the accounting firms, law firms, banks and investment firms caught up in the tax shelter investigation.
 Those ties are seen in internal documents that have emerged in civil lawsuits. One such memo was written in July 1997 by Robert Pfaff, then a KPMG employee in Denver, to two KPMG executives, John Lanning and Jeffrey Stein. (All three men are now under indictment.)
 ''My initial reaction would be to sever the Quadra relationship, in light of their open and notorious relationship'' with a rival, Coopers & Lybrand, Mr. Pfaff wrote. He continued, ''on reflection, this would probably be ill-advised because we need to live with Quadra, particularly on I.R.S. exams and on completed transactions.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about the tax shelter work that was done by the hedge fund firm Quellos Group misidentified the shelter bought by the Wyly brothers of Texas. While the Wyly brothers bought an offshore tax shelter, it was not the Quellos shelter called Point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); INDICTMENTS (72%); GRAND JURY (72%); SUBPOENAS (72%); ETHICS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Taxation; Ethics; Tax Evasion ; Tax Shelters; Hedge Funds

COMPANY: KPMG (93%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Quellos Group

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (93%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Lynnley Browning

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



178 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: In a Policy Shift, the Fed Halts A 2-Year String of Rate Increases 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 8 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve on Tuesday suspended its two-year campaign of raising interest rates, a long-awaited policy shift based on the hope that a modest economic slowdown will subdue inflation without much pain.
 After 17 consecutive increases at each meeting since June 2004, the central bank voted to hold its benchmark interest rate steady at 5.25 percent. Policy makers suggested that they wanted more time to see where the economy was headed before deciding whether further increases might be necessary.
 In a statement accompanying its decision, the Fed acknowledged that inflation had accelerated. But it predicted that slowing economic growth -- led by the retreat of the housing market -- would lead to smaller consumer price increases before long.
 ''Readings on core inflation have been elevated in recent months,'' the Fed's policy-making committee said. ''However, inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time, reflecting contained inflation expectations and the cumulative effects of monetary policy actions and other factors restraining aggregate demand.'' 
 The central bank left itself ample room to resume its rate increases if inflation proves more stubborn than expected. But it implied that its hope was to avoid any more increases for the foreseeable future.
 The shift amounts to a bet by the Federal Reserve's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, on an elusive goal in monetary policy: a ''soft landing'' in which the economy slows enough to cool spending and ease inflationary pressures but not enough to cause a big jump in unemployment.
 The move comes at a risky moment. Inflation, while still modest, has been stoked by surging oil prices that are now being accompanied by rising costs for materials and labor.
 At the same time, economic growth has slowed sharply, unemployment is creeping up and productivity growth -- the primary determinant of overall prosperity and the crucial ingredient in having healthy growth without rising prices -- has stalled. 
 In a sign of uncertainty among policy makers, the Fed committee was not unanimous in its decision on interest rates, a relatively rare occurrence in a body that strives for consensus. Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, who has often sounded alarms about inflation, argued for raising rates an additional one-quarter percentage point. It was the first such dissent since Mr. Bernanke took over the Fed chairmanship from Alan Greenspan in February. 
 Many economists said they disagreed with the Fed's sanguine outlook, saying that prices and wages were both climbing significantly faster than just a year ago and showed no signs of slowing yet.
 ''There hasn't been even a whisper of inflation pressures easing,'' Ethan Harris, chief economist at Lehman Brothers, said. ''It's amazing that the Fed can sound that comfortable on a day that you've had another piece of bad news on the inflation front. If I were on the Fed, I would have voted for another rate increase.''
 A few hours before the Fed announced its decision, the Commerce Department reported that workers' compensation -- the biggest component in production costs -- climbed at an annual rate of 5.4 percent in the second quarter of 2006. Unit labor costs, which are the cost of labor necessary to produce a given amount of output, were 3.2 percent higher in the second quarter than during the period 12 months earlier. That was the biggest jump in almost five years. 
 The dilemma for policy makers is that if the Fed is forced into a serious crackdown on inflation, it risks throwing the economy into a recession. That would leave workers whose wages have barely kept up with price increases in worse shape, just as many are beginning to reap some modest gains from economic growth. And with energy prices up sharply, many workers, whose pay increases have lagged far behind productivity gains, have less disposable income for other purposes.
 The central bank stopped short of saying that additional ''firming'' -- Fed jargon for higher interest rates -- would be necessary. Instead, it repeated previous statements that ''the extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth.''
 Among economists, one camp interpreted the statement to mean the Fed was essentially finished with this round of interest rate increases. And in contrast to those more worried about inflation, they argued that the Fed was right to leave interest rates alone. 
 ''It's the end of the game,'' wrote Bernard Baumohl, executive director of the Economic Outlook Group in Princeton Junction, N.J., in a research note to clients. 
 He argued that the Fed's previous 17 rate increases had already set the stage for lower inflation and that further rate increases risked tilting an economy that was already hitting the brakes into a full-blown recession.
 ''By keeping their hands off the monetary throttle at this time,'' Mr. Baumohl wrote, ''the Federal Reserve has increased the probability the economy is on approach toward a soft landing.''
 The nation's overall economic growth slowed to an annual pace of just 2.5 percent in the second quarter of this year, less than half the torrid pace of the first quarter. Job creation has been low for the last four months, and the unemployment rate edged up to 4.8 percent in July from 4.6 percent in June.
 But other experts are skeptical, saying the Fed may be forced by inflation data to begin raising rates again soon. In practice, the Fed has effectively engineered only one other ''soft landing'' in history -- in 1994 and 1995, under Mr. Greenspan.
 Conditions then were in many ways more benign than they are today, however. Inflation was heading down, not up; the federal budget was moving toward lower rather than higher deficits; energy prices were erratic, but far lower than they are today.
 ''The current situation looks a lot more like the 1970's than the 1990's,'' said Allen Sinai, chief economist at Decision Economics. ''We are seeing the leading edge, though not necessarily the ultimate outcome, of what in the old days used to be called the wage-price inflation spiral.''
 Mr. Bernanke, both before and after he became Fed chairman, has said that his definition of price stability is a ''core'' inflation rate -- excluding prices for energy and food -- of 1 to 2 percent. But by the Fed's preferred measure of core inflation prices are about 2.9 percent higher than one year ago. That is the biggest year-over-year jump in 11 years.
 ''Rather than taking pre-emptive measures against a very serious inflation threat, Bernanke and company have adopted a very dangerous reactionary approach,'' said Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research. ''They're in a wait-and-see mode.''
 Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor and now an economic forecaster at Macroeconomic Advisers, predicted that it would take more than a soft landing to reduce inflation significantly. For that to happen, he said, unemployment would have to rise for a sustained period.
 But Mr. Meyer speculated that Fed officials might not want to reduce inflation to Mr. Bernanke's unofficial targets. He noted that the Fed's latest economic outlook, based on forecasts from Fed district banks, called for core inflation to remain about 2 or 2.25 percent through 2007.
 Even that goal could require a painful economic adjustment. ''There's too much inflation in the system,'' said Mr. Harris of Lehman Brothers, who predicted that the Fed would be forced to raise rates again before the year is over. ''At this stage, there has to be a bumpy landing.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Credit Suisse employees at the New York Stock Exchange. (Photo by Richard Drew/Associated Press)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve Bank

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Edmund L Andrews; Ben S Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2006



179 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: A Supersize Marketplace For Many Pixel-Size Niches 

BYLINE: By LORNE MANLY

 BODY:

The Long Tail
Why the Future of Business Is Selling Less of More
By Chris Anderson
Illustrated. 238 pages. Hyperion. $24.95.
 In May 1985 two British mountain climbers set off to become the first people to climb the west face of the Siula Grande in the Peruvian Andes. But on the descent, one of the men, Joe Simpson, slipped down an ice cliff on the nearly 21,000-foot mountain, shattering his knee joint on impact; another mishap left him stranded in a crevasse, bereft of food, water and a partner.
Mr. Simpson's account of his crawl to safety appeared three years later as a book called ''Touching the Void.'' Well reviewed, it sold only modestly in the United States before suffering the fate of so many books: being pulled from the shelves and relegated into publishing limbo. There it remained for nearly a decade until, as Chris Anderson recounts in ''The Long Tail: Why the Future of Business is Selling Less of More,'' a new force called Amazon.com intervened. 
 As another book about a mountain-climbing disaster, ''Into Thin Air,'' by Jon Krakauer, scaled the best-seller lists, some readers wrote reviews noting the similarities of the two books and urging others to pick up ''Touching the Void.'' Once they did, Amazon's software took over, noting the buying patterns and suggesting the same thing. 
 As more customers took Amazon up on its recommendation, the cycle kept repeating and intensifying, leading to more sales. A docudrama of Mr. Simpson's ordeal was released in the United States in 2004 to appeal to this rekindled interest, HarperCollins printed a revised paperback, and ''Touching the Void'' moved on to the best-seller lists.
 More than an illustration of the benefits online booksellers and a movie tie-in can provide a book, the ''Touching the Void'' example demonstrates for Mr. Anderson how a new technology-fueled explosion of choice, guided by human and algorithm-driven filters, is upending the rules that have underpinned the entertainment industries for decades. 
 ''Unlimited selection is revealing truths about what consumers want and how they want to get it in service after service -- from DVD's at the rental-by-mail firm Netflix to songs in the iTunes Music Store and Rhapsody,'' he writes. ''People are going deep into the catalog, down the long, long list of available titles, far past what's available at Blockbuster Video and Tower Records. And the more they find, the more they like.'' For Mr. Anderson, the editor in chief of Wired, blockbusters will matter less in the 21st century as supply blooms. ''Increasingly, the mass market is turning into a mass of niches,'' he writes. And that, he says, is a good thing.
 Mr. Anderson's publishers at Hyperion are using their Disney-honed promotional prowess to market ''The Long Tail'' as ''the most important business book since Malcolm Gladwell's ''Tipping Point,' '' though it is not quite as felicitously written as that blend of science and sociology. At heart ''The Long Tail'' is a book about economics and carries the PowerPoint trappings of the genre, with its charts and graphs, lapses into business jargon and easily digested rules for success. And Mr. Anderson's thesis suffers at times from overextending itself; a chapter near the end, with sections about KitchenAid and Lego, feels like a perfunctory attempt to give a more general-interest veneer to a book about entertainment and the news media. 
 But like ''The Tipping Point,'' Mr. Anderson's book does an excellent job of spotting trends and fitting them into an easily accessible theoretical framework that helps explain the changing culture around us. 
 ''The Long Tail'' began life in 2004 as an article for Wired after Mr. Anderson found himself blowing a pop quiz in the offices of a digital jukebox company called Ecast. He had badly underestimated what percentage of the 10,000 albums available on the company's Internet-connected jukeboxes had a track chosen at least once each quarter. The Ecast chief executive said that the figure was 98 percent. The average Wal-Mart, by contrast, carries 4,500 different CD's and the top 20 albums account for 90 percent of its music revenue.
 Mr. Anderson had hit on something. Remove the limitations of bricks-and-mortar retailers -- like scarce shelf space, which leads companies to concentrate on the most popular products -- and the infrequent sellers or undistributed merchandise suddenly start to acquire more value. 
 Mr. Anderson cites figures from Rhapsody for December 2005, when the biggest hits were downloaded in droves, but even as the demand fell off for less popular songs, interest was never completely extinguished. In statistics the resulting demand curve is called a ''long-tailed distribution,'' because the curve's tail is much longer in relation to the head, which shows the performance of the best-selling products. Nomenclature notwithstanding, companies like Amazon and Netflix saw an opportunity. ''The onesies and twosies were still only selling in small numbers,'' Mr. Anderson writes, ''but there were so, so many of them that in aggregate they added up to a big business.'' 
 Mr. Anderson is not arguing that blockbusters are slumping toward extinction. ''Mass culture will not fall, it will simply get less mass,'' he writes. ''And niche culture will get less obscure.'' 
 This is not a new thought. The atomization of culture has been going on for years. The creation of hundreds of cable television networks has whittled away the dominance of the broadcast networks. Yet the average household watches more television than ever, keeping the profits in the coffers of the entertainment conglomerates. But as Mr. Andersen persuasively argues, continued advances in technology, and the Internet in particular, are beginning to supersize this phenomenon and frighten media moguls to an unprecedented degree. The rise of YouTube, MySpace and the like give a taste of the power amateurs are beginning to wield in the creation of content, out of the control of the current titans. 
 These upheavals also concern some cultural commentators, who fret that the cracking of the social glue will lead to to a society in which people gravitate only to sources that reinforce their existing biases.
 Mr. Anderson is not one of them. ''Although the decline of mainstream cultural institutions may result in some people turning to echo chambers of like-minded views,'' he writes, ''I suspect that over time the power of human curiosity combined with near-infinite access to information will tend to make most people more open-minded, not less.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chris Anderson (Photo by Wired Magazine)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CLIMBING (90%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (90%); BESTSELLERS (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); LITERATURE (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); BOOKSTORES (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); MUSIC STORES (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: BB LIQUIDATING INC (82%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%); NETFLIX INC (54%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (82%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (82%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

PERSON: Lorne Manly; Chris Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDES (92%) PERU (91%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



180 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: Please Don't Make Me Go On Vacation

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
SOMEWHERE on a faraway beach, a cellphone rings, a BlackBerry buzzes, a laptop beeps. 
 It is an electronic requiem for the American vacation.
''I never go on vacation,'' said Ellen Kapit, a real estate agent in Manhattan. ''And when I do, I have my computer, my Palm, my e-mail and my phone with me at all times.'' 
 Ms. Kapit's habits are typical of today's employees, who check for e-mail messages from work in between parasailing or floating in the hotel pool, consider a long weekend a major excursion and sacrifice vacation days by not taking them. 
 But even as the American vacation is dying, the anxiety surrounding it is surging, according to surveys of workers released in the last year. Employees are sweating over every aspect of their getaways, from whether taking time off dooms them to the want ads to whether the work they will face when they return will keep them from ever leaving their cubicles again. And if they finally do make their escape? 
 ''You picture this great fantasy trip and it's nothing like you ever imagined in your head,'' said Randi Friedman, 27, a publicist in Manhattan who likened this lofty expectation to the high hopes Bridezillas have for their weddings. 
 ''Nothing will ever be good because you have an expectation level that's so high,'' she said. ''And that's the problem.''
 Indeed, expectations of just how wondrous the ever-shrinking American vacation should be have been ratcheted up to levels usually reserved for New Year's Eve. 
 Perhaps vacation-enjoyment angst is inevitable, given all the agonizing about where to go, what to do, how long the vacation should be, and whether it is wise to even take a vacation in the first place. Beginning long before the plane ticket is booked, it occurs for myriad reasons. 
 ''There's a large increase in the number of people who worry that they will lose their job,'' said Ellen Galinsky, the president of the Families and Work Institute, a nonprofit center for research on the American work force. In 1977, 45 percent of people felt truly secure in their jobs while only 36 percent have felt that way in recent years, she said, citing the organization's surveys. 
 Ms. Kapit, who worked in advertising for 20 years before becoming a sales agent for Bellmarc Realty, said that when large companies were more loyal to their employees, the situation was different. ''Since any company doesn't care who they lay off and how long they've been there, everyone's walking on eggshells,'' she said. ''Which is why I left my big corporate job.'' Now she sets her own schedule and often works from her home near Hampton Bays on the East End of Long Island. 
 But plenty of employees worry about taking vacation for reasons that have little to do with job security. Some consider themselves to be indispensable. Many are competitive. ''There's the feeling that overwork is the red badge of courage,'' Ms. Galinsky said, adding that people often compete to see who works the latest and the longest. 
 Ambitious workers can even be reluctant to ask a colleague to help out while they are on vacation. ''They take it all on themselves,'' said Jennifer Sullivan, a spokeswoman for CareerBuilder.com, the job recruitment Web site. ''Those are the people that are probably working multiple hours on their vacation or not taking vacation at all.''
 But it is not cruel Dickensian bosses and heartless company policies that prevent employees from enjoying -- or worse, taking -- their vacations. 
 ''Mostly people work because they want to,'' Ms. Galinsky said. ''It's mostly something that we're doing to ourselves.''
 Ambition, fear of being fired, feeling indispensable and self-imposed getaway guilt all help to explain why workers do not use all of their vacation days and why many prefer to take respites that are shorter than two weeks, even if they have banked significantly more vacation time. 
 Erin Krause, a spokeswoman for the travel Web site Expedia.com, which publishes an annual Vacation Deprivation online survey, said, ''Americans are not using all of their vacation days and it seems to be getting worse.'' 
 ''We are not taking advantage of the time our employers are giving to us,'' she said.
 That is particularly surprising given that in the United States full-time employees have 3.9 holiday and vacation weeks off a year. But this is paltry when compared with European countries, including the United Kingdom (6.6 weeks), France (7) and Italy (7.9), according to the 2004 figures compiled by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
 A study released last year by the Families and Work Institute found that American workers have on average 16.6 paid vacation days but that more than one-third of employees (36 percent) did not plan to use their full vacation. (The data for the survey of 1,003 adults who were employed full or part time by someone else was collected by Harris Interactive over the telephone between Oct. 7 and Nov. 15, 2004. The survey had a margin of error of plus or minus 2 percent.) 
 The study also found that only 14 percent of Americans go away for two weeks or more at any one time. ''I don't think I'd take a two-week chunk unless I didn't have anything going on,'' Ms. Kapit said, ''and then I'd probably be worried I'd never have anything going on.''
 Even those at the top of the corporate ladder, who have a generous amount of vacation time, do not necessarily use it. 
 ''The reality is the more responsibilities you have, the less time you take off,'' wrote Anderson Cooper in Details magazine last year. ''You have too much to lose. I'm convinced a big reason I got my own show on CNN was the fact that I kept filling in for people who were on vacation. Now if I leave the anchor chair too long, I worry Eve Harrington will take my place.'' 
 But even once workers get over their angst about what length vacation to take, many grapple with separation anxiety -- how often to check in with the office. 
 About one in five people do some amount of work during vacation, according to the Families and Work Institute study. 
 Downsizing, labor market volatility and the country's shift from an industrial economy to one based on service and knowledge have helped create what Ms. Galinsky described as a ''rapid-fire'' way of working. People expect instantaneous responses to their e-mail messages at all hours, vacation or no vacation. The boundary between work and home life is now fluid, she said, adding that ''we plan life off the job the way we plan life on the job.''
 And that may not be a good thing. The Families and Work Institute study found that overworked employees are more likely to make mistakes, to be angry at their employers and at colleagues who do not work as hard. These employees are also more likely to have higher stress levels, experience symptoms of clinical depression, report poorer health and neglect themselves.
 Still, employees continue to work during their vacations to ensure they are not swamped upon their return. 
 ''It doesn't give you that chance to refresh and recharge,'' said Ms. Sullivan, who oversaw CareerBuilder.com's annual vacation study.
 Getting away does not in itself guarantee relaxation. Fifty percent of Americans need two days to unwind and 50 percent need more than two days, according to the Families and Work Institute study. 
 And then there is the matter of inflated expectations. Two years ago, Ms. Friedman, the Manhattan publicist, scheduled her first official vacation in four years. Soon she was suffering from a bad case of vacation expectation syndrome.
 Ms. Friedman, who loves her work and defines herself in large part by it, envisioned sunny skies and tropical temperatures in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. But when she arrived, the sky was overcast, nighttime temperatures were in the 60's and an entire day was rained out. Her vacation fantasy did not include donning sweaters and cowering beneath an umbrella. ''I was so miserable,'' she said.
 Ms. Sullivan said today's employees put a lot of pressure on themselves to have trip-of-a-lifetime vacations. 
 ''They have to pack in all these activities,'' she said, ''and everybody has to be happy and smiling and it has to be perfect weather.'' 
 As Ms. Friedman said, ''It's your one trip.''
 Ms. Friedman acknowledges that, like many work-obsessed people, she is her own worst vacation enemy. As soon as her plane landed in Mexico, she checked her BlackBerry and cellphone for work messages. Upon arriving at her hotel, the first thing she did was locate the business center. Then she spent much of the first two days of her vacation sulking in her room, wishing it were warmer and sunnier. 
 But she received a very different kind of hotel wake-up call when she turned on the television and saw that a tsunami had devastated Asia. Suddenly, her overblown vacation fantasy became insignificant. 
 ''That's when I put it into perspective,'' she said. 
 Ms. Friedman did not stop checking her BlackBerry and cellphone for the rest of her time in Cabo San Lucas. But she did enjoy herself, sweater and all. 
 ''Life is too short to not appreciate every moment of it,'' she said. ''I realize that's why I work so hard, to take these vacations.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: OFFICE WITH A VIEW -- Ellen Kapit at the job and on vacation on Long Island. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
 HOLD MY MAIL -- What getting away used to look like: At Ballston Beach in Truro, Mass., in 1977, that time before e-mail and cellphones. (Photo by Joel Meyerowitz/Courtesy of Edwynn Houk Gallery)(pg. G2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); TRAVEL TICKETS (62%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Travel and Vacations; Labor; Working Hours

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

PERSON: Stephanie Rosenbloom

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



181 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; There's Money In Thirst; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: Global Demand for Clean Water Attracts Companies Big and Small 

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Everyone knows there is a lot of money to be made in oil. But a fresh group of big businesses is discovering there may be even greater profit in a more prosaic liquid: water. 
 ''You've got exploding urban populations, increased pollution and a need to address those things in a meaningful way,'' said Ian Barbour, general manager of Dow Chemical's Water Solutions unit. ''Of course, we're investing significantly in the water business.''
 Most analysts expect the water market in the United States to be worth at least $150 billion by 2010. And it may happen even sooner than that. Arid cities like Los Angeles and Phoenix already grapple with sporadic water shortages. New York City's water -- once lauded for its purity -- is getting cloudy, and the American Society of Civil Engineers has given the pipes and other parts of the country's creaky water system a D minus.
 Globally, water problems are even more immediate. Many experts estimate that water-related equipment and services already make up a $400 billion global market. 
 ''Water is a growth driver for as long and far as the eye can see,'' said Deane M. Dray, who follows many water companies for Goldman Sachs.
 Lots of others agree. Last month GE Energy Financial Services announced its first investment in water: $18 million in a wastewater reclamation plant in Atlanta. Alex Urquhart, the unit's president, said he wanted to be holding $1 billion in water assets before long. General Electric's industrial executives have even higher aspirations. In the last few years, G.E. has bought four water companies: Betz Dearborn in 2001, then Osmonics, Ionics and, most recently, Zenon Environmental Systems, which makes ultrafiltration membranes. 
 ''Our water portfolio now runs the gamut of technologies that industrial customers, the Chinese government or the New York municipal water authority could need,'' said Jeff Garwood, president of GE Water and Process Technologies. Siemens, the German conglomerate whose units often compete with G.E., makes the same claim. It bought U.S. Filter, once a premier stand-alone water company, for nearly $1 billion in 2004, and has acquired six smaller companies since. 
 ''There isn't a water treatment platform that we don't now have the technology to address,'' said Roger Radke, president of Siemens Water Technologies, which accounted for about 1.9 billion euros of Siemen's 75.4 billion euros in revenue last year. 
 Chemical companies are taking an interest, too. Last month, Dow, which has made water-softening resins and membranes for treating water for 20 years, bought Zhejiang Omex Environmental Engineering, a Chinese company that adds three more technologies to Dow's portfolio. In late July, Dow held a news conference at the United Nations, announcing its sponsorship of the Blue Planet Run, an event scheduled for next June, to raise money to tackle global water shortages. 
 ''We've doubled our capacity for water-related products in every one of the last five years,'' Andrew N. Liveris, Dow's chief executive, said, adding that water-related revenue went from ''less than $100 million'' in 2001 to ''hundreds of millions'' today. 
 For now, the opportunities for would-be water industry players seem most ample outside the United States. The United Nations Population Fund projects that in 2025, if present rates of water consumption are maintained, 5 billion of the world's 7.9 billion people will live in areas where safe water is scarce. 
 Many already do. According to the World Bank, the Middle East, so awash in oil, has about 5 percent of the world's people but less than 1 percent of the world's renewable fresh water. Siemens recently joined forces with Mekerot, Israel's biggest water utility, to explore new technologies to reuse scarce water in Israel, and ultimately sell it to other parched nations. 
 Eugene P. Corrigan Jr., an entrepreneur in Charleston, S.C., has mapped out the logistics for sending empty oil tankers back to the Middle East with their ballast tanks full of excess water. He has yet to get a Middle Eastern country to adopt his idea -- ''I sense a real reluctance to be dependent on a source beyond their borders for a water supply,'' he said -- but he continues to try. 
 Rampant industrialization in the East is also attracting Western water players. ''Industrial complexes are igniting in China and Russia, and there is a huge need for companies to help them manage their water effectively,'' said William J. Roe, chief operating officer for the Nalco Company, a water treatment company in Naperville, Ill., that has stepped up sales efforts in emerging economies. 
 The United States, too, has the potential to become a big customer for water technologies. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, Americans use nearly 100 gallons of water per person per day. If that goes unchecked, 36 states will be enduring water shortages by 2013, the agency warned. 
 ''You are going to see a growth in membrane technologies, in monitoring systems, in many parts of the water technology industry as we put in place stronger and more protective drinking water standards,'' said Benjamin H. Grumbles, assistant administrator for water at the E.P.A.
 For now the water industry remains fragmented, with no company commanding more than 5 percent of sales. But it is consolidating rapidly, as big companies like Siemens, G.E., Danaher and ITT continue their buying sprees. In 1999, there were 60 companies in the Palisades Water Index, a list of water company stocks put out by WaterTech Capital, an investment bank in Plano, Tex. Today, the list is pared to 38, and Stephen J. Hoffmann, president of WaterTech, expects it will soon be fewer. 
 Paradoxically, as conglomerates snap up water companies, it has become harder for investors to capitalize on the water industry's growth. 
 ''This industry has an awful lot of potential, but Pentair and Nalco are pretty much the only pure plays left,'' said Timothy M. Ghriskey, chief investment officer at Solaris Asset Management, which owns shares of Pentair.
 But water-based funds are filling the breach. In December, PowerShares Capital Management introduced the PowerShares Water Resources Portfolio, an exchange-traded fund that invests in the companies included in the Palisades Water Index. In addition, three European mutual funds specialize in water-related companies and William S. Brennan Sr., portfolio manager for the Praetor Global Water Fund in Paris, said he was setting up a similar fund in the United States.
 ''Whenever you flush a toilet, take a shower, drink a glass of water, someone is making money,'' he said, noting that the water stocks he tracks went up 10.65 percent in 2005, compared with a rise of about 3 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 Still, picking the right water stock is not simple. For now, no treatment technology is a panacea. 
 The cost of reverse osmosis membranes, which lie at the heart of most desalination projects, has plummeted, but desalination still remains capital and energy intensive, and creates its own troublesome sludge. Moreover, many of the regions that are prime desalination markets-- the Middle East, for one -- are also political powder kegs. 
 ''You've got to understand the politics, the financing, a lot more than just making the widgets,'' said Arthur L. Goldstein, the retired chairman of Ionics, a desalting pioneer now owned by G.E. 
 Ultraviolet radiation, an increasingly popular means of disinfecting water, is rendered less effective by sediments and sludgy particles, often present in water that needs treatment. Systems to treat and reuse wastewater are generally the least costly and most efficient, but they have yet to overcome the gut-level aversion many people have to deriving water from sewage. 
 And water-short nations may be competitors as well as customers. China, for example, has shipped so much activated carbon, a water purification material derived from coal, to the United States that the Calgon Carbon Corporation has filed antidumping charges against it. 
 ''A Chinese entrepreneur doesn't face the environmental regulations we do, and they have been eroding the profitability of this industry since the mid 1990's,'' said John Stanik, chief executive of Calgon, which had $335 million in revenue last year, all from water treatment technologies.
 Still, most water companies say that the market is big enough so that small companies can readily avoid competing with better-heeled rivals. 
 For example, the Met-Pro Corporation, a Harleysville, Pa., company that gets most of its $85 million in revenue from air pollution equipment, formed Pristine Water Solutions this year to sell pumps and treatment chemicals to industrial customers and smaller municipalities. 
 ''We'll go to places that wouldn't represent enough money for the bigger players,'' said Raymond De Hont, chief executive of Met-Pro. 
 Pentair, once primarily a tools company, sold that business in 2004, the same year it bought the water treatment company Wicor, and now derives nearly 75 percent of its revenue from water-related sales.
 ''We let the big dogs focus on large construction projects, while we sell them the pumps and tubes and housings that they need,'' said Randall J. Hogan, chairman of Pentair. Mr. Hogan sees no reason to switch strategies. ''Ten years ago we were a $100 million pump company,'' he said. ''We're now doing $2.13 billion in water alone.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A United Nations study foresees 5 billion of the world's 7.9 billion people in 2025 facing a scarcity of clean water. (Photo by Nic Bothma/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C1)
 The water line in a Chinese village. Dow Chemical bought a Chinese company involved in water technology. (Photo by China Photos/Getty Images)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (88%); EURO (78%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); WATER RIGHTS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%) 

COMPANY: GE WATER & PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES (82%); SIEMENS WATER TECHNOLOGIES (64%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); GE ENERGY (54%); SIEMENS AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (56%) United Nations; General Electric Co; Siemens Ag; United States Filter Corp; Dow Chemical Co; Zhejiang Omex Environmental Engineering

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); DOW (SWX) (57%); DOW (NYSE) (57%); DOW (LSE) (57%); 4850 (TSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); SIN (SWX) (52%); SIE (LSE) (52%); SIE (FRA) (52%); SIE (BIT) (52%); SI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (82%); NAICS562998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (64%); SIC4959 SANITARY SERVICES, NEC (64%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: Alex Urquhart; Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) EAST CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (72%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (52%) China

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



182 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: China Says Trade Surplus Hit Record

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Thursday, Aug. 10 

 BODY:
China announced another record trade surplus on Thursday, even as tensions between China and many of its trading partners have cooled somewhat. Chinese exports exceeded imports by $14.61 billion in July, topping the previous record of $14.5 billion, set in June. 
 Exports grew at a slightly slower pace in July, a possible sign of cooling demand in the United States and other Western markets. But exports still rose faster than imports, and many specialists are predicting that the trade surplus could widen further if the Chinese government is successful in efforts to ratchet down economic growth to forestall inflation.
''If they're successful in slowing down the economy through all these measures they've announced, the risks are on the upside because imports would slow,'' Nicholas R. Lardy, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, said.
 The data released by China's customs administration was a snapshot of overall trade, and did not include a breakdown by country. But the United States has accounted for more of the surplus than any other country, and is expected to continue doing so.
 Trade tensions have nonetheless lessened considerably. Congress is out of session for most of the rest of the year because of midterm elections; the American economy is still growing fairly strongly; Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has taken a less confrontational approach to China; and the European Union and Japan have been reluctant to take the lead in addressing China's trade surpluses.
 Producer prices were 3.6 percent higher in July than a year earlier, compared with a 3.5 percent increase reported in June, the Chinese government also announced on Thursday.
 High prices for oil, copper and other raw materials are raising costs for Chinese companies. But massive investments in new factories, especially steel mills, are producing a glut of output in some sectors that has held down inflation in consumer prices, while fueling exports.
 Chinese steel exports rose 39.5 percent in the first seven months of this year compared with the same period last year, while Chinese steel imports fell 25.5 percent as more companies in China relied on local suppliers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); STATISTICS (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Records and Achievements

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (59%) Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%) China

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



183 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Indexes Off Again Despite Strong Earnings 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell for a fourth day yesterday as concern that future interest rate increases might slow economic growth outweighed optimism over strong corporate earnings.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 5.53 points, or 0.4 percent, to close at 1,265.95, after rising as much as 1 percent earlier in the day. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 97.41 points, or 0.9 percent, to 11,076.18.
 A gain by Cisco Systems helped limit the decline of the Nasdaq composite index, which fell 0.57 point, to 2,060.28. 
 The Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged on Tuesday for the first time since May 2004, holding its benchmark rate at 5.25 percent. The Fed statement also said that ''some inflation risks remain,'' leaving room for further increases in borrowing costs.
 The Fed pause ''didn't change anything from our standpoint,'' said David Scott, who helps oversee $5 billion at Chase Investment Counsel in Charlottesville, Va. ''I don't think that it makes the outlook any brighter for the foreseeable future.''
 Home builders fell for a second day after Toll Brothers, the nation's largest builder of luxury homes, reported its first slide in revenue from home sales in four years. 
 Toll said fiscal third-quarter revenue slipped 0.5 percent, to $1.53 billion, as rising mortgage rates and inventory hurt demand for real estate. Toll fell $1.70, to $24.88. An S.& P. measure of home builders retreated 4.5 percent.
 In another sign that the housing market is cooling, Countrywide Financial, the biggest provider of mortgages in the United States, reported a decline in new lending. Its shares fell $3.23, to $34.11. 
 Caterpillar slumped $3.08, to $68.52, for the biggest decline in the Dow average. Home Depot slid 93 cents, to $33.40, and an S.& P. 500 gauge of retailers fell 1.7 percent.
 The American International Group, the world's largest insurer, fell $1.19, to $58.49 before its second-quarter earnings report. Its shares fell further after the market closed, when it said that its net income dropped 29 percent, to $3.19 billion.
 Earnings from Cisco supported the market earlier in the day and raised optimism about the outlook for profit growth among computer-related companies. Cisco climbed $2.49, to $19.78. The company said revenue for the year ending July 2007 might rise as much as 20 percent. Cisco's fourth-quarter profit and revenue also topped estimates.
 A gauge of S.& P. 500 technology stocks rose 0.9 percent. Computer-related shares are still the worst performers in the benchmark this year, down 9.7 percent.
 Federated Department Stores gained 67 cents, to $34.46, after it lifted its profit forecast to $2 to $2.15 a share this fiscal year, up from an earlier projection of $1.91 to $2.04. Earnings of 57 cents a share last quarter were lifted by revenue gains and the sale of credit card receivables.
 Prices of Treasury securities declined yesterday. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 4/32, to 101 14/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.94 percent, from 4.92 percent on Tuesday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of 10-year Treasury notes: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.569
High Yield: 4.930
Low Yield: 4.870
Median Yield: 4.909
Total applied for: $30,485,063
Accepted: $14,556,560
Noncompetitive: $87,506
Interest set at: 7 7/8

The 10-year notes mature Aug. 15, 2016.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); RETAILERS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Interest Rates; Government Bonds; Finances; Credit

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (74%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%); CHASE INVESTMENT COUNSEL CORP (55%); MACY'S INC (52%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (74%); AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%); M (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (74%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



184 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Stanley in Deal 

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire Saxon Capital Inc., a residential mortgage lender and servicer, for $706 million. 
 Morgan Stanley said it would pay $14.10 a share in cash for Saxon, a 29 percent premium over Saxon's closing price of $10.97 on Tuesday. Shares of Saxon, based in Glen Allen, Va., rose $2.87 yesterday, or more than 26 percent, to close at $13.84.
Morgan Stanley began building up its mortgage business from within in 2001, but lost ground as rivals like Lehman and Bear Stearns snapped up several mortgage firms making loans that could then be packaged into bonds, issued and traded.
 Morgan shares fell $1.60, or 2.4 percent, to $64.68, on concern that the firm was expanding in mortgages at a time when the mortgage market was poised for a downturn, as higher interest rates cooled off a prolonged bull market in housing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING (91%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DIVESTITURES (70%) Housing; Mortgages; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: SAXON CAPITAL INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (90%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan Stanley; Saxon Capital Inc

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



185 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: 3 at Comverse Charged in Stock Options Case 

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL; Michael J. de la Merced and John Files contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Perhaps, in hindsight, naming a company account after ''Phantom of the Opera'' was not a good idea.
 Describing a brazen scheme to manipulate the granting of options, federal prosecutors in Brooklyn charged three former executives of Comverse Technology with mail, securities and wire fraud yesterday. The three executives, prosecutors said, used fictitious employees to create a secret slush fund of options to be distributed to favored employees.
Two of the executives, David Kreinberg, the former chief financial officer, and William F. Sorin, the former general counsel, were arraigned yesterday in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, where they were released on $1 million bail each, secured by their homes.
 But the third, the former chief executive, Jacob Alexander, 54, who had built Comverse, a communications software maker based in New York, into a $1 billion market leader, did not appear in court and is believed to have fled the country to either Germany or Israel, according to a person briefed on the investigation. 
 Mr. Alexander, known as Kobi, is a highly regarded executive in Israel, where he once owned a stake in a Tel Aviv professional basketball team and where Comverse has extensive business operations. In late July, he wired $57 million to an account in Israel, according to Justice Department court filings. Millions of dollars more are believed to remain in Mr. Alexander's Citigroup Smith Barney accounts in the United States, which prosecutors have asked to be frozen. Yesterday, a warrant was issued for his arrest. 
 The criminal case against the Comverse executives, who all resigned from the company in May, is the second involving the manipulation of stock options. Last month, federal prosecutors in San Francisco charged the former chief executive of Brocade Communications Systems and its former head of human resources with securities fraud.
 The Comverse case is the first to be brought by federal prosecutors in Brooklyn. The Securities and Exchange Commission also filed a civil complaint against the three men yesterday.
 ''In what can only be called an abuse of corporate power, these executives, through fraud and deceit, rewarded themselves and their friends at the expense of the investing public,'' said James W. Burrus Jr., the acting assistant director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, at a news conference in Washington yesterday.
 Mr. Burrus said that the F.B.I. was investigating 45 cases involving the backdating of options. More than 80 companies nationwide are now under investigation over their options practices by the S.E.C. or by federal prosecutors in San Francisco, Brooklyn and Manhattan.
 Lawyers for Mr. Alexander, of New York, and Mr. Kreinberg, 41, of Teaneck, N.J., declined to comment on the charges. A call to a lawyer for Mr. Sorin, 56, who lives in New York, was not returned.
 Prosecutors contend that the three men devised a complex scheme to backdate every companywide grant of options between 1998 and 2001 to days when Comverse's stock was trading at lower prices. 
 Options give an employee the right to buy a stock at some point in the future at the price of the stock on the day it was granted, commonly referred to as the strike price. The lower the strike price, the more an option is worth to the recipient. By dating the options back to a time when the stock was trading at a lower price, the recipient receives even bigger profits.
 But it was the top executives themselves who profited most from the scheme, prosecutors said.
 Between 1991 and 2005, Mr. Alexander made profits of $138 million on options he exercised and stock he sold, prosecutors said. About $6.4 million of that profit was a result of backdated options, prosecutors say. 
 Likewise, Mr. Kreinberg exercised options and sold shares for profits of about $13 million and Mr. Sorin for about $14 million, according to court filings. Around $1 million of the profits for each of the men came from backdating, prosecutors said.
 ''Each of the former executives realized substantial personal gains from the exercise of the illegally backdated option grants and the subsequent sell of Comverse common stock,'' said Linda Chatman Thomsen, the director of enforcement at the S.E.C. ''Collectively, they realized millions.''
 The criminal charges are a very public fall from grace for Mr. Alexander, who is credited with turning Comverse -- once a penny stock on the verge of failure -- into a market leader in voice-messaging software with global operations and annual revenues of more than $1 billion. Comverse has said it would have to restate financial results dating back to 2001 and possibly even further.
 Described by several former employees as a meticulous, intelligent man, Mr. Alexander is portrayed in the criminal complaint as someone who paid attention to the smallest detail at the company. (''How many C.E.O.'s do you know who reads every word of the footnotes?'' he told an employee, according to the complaint.) Mr. Alexander held a bachelor's degree in economics from Hebrew University of Jerusalem and a master's degree in finance from New York University.
 The other two men had sterling credentials as well. Mr. Kreinberg was previously a senior manager at Deloitte & Touche, the company's outside auditor, and Mr. Sorin was a Harvard-educated lawyer who, colleagues said, has a fondness for stride, a type of piano jazz that flourished in the 1920's. Mr. Sorin was general counsel from the company's inception in the 1980's through 2003. 
 According to court filings, the backdating of options began when an assistant who is unnamed in the court filings took on the job of compiling lists of employees for whom stock option grants were being proposed, for consideration by the board's compensation committee. The assistant kept a record of the employee names, option awards and dates in a spreadsheet through a software program called Equity Edge.
 It was around this time that Shaula Yemini, Mr. Alexander's sister, joined the board and became a member of the compensation committee. (Mr. Alexander's father, Zvi Alexander, was a board member for several years but did not sit on the compensation committee.)
 According to information provided to the government by the assistant, Mr. Alexander or Mr. Kreinberg instructed the assistant at various times to insert earlier dates -- when Comverse's stock was trading a lower price -- as the dates the stock options had been granted, although that was not true. Mr. Sorin would then place calls to members of the compensation committee to discuss the number of options that were to be awarded. 
 Two long-serving members of the committee told prosecutors they assumed that the option grants were dated on the date of the telephone calls. In fact, the calls came after the dates of the grants, prosecutors say.
 Around 1999, Mr. Alexander and Mr. Kreinberg instructed the assistant to create a secret account for options that the two could give to employees at Mr. Alexander's discretion, as incentives for recruitment and retention.
 The assistant, who had recently watched ''Phantom of the Opera,'' named the account ''I.M. Fanton,'' in an altered rendering of ''phantom,'' according to court documents. (Later, the assistant renamed the account ''Fargo,'' apparently after the movie of that name.)
 Mr. Alexander and Mr. Kreinberg told the assistant to put dozens of fictitious names on the list of employees proposed to receive options grants, awarding the fake employees about 5,000 options each to avoid attracting the compensation committee's attention, according to the complaint.
 After the compensation committee approved the list, the assistant aggregated at least 200,000 options into the Fanton/Fargo account.
 Over time, options from the slush fund account were transferred to real employees. In August 2000, the complaint said, the assistant was told to transfer 48,000 options from the account to a top executive in Israel because the executive was unhappy with the level of compensation.
 The options, as is typical, had a four-year vesting period, meaning they could be exchanged for stock after four years. But Mr. Alexander told the assistant to make the options exerciseable immediately.
 The Israeli executive, who is not identified in the court documents, exercised the options the next day when the stock was trading at nearly double the exercise price and immediately sold the stock for an ''instant $2 million profit,'' the court documents say. The same executive received another $2 million windfall four months later.
 When questions about the company's options practices began to arise, the three executives scrambled to hide the account from the board, a special committee formed to investigate the practice and the firm's outside auditor.
 ''When the story they delivered began to fall apart, they began to make admissions about their conduct, yet tried to justify their unlawful behavior,'' the complaint says. 
 Mr. Kreinberg, the former chief financial officer, even tampered with evidence as the special committee was being formed to investigate the options backdating, prosecutors said. Using the assistant's password, Mr. Kreinberg gained access to the options database and altered dates, the complaint said.
 In conversations with lawyers for Comverse, Mr. Alexander tried to justify the backdating and the creation of the slush fund account by saying he had to do it to retain people and that everyone in Silicon Valley was doing the same, according to the complaint.


GRAPHIC: Photos: David Kreinberg, left, and William F. Sorin, former executives of Comverse Technology, were arraigned on securities fraud charges in an options dating case yesterday in United States District Court in Brooklyn. (Photographs by Ramin Talaie for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Paul J. McNulty, a federal prosecutor, second from right, announced charges in Washington in an options case. (Photo by Charles Dharapak/Associated Press)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); LAWYERS (88%); ARRESTS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); ARREST WARRANTS (72%); BASKETBALL (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (54%) 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); BROCADE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Comverse Technology Inc; Comverse Technology Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BRCD (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%)

PERSON: David Kreinberg; William F Sorin; Jacob Alexander; Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



186 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

SLUMP IN VACATION HOMES As the overall housing market weakens, the interest in buying vacation homes, from the most modest condominiums on up, appears to be falling even faster. [Page A1.]

FINGER IN THE WIND ON HOUSING A little more than a year after the former Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, pointed to ''froth'' in the housing market, the industry faces a precarious future, as job growth and the economy slow under the twin burdens of higher borrowing costs and rising energy prices. [C1.] 


TROUBLE IN ALASKA Alaska remains shaken after BP said it would indefinitely shut down its largest field there, halting half the oil production on the North Slope. Gov. Frank H. Murkowski has ordered a freeze on hiring state workers and said he would ask the state attorney general to hold BP accountable for the loss of production. [A1.]

CHARGES AGAINST EXECUTIVES Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn charged three former executives of Comverse Technology with mail, securities and wire fraud. Prosecutors said the three executives, including the former chief executive, Jacob Alexander, left, created a secret slush fund for fictitious employees to dole out options to favored employees. [C1.]

NO DISMISSAL IN OPTIONS CASE A federal magistrate in San Francisco declined to dismiss a criminal case against two former executives of Brocade Communications, the first charged in connection with the backdating of stock options, ruling that there were enough accusations for the case to continue. [C5.]

PAULSON REINFORCES HIS REACH Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has spent his first weeks in office seeking to assert control within the administration over international economic issues, focusing in particular on developing a plan to confront China's growing economic clout, officials say. [C1.]

MONEY IN THIRST Everyone knows there is a lot of money to be made in oil. But a fresh group of big businesses is discovering there may be even greater profit in municipal water. Most analysts expect the water market in the United States to be worth at least $150 billion by 2010. [C1.]

DAY LABOR AGREEMENT The A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the nation's largest organization of day laborers signed a partnership agreement intended to help the languishing labor movement tap into the huge energy of the immigrant rights movement. [A19.]

ANXIETY OVER VACATIONS American workers sacrifice many vacation days, and when they do take time off, they spend a lot of it checking in with the office. But even as the American vacation is dying, the anxiety surrounding it is surging, according to surveys of workers. [G1.]

CAR BUYERS THINK SMALL As gasoline prices surge past $3 a gallon in most of the country and closer to $4 in some cities, sales figures show Americans are snapping up small cars that go easier on fuel and on their wallets. [C4.]

WAL-MART BACKS UNIONS IN CHINA After years of fighting unionization efforts, Wal-Mart Stores said it would work closely with Chinese officials to establish labor unions at all its outlets in that country. [C4.]

FUROR OVER TOY HUMMERS McDonald's has started putting toy Hummers in children's Happy Meal boxes, drawing criticism from environmental groups. Advertising. [C4.]

FANNIE MAE INQUIRY COMPLETED Fannie Mae said it believed that a wide-ranging review had now uncovered all its accounting errors, clearing the way for the company to complete the restatement of its 2004 earnings by the end of the year. [C6.]

US WEEKLY SOLD BACK TO WENNER Walt Disney said it planned to sell its half of Us Weekly magazine to Wenner Media for $300 million. Disney had bought that half from Wenner in 2001 for only $40 million. [C11.]

U.S. WARNS OF WINDOWS FLAW The Department of Homeland Security issued an unusual security alert, warning users of Windows-based personal computers to patch a potential flaw in the Microsoft operating system. [C11.]

ANOTHER DAY OF LOSSES Stocks fell for a fourth day as concern that future interest rate increases may slow economic growth outweighed optimism over corporate earnings. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 5.53 points, to 1,265.95. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 97.41, to 11,076.18. And the Nasdaq fell 0.57 point, to 2060.28. [C13.]

CHINA TRADE SURPLUS China announced on Thursday another record trade surplus, even as tensions between China and many of its trading partners have cooled somewhat. [C2.]

ONLINE

TOYOTA ON THE VERGE Micheline Maynard of The Times discusses the climb by the Japanese automaker Toyota toward the industry's top spot at nytimes.com/business.

Business Briefing
 Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES, parent of Macy's and Bloomingdale's, said its quarterly profit more than doubled, helped by a tax settlement and the sale of credit card receivables. (REUTERS)

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, the world's largest insurer, said that second-quarter profit dropped 29 percent on a decline in the value of derivative investments held during the period. Net income dropped to $3.19 billion, from $4.49 billion. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

THE TRAVEL SERVICES COMPANY Cendant said it posted a $754 million loss in the second quarter on reorganization costs associated with the breakup of the company into four businesses. (AP)

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); MAGISTRATES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (66%); STOCK OPTIONS (66%); IMMIGRATION (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



187 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: At Edge of the Earth, an Oil Leak Rattles a State and Its Workers

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: DEADHORSE, Alaska, Aug. 9 

 BODY:
There was a newspaper here once. It was back in the boom years of the 1980's, when the crude oil surging up from 9,000 feet beneath the earth and ice was still transforming Alaska's North Slope from Arctic wilderness to flush frontier.
 Now this frontier town has no newspaper. Nor a resident mayor or town council or even any real residents. It is just a drill site with as many as 5,000 people -- no one seems to have a firm count -- who cycle in and out, year round, often on two-week hitches.
They are mostly men, and they work on wells controlled by BP, ConocoPhillips, Exxon Mobil and other companies. Or they repair trucks and pumps. Or they run the desk or the kitchen at the camps that house and feed the work force. And this week, some of them worry more than they ever have.
 ''Everybody's scared,'' said David Marshall, a field hand for ASRC Energy Services, a subcontractor with BP. ''Everybody's scared for their jobs. Everybody's calling everybody.'' 
 The outlook has improved for some since Sunday, when BP said it would indefinitely shut down its largest field here, Prudhoe Bay, halting half the oil production on the North Slope, about 8 percent of the nation's total oil production. The company has revised that forecast and now says perhaps only a fourth of the production will be cut, because repairs could happen quickly.
 Yet Alaska, which receives about 86 percent of its general fund revenues from taxes on the oil industry, remains shaken. 
 On Wednesday, Gov. Frank H. Murkowski ordered a freeze on hiring state workers and said he would ask the state attorney general to investigate the circumstances surrounding the shutdown, said John Manly, a spokesman for Mr. Murkowski, a Republican.
 Here in Deadhorse, some slopers, as the regulars call themselves, track the developments closely on television and worry aloud. Others say concerns that the shutdown will have lasting consequences are overblown. Many even see opportunity.
 The rhythm of work here is distinctive, as are the commutes. Some companies pay to fly their employees to Fairbanks or Anchorage between hitches, while other workers travel farther to go home. Many people said the motivation for working was not the money itself but the short time it took to earn it. Workers say they earn enough in overtime here to compensate for working essentially only half the year.
 ''Time off,'' said Joree Lawson, who rents rooms, sells cigarettes and sundries and solves endless problems from her perch at the front desk of the Prudhoe Bay Hotel. ''That's what everybody works for.'' 
 Dale Otcheck, working behind the counter at Brooks Range Supply, predicted that business would pick up because of the disruption. Mr. Otcheck recalled the surge in activity in March after BP discovered a 270,000-gallon spill. ''That last spill, it just went nuts here,'' he said.
 Brooks Range Supply is part hardware store, part general store, part post office and pretty much all there is for retail in the rock-road bustle of tractor-trailers and droning machinery that defines Deadhorse, ZIP code 99734, seven miles south of the Arctic Ocean.
 Far north of the Brooks Mountain Range, Deadhorse can seem a strange coastal prairie when summer melts away the winter ice. Even on the clearest days little is in view but distant peaks, water, marsh and spare steel structures. Signs on many doors warn, ''Bears in the area,'' and, indeed, on Tuesday night a grizzly caroused among the corrugated exteriors.
 The seat of local government, the North Slope Borough, is 200 miles west in Barrow, and there is no road from here to there. The route south to civilization in Fairbanks is a 12-hour haul through the tundra. The nearest tree of any reckoning, those who travel here regularly claim, is 160 miles away.
 As oil markets shudder and BP struggles to maintain the image of an energy company with an environmental conscience, the focus here is on getting the corroded transit lines repaired or replaced and getting back to work. 
 On Monday night, Gary Williams, a mechanic for VECO, a major support contractor for oil companies here, shopped for knee pads. ''It's job security, actually, for me,'' Mr. Williams said when asked if the shutdown had had an effect on the tiny yet globally critical local economy. 
 Mr. Williams was among several people who said early in the week that he had heard that BP was sending some workers home to make way for others to come in and make repairs. Others said they had seen no change at all, except for some seasonal employees being shipped out early. A spokesman for BP, Neil Chapman, said that no layoffs were planned and that about 180 workers were being sent in to help the 800 people the company employs here make repairs.
 ''It's too early to say what personnel impact there is going to be,'' Mr. Chapman said.
 BP's workforce on the North Slope is far below its peak of around 2,000 in the 1990's, Mr. Chapman said. The original Prudhoe Bay oil field was discovered in 1968, and pumping began in 1977. That first year, up to 1.5 million barrels a day were pumped from the site, he said. Now the site is what is called a mature field, and it is far less productive, pumping a maximum of about 400,000 barrels of oil a day into the Trans-Alaska Pipeline, where it then travels 800 miles south to the port of Valdez.
 The future of oil production at Prudhoe Bay, the largest oil field in the United States, is tangled in issues like depletion of the fields, global pressure to find alternate sources of energy and debate in the state capital, Juneau, over whether to increase taxes on oil companies. There are also plans, remote for now, to spend about $20 billion for a natural gas pipeline that would tap the gas that is as abundant below ground here as oil seemed in the 1960's. 
 Some here see the shutdown as less about protecting the environment or BP's image than as BP flexing its muscles to influence the state debate over taxes and natural gas.
 ''They can just shut off the valve and say, 'O.K., Alaska, tax this,' '' said Charles Thorpe, who supplies wells and other production sites for VECO.
 Mr. Chapman dismissed that notion. ''We're not in the business of power plays by disrupting production, disrupting our business, by having to stand and apologize to the nation,'' he said. Asked about the prospect of a state hiring freeze, he said: ''Again, the immediate reaction is an apology. It's something we deeply regret, the impact this is having on others.''
 For now, Deadhorse lopes onward. Ms. Lawson, of the Prudhoe Bay Hotel, plans to continue as she has for 14 years, splitting her months between Deadhorse and her hometown, across the continent in Opp, Ala. When the workday is over, people mostly disappear into tiny rooms with twin beds and, if they are lucky, 10-inch television screens.
 ''We don't look for entertainment,'' Ms. Lawson said. ''When we're not working, we all go to our room.'' 
 While there are tales of ribald and reckless frontier nights from the early years of production, alcohol is now prohibited practically everywhere. A six-pack of Sharp's, a nonalcoholic beer, costs a flat $10 at Brooks Range Supply. The store stocks an eclectic inventory, including the new Kris Kristofferson album, ''This Old Road,'' which runs $22.95; long racks of Carhartt work clothes; and a formidable selection of adult publications.
 The origin of the name Deadhorse is uncertain. A column that ran in the long-ago closed Prudhoe Bay Journal offers a range of colorful explanations but settles on a tale of a wealthy New York businessman who backed his son in a local gravel business called Deadhorse Haulers. 
 The business failed, and the father eventually stopped investing. According to the column, by Deborah Bernard, who now works in the general store at Brooks Range Supply, he told someone, ''I hate to put money into feeding a dead horse.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A shutdown of the Prudhoe Bay oil field is cause for concern in Alaska, where the bulk of general fund revenue comes from industry taxes. (Photos by Charles Mason for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
A young grizzly bear ambled through the industrial trappings of Deadhorse, Alaska, on Tuesday. (Photo by Charles Mason for The New York Times)
Site of the spill (Photo by BP)
 (Photo by Dylan Loeb McClain/The New York Times)(pg. A21)Chart: ''A Pipe Problem''BP found an oil leak and significant corrosion in some of its pipelines in Prudhoe Bay. Corrosion is normal, but in some places the steel sides of the pipes had lost more than 70 percent of their original thickness -- a level of corrosion that BP considered unsafe for operation.OVERVIEW OF OPERATIONSGC = Gathering centerFS = Flow stationGathering centers and flow stations are the processing facilities in the area. Oil, natural gas and water are pumped out of the ground from wells and are sent through pipelines to these facilities to be separated. The oil goes to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline, which carries it 800 miles south to Valdez. Most of the natural gas and the water are injected back into the ground to increase pressure to aid in extracting more oil. The gathering centers and flow stations highlighted below have been idled by the pipeline shutdown.Ownership of Prudhoe BayBP (Operator) : 26%ExxonMobil: 36%ConocoPhillips: 36%Other: 2%The pipes that must be repaired30'' diameterSteel thickness = 3/8''Foam insulation = 2''Aluminum jacket(Source by BP)(pg. A21)Map of Alaska highlighting the site of the leak. (pg. A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (77%); MAYORS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); OVERTIME (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); FARM LABOR (54%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%) 

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Bp Plc

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); COP (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: William Yardley; Frank H (Gov) Murkowski

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (96%); EARTH (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (90%) Prudhoe Bay (Alaska); Alaska; Deadhorse (Alaska)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



188 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Scarcity, Mother of Invention

BYLINE: By Stephen L. Sass. 
Stephen L. Sass, a professor of materials science and engineering at Cornell, is the author of ''The Substance of Civilization: Materials and Human History From the Stone Age to the Age of Silicon.''

DATELINE: Ithaca, N.Y. 

 BODY:
IN the wake of the closure of a BP oil field in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, oil prices shot up to $77 a barrel on Wednesday, and the chorus of doomsayers concerned about the dire consequences of our fossil fuel dependency has reached a crescendo. If oil hits $100 a barrel, the impact on our economy and lifestyle could be catastrophic, the handwringers warn. But while such a specter seems novel and terrifying, it is in fact familiar and useful.
 Throughout history, shortages of vital resources have driven innovation, and energy has often starred in these technological dramas. The desperate search for new sources of energy and new materials has frequently produced remarkable advances that no one could have imagined when the shortage first became evident. 
Consider the transition from the use of bronze to iron in making tools and weapons, which occurred around the 12th century B.C. Early in the second millennium B.C., iron was known as the stuff of meteorites. It was rare and highly prized: if you wanted to give a gift to a pharaoh or a king you didn't give a gold dagger but an iron one. But when the eastern Mediterranean fell short of tin from which to make bronze, a technological revolution occurred. Artisans learned to extract metallic iron from iron-rich materials by heating with charcoal (a process called smelting), which caused the price of iron to fall by a factor of 80,000 over 1200 years. The Iron Age had begun.
 Later, in Britain in the 1600's, another shortfall would drive still more invention. As the British empire expanded, demands increased on the island nation's natural resources, particularly its forests. The British used so much wood for heating homes, building the ships of its mighty fleet and making charcoal to smelt iron and to fuel other industrial processes that there was eventually a shortage that has been called a ''timber famine'' in England. 
 Wood shortages drove the use of coal. But coal had never been the choice fuel for smelting iron because it contains sulfur, which renders iron brittle. Indeed, King James II of Scotland was killed in 1460 by an exploding cannon fashioned from brittle iron. Abraham Darby, the owner of an iron foundry at Coalbrookdale along the Severn River in the west of England, solved this problem when he developed a process to drive the unwanted impurities from coal, producing coke in 1709. Coke was so cheap that Darby could sell cast-iron pots and kettles at prices accessible to common folk. 
 The story goes on. In order to dig for coal, deep mine shafts were sunk, and these tended to flood. The steam engine was first developed to pump out the mines. The steam engine in turn became the primary new source of power for the Industrial Revolution. All of which came about because of a shortage of wood. Eventually, this cycle of shortage and invention would lead to the canal system in England, railroads and thermodynamics. 
 The bottom line is that the very process of developing alternative sources of energy to replace fossil fuels may yield benefits beyond our imagining. But if instead we fail to innovate, the consequences could be devastating. 
 On a recent drive across the country, my wife and I visited a 1000-year-old Indian village that is being unearthed slowly in Mitchell, S.D. The village existed for less than 100 years, because its inhabitants ran out of the wood they used for fuel and to construct their homes. Forced to migrate to the Missouri River, these Indians became the Mandan. Many years later, Lewis and Clark wintered with the Mandan at the start of their long expedition west. 
 If there is anything to be learned from history, it's that we need to face the harsh reality of fossil fuel scarcity and begin something like a Manhattan project to develop clean, economical, and preferably sustainable new sources of energy. Just as importantly, we need to innovate on the side of conservation and efficiency. The Indians of Mitchell were able to move to the Missouri, but if we use up, or more realistically, greatly deplete, the resources of this earth, we have no place to go.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christophe Vorlet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BRITISH MONARCHS (72%); HISTORY (71%); UNDERGROUND MINING (71%); IRON FOUNDRIES (68%); MILLENNIUM (68%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (68%); COAL MINING (66%); COAL INDUSTRY (61%) 

ORGANIZATION: Bp Plc

PERSON: Stephen L (Prof) Sass

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (86%); SCOTLAND (69%); MEDITERRANEAN (55%) Alaska; Prudhoe Bay (Alaska)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



189 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Deceit Beyond Bounds

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
It sure looks like American voters want change. And here's an example of the kind of thing they want a change from.
 In a move that was typically and patently deceitful, Republicans in Congress tried to pass a minimum wage measure last week in which the biggest winners would have been some of the wealthiest people in America.
The G.O.P. has tended to fight minimum wage hikes the way the Hatfields battled the McCoys. But suddenly this summer, Republicans discovered minimum wage legislation that they could truly love. G.O.P. leaders in Congress linked a modest increase in the minimum wage to a whopping decrease in the estate tax. The cut in the estate tax would have cost the government at least $268 billion in revenue over the next decade, and probably a lot more. 
 In exchange for this estate tax bonanza for the fabulously wealthy, the G.O.P. was willing to approve a $2.10-an-hour increase, stretched over three years, in the miserly $5.15-an-hour minimum wage. It was made clear that any Democrats who dared oppose this raid on the Treasury would be targeted by Republicans as obstructionists blocking a sorely needed wage hike for the lowest-paid workers in the nation.
 I'm for an increase in the minimum wage and against a cut in the estate tax. But that's not the point here. The point is the extent to which the Republican Party is willing to engage in deceit to try and achieve ends it could not achieve any other way. The latest incarnation of the Republican Party has taken deceit in government and politics to dangerous new extremes, and it's time to call a halt to it.
 The war in Iraq will be remembered as one of the greatest exercises in systematic governmental deceit in U.S. history. But the Iraq fiasco is just the most stunning and tragic example of a style of governing and politicking that has become second nature to the Bush administration and much of the national Republican establishment.
 This is a crowd that will tell you with a straight face that it is creating a wondrous new world in the Middle East, that it is doing what it can to stem the ominous tide of global warming, that the United States does not engage in torture, that the administration carefully guards the civil liberties of ordinary Americans, and that it does not favor the wealthy over poor and working people.
 These are folks who will tell you that up is down, and punish you for insisting that up is up.
 It is in that same deceitful and vengeful spirit that the party is now attacking Democratic senators who managed to hold fast, under the leadership of the minority leader, Harry Reid, to defeat the legislation that cynically tied the estate tax windfall to an increase in the minimum wage.
 The National Republican Senatorial Committee declared that Maria Cantwell, a Democratic senator from Washington who voted against the bogus bill, ''decided that giving in to pressure from her party's leadership was more important than voting to raise the federal minimum wage.''
 Senator Cantwell, who is up for re-election this year, favors an increase in the minimum wage, as does her party's leadership. It has been the Democratic Party that has been pushing for years for an increase in the minimum wage, but there is no room for that reality in the G.O.P.'s corrosive culture of deceit.
 The buying power of the minimum wage is at a 50-year low. Members of Congress have raised their own pay by $31,600 since the last increase in the minimum wage nine years ago. For Republicans to exploit the plight of workers buried in economic hardship in order to put millions of additional dollars into the portfolios of the already wealthy is beyond egregious.
 ''If you landed here from Mars and looked at Congress's agenda,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, ''you'd think that the problem in America is that rich people don't have enough money.''
 If the Republicans wanted to increase the minimum wage, they could do it in about the time it takes to snap your finger. Democrats would be on board, and the legislative language would not have to be much longer than a paragraph.
 They don't want a minimum wage increase; they want a cut in the estate tax.
 Regrettably, there is always a certain amount of deceit in politics. Republicans do not have a monopoly on it. But for a system like ours to work even reasonably well, governmental deceit has to be held within certain limits. Otherwise the system will break down.
 Today's Republican Party has gone far beyond those limits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); APPROVALS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); HISTORY (63%); IRAQ WAR (63%) 

PERSON: HARRY REID (57%) Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



190 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1759 words

HEADLINE: In the High-Price Playgrounds, Many Homes Wait for a Buyer 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: WESTHAMPTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The brand new 6,000-square-foot vacation home, backing on a boat dock on Moriches Bay, has been on the market for more than a year. After plenty of showings, but no offers, the investor who built the house recently cut the price twice, by a total of $600,000, to $4 million.
 It has still not been sold. To be sure, the price reductions have created more interest, according to the agent representing the owner, and he now hopes that it will be sold right after Labor Day, a prime season for home transactions in the Hamptons.
 ''My feeling is that everybody is waiting for the dust to settle before they make their big decision,'' said the agent, Ira Birns of Prudential Douglas Elliman. But, he acknowledged ruefully, ''there is a lot to choose from.'' 
 It is not just the most expensive vacation homes that are going begging. The once-bustling deal making in a wide variety of popular locations for second homes -- areas like Florida, the Jersey Shore and Lake Tahoe, as well as the high-price playground on the East End of Long Island -- has slowed markedly in recent months. 
 As the overall housing market weakens, the interest in buying vacation homes, from the most modest condominiums on up, appears to be falling faster. Unlike most metropolitan areas -- where underlying demand and the normal turnover in primary homes as a result of job moves, new households and family changes provide a more solid floor under prices -- the second-home market relies on a different set of motivations that tends to exaggerate booms and busts. 
 ''Second-home buying is very discretionary,'' said Edward Leamer, an economist at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''There is no force of demographics that is pushing people into buying homes as there is in primary home markets.''
 In second-home markets around the country, the number of sales is shrinking even as the properties on the market increase. Prices at all levels are softening, and in a few places recently have begun dropping. 
 In Florida, price declines have been most pronounced in areas dominated by second-home sales. In June, median prices -- half the homes sold for more and half for less -- fell 8 percent from a year earlier in Naples and nearby Marco Island on the west coast and 10 percent in Panama City in the Panhandle, according to the Florida Association of Realtors.
 By comparison, prices rose 3 percent statewide, 4 percent in Miami and 10 percent in Orlando. (In addition to the overbuilding factor, rapidly rising insurance premiums tied to the greater risk of hurricane damage have hurt home sales in many coastal areas of Florida.)
 Paul J. Ciotti, 60, a retired New York teacher, has had his two-bedroom beachfront condominium in Naples on the market since late last year. He first asked $999,000, when ''everybody was going for pie in the sky.''
 [He has since cut the price to $799,000, which he says is a bargain because there is little undeveloped beachfront property left in Naples. ''The beachfront is still much stronger,'' he said. ''It always will be.'']
 While the market's strength will be tested this fall, there is little doubt that waterfront property has had a nice run in Naples and elsewhere. Mr. Ciotti's apartment sold for $153,000 in 1987 when the building opened; he bought it for $515,000 in 2004, according to county property records.
 During the boom, prices in regions with a heavy concentration of second-home sales rose higher and faster than elsewhere, an analysis by Moody's Economy.com of national mortgage and housing data showed.
 In 2004, the latest year for which data is available, Ocean City, N.J., at 73 percent, headed the list of metropolitan areas with high shares of second homes. From 2002 to 2005, home prices in the area, which includes Cape May, rose at an average annual rate of 17 percent, compared with 10 percent for the nation as a whole and 14 percent for New Jersey.
 ''These have been the most juiced-up markets,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. 
 But this spring and summer, median home prices in the Ocean City area have fallen by 10 to 15 percent from a year earlier. Sales have slowed and more houses are sitting on the market, according to Nicholas J. Marotta, president of the Ocean City Board of Realtors.
 He blames speculators for rapidly inflating and then depressing the market by trading in condominiums and oceanfront homes that they bought with low-interest loans requiring only small down payments.
 A local developer added that new construction had flooded the market, with more than 100 homes priced at $2 million or more. ''We believed in our own confidence,'' said the developer, Raffaele Pansini, who has been building homes for nine years. ''And in a way, we proved ourselves wrong because we don't have 100 buyers coming in.''
 Like others in the area, he predicted that demand would eventually catch up but that this could take some time.
 Elsewhere, increased worries about rising interest rates, higher energy costs and a slowing economy have left some prospective buyers queasy about investing in a second or third property.
 That is the experience of Shari Chase, whose real estate firm, Chase International, specializes in the Lake Tahoe winter ski and summer recreation area that straddles the California-Nevada border. Sales fell 35 percent in the first six months of 2006 from the period a year earlier. Prices eked out a 2 percent increase, according to DataQuick Information Systems, a research firm.
 Vacation homes, like other luxury items, are frequently caught up in booms that appear to defy gravity. But they depend on a relatively narrow slice of the population, mostly affluent baby boomers, leaving them vulnerable to sudden downturns. 
 While a number of vacation homes are bought with cash, mortgage data suggests that second homes made up about 14 percent of all home sales in 2004, up from 8.4 percent in 2001.
 A survey of consumer finances conducted every three years by the Federal Reserve found that the overall interest in second homes tends to closely follow the ups and downs of the economic cycle. In 1989, some 13.4 percent of those responding said they owned a second home, but that figure fell during the recession in the early 1990's and reached a low point of 11.9 percent in 1995. Such ownership rose to 13 percent in 1998 but fell back to 11.4 percent in 2001 before rising again to 12.6 percent in 2004.
 Anecdotal evidence suggests that vacation homes might have reached a new high-water mark in 2005.
 ''I saw a lot of clients buy first, and ask questions later, on second and third properties,'' said Leo P. Grohowski, chief investment officer at U.S. Trust, which caters to affluent families.
 Much of Florida and the Jersey Shore, areas considerably more affordable than the Hamptons, have been favored destinations lately for his well-to-do clients and friends, many of whom encouraged Mr. Grohowski to buy with them. He is happy that he resisted, he said, though ''for a while, I was looking like a dummy.''
 Real estate experts note that second-home markets have a natural self-correcting mechanism. However much local people may believe in their particular slice of paradise, destinations can price themselves out of the market. Plenty of people are willing to pay more for waterfront property, privacy and pristine vistas, but no region has a monopoly on those features.
 ''This is a very efficient market,'' said Richard A. Smith, vice chairman and president of Realogy, the former real estate arm of Cendant that owns Coldwell Banker and Sotheby's International Realty. ''When you don't like the pricing someplace, you can go someplace else.''
 Still, the market for high luxury, homes costing more than $5 million, tends to be more resilient, said George R. Simpson, president of the Suffolk Research Service, a firm that monitors the real estate market in the East End of Long Island.
 ''This is a market that is driven by ego and wannabes,'' he said. ''People come here because it's the thing to do. Every time P. Diddy has a cocktail party, the prices go up a little.''
 But data collected by Mr. Simpson's firm shows that even the Hamptons are not impervious to weakness. Median home prices in East Hampton and Southampton, including the surrounding villages and hamlets, languished in the low $200,000's for most of the 1990's. Adjusted for inflation, prices did not climb past their 1990 levels until the end of the decade. 
 But for the first six months of 2006, median prices are up 4 percent in Southampton, to $766,000, and 13 percent in East Hampton, to $900,000, according to Suffolk Research, though some of that could reflect a shift in sales toward the top of the market. The number of sales, however, is down 14 percent in Southampton and 19 percent in East Hampton.
 Although agents insist that nothing akin to the 1990's slump is setting in, they are spending more time promoting properties and hand-holding sellers -- exercises considered unnecessary when homes were moving in a week or so and bidding wars were common.
 Earlier this month, Elisabeth Mills, an East Hampton agent who works at the Corcoran Group, started showing a commercial on cable television for a $2.3 million modern home, down from $2.5 million, and another home, built on speculation and offered at $1.99 million. The second property is in a neighborhood where the fashion designer Donna Karan and the rap star and entrepreneur P. Diddy live.
 Ms. Mills is paying for the 30-second spot, which pans through the interiors and exteriors of the homes and is being shown on CNBC, HGTV and a local cable news channel in Suffolk County, in hopes that it will create extra buzz among agents and potential buyers. 
 Response to the ad has been ''pretty amazing,'' she said, particularly from other builders looking for ways to market their own homes. ''We seem to have increased activity from brokers,'' she said.
 Walter Priestley, who built the larger house in the ad, said the marketing campaign for the property also includes direct mail and open houses (wine and cheese on Saturdays; bagels and coffee on Sundays) -- all in an effort to set his home apart from others. He says he is confident it will be sold by Labor Day.
 ''There are still plenty of buyers,'' Mr. Priestly said. ''We have 20 to 30 people showing up every time we have an open house.''


(Sources by Suffolk Research Service, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Moody's Economy.com, Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight and Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data.)(pg. C6)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elisabeth Mills, a Corcoran Group agent, is showing commercials on cable TV, including the interiors, of some high-end East Hampton property.
Walter Priestley of East Hampton built a large house shown in cable ads. (Photographs by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg. C6)
 Sale of this Hamptons house is promoted with wine and cheese. (Photo by Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Home Sweet Second Home''For much of this decade prices in the Hamptons, like several other second-home markets, have risen sharply. But price increases are slowing and some experts now predict a period of weakness. In the 1990's nominal prices were flat, and they fell in inflation-adjusted dollars.Graphs show SOUTHAMPTON* and EAST HAMPTON* median home prices (INFLATION-ADJUSTED TO 1990 DOLLARS) compared to their ACTUAL PRICE.*Includes a number of villages and townshipDuring real estate booms, like that in the early 2000's, prices tend to rise faster in markets with a large share of vacation homes. Second homes made up a big percentage of home mortgages issued in 2004 in the metropolitan areas below.SELECTED AREAS: Ocean City, N.J.SECOND HOMES' SHARE OF MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS 2004: 72.7%AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICE RISE, 2002 THROUGH 2005: 17.0%SELECTED AREAS: Naples, Fla.SECOND HOMES' SHARE OF MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS 2004: 45.1AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICE RISE, 2002 THROUGH 2005: 20.5SELECTED AREAS: Barnstable, Mass. (Cape Cod)SECOND HOMES' SHARE OF MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS 2004: 39.7AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICE RISE, 2002 THROUGH 2005: 13.4SELECTED AREAS: Flagstaff, Ariz.SECOND HOMES' SHARE OF MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS 2004: 31.3AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICE RISE, 2002 THROUGH 2005: 15.5SELECTED AREAS: Port St. Lucie, Fla.SECOND HOMES' SHARE OF MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS 2004: 31.3AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICE RISE, 2002 THROUGH 2005: 21.6SELECTED AREAS: Bend, Ore.SECOND HOMES' SHARE OF MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS 2004: 28.8AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICE RISE, 2002 THROUGH 2005: 13.9SELECTED AREAS: Coeur d'Alene, IdahoSECOND HOMES' SHARE OF MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS 2004: 28.7AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICE RISE, 2002 THROUGH 2005: 14.5SELECTED AREAS: Las VegasSECOND HOMES' SHARE OF MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS 2004: 25.4AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICE RISE, 2002 THROUGH 2005: 17.7SELECTED AREAS: San Luis Obispo, Calif.SECOND HOMES' SHARE OF MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS 2004: 24.7AVERAGE ANNUAL PRICE RISE, 2002 THROUGH 2005: 16.4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (87%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); LAKES (67%); TROPICAL STORMS (66%); CITIES (65%); HURRICANES (60%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%) 

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (56%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (79%); COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); BEND, OR, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Florida ; Hamptons (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



191 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing New England: Massachusetts: Longshoremen Accused In Payroll Scheme

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA (NYT)

 BODY:
Twenty people have been indicted as part of an investigation into payroll and unemployment fraud at the Boston longshoremen's union, Attorney General Thomas F. Reilly announced. Mr. Reilly said the individuals, all of whom unload ships in Boston Harbor, placed children, some younger than 10, on the payroll, falsified working hours to increase pay and benefits and collected unemployment benefits while working as longshoremen. Mr. Reilly announced an investigation into the practices in June 2005. The individuals, 14 longshoremen, two former business agents for the union, three managers and one employee of Massport, the quasi-independent agency that runs the Port of Boston, will be arraigned Sept. 5. KATIE ZEZIMA (NYT) 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); INDICTMENTS (88%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); MARINE SHIPPING (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%) Ships and Shipping ; Organized Labor; Frauds and Swindling; Stevedoring

PERSON: Katie Zezima; Thomas F (Atty Gen) Reilly

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



192 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Detroit's Answer to $3-$4 Gas: New Muscle Cars

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting from Detroit for this article.

DATELINE: TRAVERSE CITY, Mich., Aug. 9 

 BODY:
As gasoline prices surge past $3 a gallon in most of the country and closer to $4 in some cities, sales figures show Americans are snapping up small cars that go easier on fuel and on their wallets. 
 But none of the smallest cars are designed or developed by Detroit companies, which in the face of high gas prices are now highlighting another kind of automobile not usually thought of as energy efficient: the muscle car.
Ford Motor said Wednesday that it planned to build a 325-horsepower version of the Ford Shelby GT. It also plans a big luxury car, the Lincoln MKS, which will become the struggling brand's flagship sedan. The announcement came at an industry conference here sponsored by the Center for Automotive Research. 
 On Thursday, General Motors is expected to confirm that it will resurrect one of its most famous muscle cars, the Chevrolet Camaro, which was a hit at the Detroit auto show in January.
 To be sure, automotive executives, who have watched cars take four market share points away from light trucks this year, are emphasizing their commitment to building more fuel-efficient vehicles, and talking up the ones they already sell. 
 On Wednesday, G.M. told analysts in Detroit that its market share gains in the last three months reflected the popularity of its car models. ''We do have great car products; we do have great fuel performance,'' said Mark R. LaNeve, a vice president for North American sales, service and marketing. 
 Though 60 percent of the models G.M. sells are light trucks, including pickups and sport utility vehicles, it offers the only subcompact car sold by a Detroit company: the Chevrolet Aveo, which is built for G.M. by its Korean partner, Daewoo. 
 Ford or Chrysler sell no subcompacts in the United States, even though they or their corporate parents sell them in other global markets.
 By contrast, Toyota, Honda and Nissan have all introduced small cars in the last few months, all of them sold overseas. 
 ''It is a mistake and it's very disappointing,'' said John Casesa, managing partner of Casesa Strategic Advisers in New York. ''I just think it shows that Detroit still has a business model predicated on low energy prices.''
 Eric Ridenour, chief operating officer of DaimlerChrysler's Chrysler division, said he expected Chrysler to announce its plans for a subcompact before the end of the year. But officials at Chrysler, which has the industry's heaviest dependence on light trucks, at nearly 75 percent, are still not sure that a small car can be as successful in the United States as in Europe, Canada and Mexico, he said. Chrysler recently introduced a compact, the Dodge Caliber, built in Illinois.
 ''It's a very tough segment to make money in,'' Mr. Ridenour said of subcompacts, which earn roughly one-tenth the gross profit of a pickup. ''Obviously we'd like to have the product now and be selling it today, but we won't do it to lose money.''
 Mark Fields, president of Ford's Americas division, said Ford, which sells subcompacts in every other global region, realizes the importance of the subcompact segment and intends to compete in it soon. 
 Mr. Fields, whose company depends on light trucks for about two-thirds of its sales, said he expected annual sales of these small cars to reach 600,000 in the United States by the end of the decade. But Ford will not rush a product to market simply in the hopes of keeping up with competitors, he said.
 ''I want to make sure that we come in with a product that's distinctly Ford,'' Mr. Fields told reporters, adding that he did not want the company to ''just get in there with an econobox.''
 Mr. Fields admitted that the company underestimated how quickly rising gas prices would cause the market to shift. Sales of pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, which have accounted for the bulk of American makers' profits in recent years, have plummeted as cars grow more popular. In July, Ford's sales of F-series pickup trucks dropped over 40 percent while the Ford Explorer S.U.V. fell over 50 percent.
 Ford, in fact, blames higher gas prices for the slow start to its turnaround plan, announced in January. Mr. Fields said Ford, which lost $254 million in the second quarter, will disclose details of its expedited plan in September. They could include more job cuts, plant closings or other drastic cost-cutting measures.
 ''We may have to go further and deeper than we ever imagined,'' he said.
 Ford already sells several subcompacts, including the Fiesta and the EcoSport, in other countries, but its smallest car available in the United States is the Focus hatchback, which has been overshadowed in recent years by the company's emphasis on big pickups and S.U.V.'s.
 Although models designed for Europe or Asia require some changes to meet American regulations and the tastes of consumers, ''it's not that complicated'' for a carmaker to make such changes, Mr. Casesa said, noting that both Honda and Toyota did so quickly. Toyota Motor has sold over 32,000 Yaris cars in the United States since the small model went on sale in March, including 10,000 in June alone, according to Autodata. 
 Honda Motor, meanwhile, has sold over 15,000 Fits in the United States since April. Nissan Motor dealers have sold about 3,000 Versas since the car went on sale in late June.
 ''The Japanese companies grew up in a high-gas-price environment,'' Mr. Casesa said. ''They simply have more experience with products that are right for these times. One can only think that Detroit never believed that gas prices would go up.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Fields, head of Ford's Americas division, speaking yesterday. (Photo by Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MARKET SHARE (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (77%); SEDANS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%) Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; Lincoln Division of Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp; Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp; Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (58%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



193 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Microloans May Work, but There Is Dispute in India Over Who Will Make Them

BYLINE: By Tyler Cowen. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University. He is co-author of a blog at www.marginalrevolution.com. He can be reached at tcowen@gmu.edu.

 BODY:
MICROFINANCE is based on a simple idea: banks, finance companies, and charities lend small sums -- often no more than a few hundred dollars -- to poor third world entrepreneurs. The loan recipients open businesses like tailoring shops or small grocery stores, thereby bolstering local economies. 
 But does microfinance, in fact, help the poor? 
To help answer this question, I visited Hyderabad, India, in June. The Poverty Action Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, run by Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo, economics professors at M.I.T., and Sendhil Mullainathan, an economics professor at Harvard, has begun a study of microfinance in Hyderabad. The lab is monitoring thousands of borrowers from Spandana, one of the largest microlenders in India. At the end of a two-year trial period, the study will compare microfinance recipients to peers without comparable opportunities. The lab looks for the real-world equivalent of controlled experiments to study which programs actually alleviate poverty; this work is one of the hottest trends in the economics profession today. 
 My visit suggested that microfinance is working, but it is often more corporate, more commercial and under more attack than I had expected. 
 Microfinance is not actually ''micro'' in scale. It is far more organized than the individual moneylenders in poor communities, the traditional source of finance. Spandana borrows from banks, has about 2,000 employees and deals with about 800,000 loan recipients. The resulting economies of scale make possible lower interest rates. Spandana has been lending at interest rates of 10 to 15 percent a year, while other Indian microlenders may have rates ranging up to about 30 percent a year. Traditional moneylenders receive 5 or 10 percent a month or more. It is no wonder that Spandana has grown.
 Spandana seeks to earn a profit through higher repayment rates. Unlike the moneylenders, Spandana lends to small groups of 5 to 10 people rather than to individuals; each member is liable if other group borrowers do not repay. The carrot is that good borrowers become eligible to receive higher sums. 
 Contrary to some exaggerated claims made on its behalf, microfinance does not generally allow women to establish financial independence from their husbands. Women are the ones who show up to borrow and repay the money. But I polled three groups of Spandana borrowers and found that usually the money went to a business of the husband, not the wife. 
 Spandana insists on payments every week, if only to ensure that the borrowing family is fiscally responsible. But microlending does not always feed into a new business. No matter how the loan is described on paper, many families use the money to finance the purchase of a new motorbike or pay the family doctor. These loans will increase as more Indians come within reach of modern consumer society; Spandana realizes that such uses are no less important than creating businesses. In some cases, microfinance allows people to refinance loans with private moneylenders and thus go deeper into debt. But more often I heard stories of how Spandana let Indian families break free from the expensive private lenders. 
 Near Hyderabad, in the state of Andhra Pradesh, political opposition to microfinance has begun. State officials have fed negative stories to the media. They charge that microfinance debts have driven some people to ruin or perhaps suicide. They call Spandana's programs ''coercive'' and ''barbaric.'' They question whether the ''community pressure'' behind repayment is sometimes too severe. 
 The motives behind this campaign are twofold. The state is not a neutral umpire but rather has its own ''self-help group'' banking model, which lends at the micro level. Spandana and some of the other private microfinance groups are unwelcome competition. More generally, opposition to money lending has been frequent in the history of both India and the West. Not every loan will have a positive outcome, and it is easy to focus on the victims. Not all Indians have accepted the future of their country as an open commercial society with winners and losers. 
 The government has abruptly shut down the branch offices of some microlenders, including Spandana, without respect for due process. There is talk of legally capping microfinance interest rates at levels -- 10 to 15 percent a year -- that would put many microlenders out of business. Such regulations would drive the poor back to the far more expensive private moneylenders and also to the state government.
 Some microlenders have responded by raising their interest rates to reflect the new political risks. Spandana has moved in the opposite direction and is now issuing many loans at the much lower rate of 7.5 percent a year. This may forestall political attacks, but can the company make money in this new environment? The real problem with microfinance is suddenly clear: the lenders are now large enough and public enough that they become political targets. 
 The Indian political authorities must decide whether they will allow new businesses to spread, even when commercialization leads to some disappointments or competes with a state interest. The stipulation that no one can be harmed by progress is a sure recipe for stagnation. 
 Despite these troubles, Padmaja Reddy, the founder and chief executive of Spandana, says she believes her business will grow. I asked Ms. Reddy if she was afraid of having her loans scrutinized by outside academics. She said she expected Spandana programs to pass the test, but she also did not expect every good result of microlending to appear in the numbers. Sometimes access to credit simply gives families a stronger sense of security. For Ms. Reddy, the final proof of the effectiveness of her programs is that ''the women keep returning, three, four times in a row.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (94%); FAMILY (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TRENDS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Women; Credit; Families and Family Life; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%) Spandana (Co)

PERSON: Tyler Cowen

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (88%) India; Hyderabad (India); India

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



194 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Would You Like A Gas Guzzler With That?

BYLINE: By Melanie Warner

 BODY:
WHEN General Motors introduced the three-ton, 11-miles-to-the-gallon Hummer H2 four years ago, it redefined American extravagance. But now, with gas prices hovering at $3 a gallon and threatening to go higher, sales of Hummers are declining as Americans become increasingly conscious of gas mileage. 
 McDonald's, however, appears not to have gotten the message. This week, the restaurant chain started putting toy Hummers in children's Happy Meal boxes, calling it the ''Hummer of a Summer'' promotion. Television and radio ads, which started running this week, feature a family riding in a Hummer on the way to a McDonald's. 
With enough visits to McDonald's, children will be able to collect eight different Hummers in a variety of colors, including two versions of the H1, the original and most monstrous member of the Hummer family, which General Motors stopped making in June. 
 The promotion runs until the end of August and is aimed at young boys. Girls can choose to get Polly Pocket fashion dolls in their Happy Meals instead. 
 Not surprisingly, environmental groups are appalled. Brendan Bell, an energy policy analyst at the Sierra Club, says that Hummers in Happy Meals are about as responsible as ''dipping a Big Mac in the fry oil and serving it to your kids.''
 Mr. Bell says that McDonald's is trying to make Hummers look cool, but that the vehicles are anything but. ''The technology is passe,'' he said. ''For the H1 and H2, they're running it off an engine that hasn't been fundamentally redesigned since the 1950's. What the next generation needs is better technology in our vehicles so that we can cut our dependence on oil and curb global warming.''
 In a written statement, Bill Lamar, McDonald's chief marketing officer, said the promotion was intended to bring ''the fun and excitement of Hummer vehicles'' to ''McDonald's youngest guests.'' The company did not make anyone available for an interview.
 General Motors says the H2 and H3 benefit from a ''host of advanced technologies'' and that the H2's Vortec ''is one of the most efficient engines in production today.''
 Jeff Davis, president of Sandelman & Associates, a restaurant industry research firm, said that since McDonald's long-term partnership with Disney ended last year, the chain had faced a challenge in finding toys for its Happy Meals. ''They're in a tough position and certainly the toy truck is going to be a popular thing among kids,'' Mr. Davis said.
 Charlie Miller, a spokesman for Environmental Defense, said he thought that McDonald's might be trying to help an ailing General Motors win some future customers. Sales of the H2, which currently costs about $96 to fill up at the pump, are down 34 percent for the first seven months of this year versus the same period in 2005, and General Motors has sold only 229 H1's this year, according to Autodata, an auto industry statistics firm in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. 
 ''Anything that sends a message to kids that these are the cool vehicles to buy is the wrong message,'' Mr. Miller said. 
 Consumers have turned away not just from Hummers, but also from other large, gas-hungry vehicles. ''People used to never ask about fuel economy numbers,'' said Jesse Toprak, an analyst at the car-buying site Edmunds.com. ''Now, it's one the primary factors for many people in making car purchase decisions.'' 
 Twenty-eight percent of sport utility vehicle owners surveyed in October 2005 by AutoPacific Research, a California consulting firm, said they would shift to a different kind of vehicle for their next purchase.
 Some policy analysts say there are reasons other than environmental ones that McDonald's should not be promoting Hummers. Anne Korin, co-director of the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, a policy research group based in Washington, said that large, inefficient vehicles were unpatriotic and detrimental to America's national security. 
 With toy Hummers, McDonald's is ''sending a message to children that utter waste of this precious resource that is causing us such national security problems is O.K.,'' she said. 
 McDonald's decision to include Hummers in its Happy Meals is surprising given that the fast-food chain has strived in recent years to bolster its image as an environmentally aware company. It has also promoted healthier menu choices and has avoided introducing indulgent 1,000-calorie-plus items, as some of its rivals have done. The company has also earned praise for its work with animal rights advocates.


GRAPHIC: Photo: McDonald's is putting toy Hummers in its Happy Meals for children. (Photo by McDonald's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); RADIO ADVERTISING (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); EXECUTIVES (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) Restaurants; Advertising and Marketing; Children and Youth; Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Restaurants; Fuel Efficiency ; Fast Food Industry; Toys

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (55%) Mcdonald's Corp; Hummer Division of General Motors Corp; General Motors Corp

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%)

PERSON: Melanie Warner; Bill Lamar

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



195 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Paulson Reinforces His Reach

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 9 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has spent his first weeks in office seeking to assert control within the administration over international economic issues, focusing in particular on developing a new plan to confront China's growing economic clout, administration officials say.
 With the encouragement of the White House, Mr. Paulson has been considering steps, including the establishment of an interagency working group on international economic issues led by the Treasury Department, to fulfill President Bush's pledge to make him the administration's chief economic policy maker.
Mr. Paulson has conferred daily with the chief White House economic policy maker, Al Hubbard, and has been meeting with various Cabinet members to put his plans in motion, the officials said.
 Hoping to put his stamp on one of the most pressing issues he faces, Mr. Paulson plans a new drive to press Beijing to open its financial systems, stimulate consumer demand and let the value of its currency rise to reduce exports. 
 ''Paulson has an interest in trying to pull together the administration's economic policies on China,'' said an adviser to the Treasury secretary, who discussed the internal matters on condition he not be identified. ''On the currency issue, the stars may be aligned for some movement by the Chinese, but the Chinese are also going to be very careful.''
 Mr. Paulson plans to visit China in September to meet with officials there. In 32 years at Goldman Sachs, he traveled to China dozens of times and developed close ties to President Hu Jintao and many other leaders.
 The Treasury chief is also under pressure from Congressional leaders to achieve a quick success on China in the economic sphere at a time when the United States has had trouble securing Chinese cooperation on its military buildup and on political issues relating to Iran, North Korea and Sudan.
 Three months before the elections this fall, the trade and economic issues are considered especially sensitive for the administration. The United States' overall current-account deficit of $800 billion last year is widely viewed on Capitol Hill as a threat to American solvency and jobs. 
 Fears in Congress are focused specifically on the risk that China might suddenly seek to reduce its holding of more than $300 billion in United States government debt, or 8 percent of the total that is publicly held. Congressional leaders also accuse China of laxity on fighting the counterfeiting of intellectual property.
 Pressure on the administration was renewed last month when Senators Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican, and Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat, declared that if China did not revalue its currency by Sept. 30, they would reintroduce legislation to raise tariffs on Chinese imports.
 ''Managing the economic relationship with China has become the most high-profile task of the Treasury secretary,'' said Brad Setser, research director at Roubini Global Economics Service. ''Politically, he needs something to demonstrate his leadership, and getting the Chinese to move on currency would be a great achievement.''
 For three years, the Bush administration, led by former Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, had only limited success prodding China to deregulate, open its economy, crack down on counterfeiting and move toward greater ''flexibility'' in its currency. 
 While prospects for change have improved, it is not clear whether the Chinese will be any more responsive in the future than they have been in the past. The Chinese currency has been trading at close to 8 yuan to the dollar. Many economists say that because of daily interventions by China in international markets, it is undervalued by as much as 30 percent.
 Over time, a rising yuan would help shrink the trade deficit by making Chinese exports more expensive and imports cheaper for Chinese consumers.
 Though some economists say China could easily revalue its currency by changing its pattern of market interventions, Washington never asks for such a revaluation. Instead, the policy is for China to move toward ''flexibility'' in its exchange rate, meaning that the United States wants Beijing to allow the value of the yuan to be more responsive to market forces.
 ''You can't ask them to revalue outright,'' said John B. Taylor, a professor of economics at Stanford and until last year the under secretary of Treasury for international affairs. ''You have to ask them to be more flexible.''
 The Treasury Department is also making a push for the International Monetary Fund to play a more aggressive role in monitoring possible manipulation of currency values by various countries. Many economists argue that Mr. Paulson cannot succeed in changing the currency rate unless he makes the case that it is in China's interest to do so.
 China's economic growth, recently measured at 11 percent, is widely seen as overheated and overly driven by exports. With a current-account surplus that is equivalent to 7 percent of its economy, China faces dangers of inflation and of an abrupt, destabilizing slowdown.
 Both President Hu and the Chinese prime minister, Wen Jiabao, have commented recently that the economy is overheated, adding that something must be done. Many experts say Mr. Paulson will be seizing on those comments to make his case for changes in currency policy.
 But Chinese leaders also fear an slowdown resulting from a loss of exports, which would generate unemployment and possible unrest.
 Kenneth S. Rogoff, professor of public policy and economics at Harvard, said he detected a subtle shift in Chinese thinking recently. Other economists, noting the shift, say that Mr. Paulson should now take advantage of it and may do so soon.
 ''For a long time the Chinese have been telling us that if they appreciate their currency, it would entail a big economic risk -- and how do we know it will help?'' Mr. Rogoff said. ''Now the economy is so overheated, the Chinese are saying that they know currency appreciation might not work, but they might as well give it a try.''
 C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, and an advocate of Chinese action on its currency, said Mr. Paulson should take a leaf from past Treasury secretaries who acted abruptly in the summer to change currency rates when faced with huge trade deficits and protectionist demands in Congress.
 In 1971, Mr. Bergsten said, President Nixon's Treasury chief, John B. Connally, took the dollar off the gold standard and slapped on import surcharges to force a devalued dollar. In 1985, Treasury Secretary James A. Baker initiated a move that ended up driving the dollar down 30 percent against other major currencies in an accord hammered out over an August weekend at the Plaza Hotel in New York.
 Aides to Mr. Paulson dismiss the idea of replicating those feats, noting that the world today is much more complex and saying that American officials have succeeded in persuading other countries that the problem of Chinese surpluses has to be solved with global cooperation.
 ''Fortunately, the debate on the dollar has become more sophisticated in the last year,'' said Timothy D. Adams, under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs, who said the trade gap with China was a function of the disparity between low spending and high savings in China versus a low savings rate and high consumer demand in the United States. Whatever happens to currency values, that fundamental disjunction will not change quickly or easily.
 ''People used to have the notion that the U.S. could simply go into its closet, turn some dials and levers and all this will go away,'' he said. ''I think we've disabused people of the notion that that is possible.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. plans a new drive to press Beijing to open its financial systems. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); CURRENCIES (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); COUNTERFEITING (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%) 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); HU JINTAO (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%) Henry M Jr Paulson; George W (Pres) Bush; Al Hubbard; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



196 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: For Housing, A Finger In the Wind

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
He would not go so far as to call it a bubble, but Alan Greenspan, in response to a question in the spring of 2005, acknowledged that there were signs of ''froth'' in the housing market.
 More than a year later, the froth has all but disappeared: sales of homes are falling, for-sale signs are sprouting across the nation's front lawns and price increases have slowed to a crawl. 
No major industry is more sensitive to interest rates than housing.
 When Mr. Greenspan, as chairman of the Federal Reserve, sharply cut short-term interest rates to help the economy recover from the collapse of the technology boom, he added fuel to the national home boom that came afterward. 
 Lately, the Fed has helped dampen it by raising rates 17 consecutive times, a campaign that Mr. Greenspan's successor, Ben S. Bernanke, suspended Tuesday.
 Now, as job growth and the economy slow under the twin burdens of higher borrowing costs and rising energy prices, the housing industry faces a precarious future. 
 Will it fall steeply and suddenly, as Wall Street did after the technology bubble burst? Or is housing, as many in the industry like to point out, different enough -- with its patient sellers and real assets on the ground -- to resist powerful downward drafts?
 ''It won't sound like a stock market crash, because houses don't work like that,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs.
 On one hand, he said, housing is unlike the financial markets because most homeowners hold on to their properties in bear markets. Except for those with powerful reasons to sell, like moving for a new job or going through a divorce, many owners are prepared to wait for the market to improve.
 On the other, Mr. Hatzius expects the correction to be painful anyway, especially along the coasts and in the Southwest, where home prices rose the fastest and the use of exotic mortgages that let people borrow more against their homes was the greatest. 
 As a result, the return of housing prices to more realistic levels ''is going to take a long time,'' predicted Mr. Hatzius, who described himself as being on the ''more alarmist end of the spectrum.''
 That is one reason many economists, Mr. Hatzius included, do not think a housing downturn is likely to push the overall economy into recession. Because of the complexity and diversity of the housing market, which consists of hundreds of local areas with their own peculiar forces at work, it adjusts more slowly than financial markets. The impact of the downturn is expected to be more long-lasting than that of a stock market bust, but also more diffuse. 
 Moreover, home prices and sales are holding up well in many areas; they are still rising in Houston, Atlanta, Dallas and other cities that did not get caught up in the rapidly rising prices earlier this decade.
 At the same time, mortgage rates are still relatively low and look to stay well below rates common in the past. Over the last three decades, the 30-year fixed mortgage carried an average rate of 9.3 percent, nearly 3 percentage points higher than today's rate.
 ''Low long-term interest rates are putting a floor on the housing market,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight, a research firm.
 In its statement announcing that it would keep its benchmark interest rate at 5.25 percent, the Fed noted that the economy was slowing because of a ''gradual cooling of the housing market and the lagged effects of increases in interest rates and energy prices.''
 Earlier this decade, housing led the American economy out of a short-lived recession and the jobless recovery that followed. More recently, rising home values have helped feed consumer spending by permitting Americans to refinance mortgages and take out home equity lines of credit.
 But such borrowing has slowed markedly as mortgage rates have risen; the national average 30-year fixed mortgage rate rose to 6.63 percent last week, from 5.81 percent at the end of 2004, according to Freddie Mac.
 Goldman Sachs estimates that housing contributed one percentage point to economic growth each year from 2003 to 2005, and it will subtract an equal or slightly greater amount in the coming year.
 Investment in homes and condominiums fell at an annual rate of 6.3 percent in the second quarter, its third consecutive decline, and housing industry officials expect another big drop in the third quarter. Cancellations of new home orders are running at more than a third of sales for some home builders.
 While the Fed still says housing is slowing at a moderate and orderly pace, David Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders, said new information suggested that the market could get worse before it gets better.
 ''Big building companies,'' Mr. Seiders said, ''are telling me their activity is still deteriorating, and a lot of that is sales cancellations.''
 Toll Brothers, the country's largest luxury-home builder, said yesterday that orders for homes fell 45 percent in its fiscal third quarter and that its contract backlog was down 13 percent. The company's stock fell 6.4 percent yesterday. The Bloomberg United States Home Building Index, which tracks 20 publicly traded stocks, is down 30 percent for the year.
 Though home prices officially remain higher than a year ago at the national level, they have started falling in some second-home and vacation markets. And the official figures may mask what is effectively discounting, as home builders offer extras to induce sales or home sellers agree to pay closing costs for buyers. 
 Indeed, while housing officials frequently point out that home prices have never fallen nationally, economists are quick to note that, adjusted for inflation, prices have fallen, nationally and in major regional markets, sometimes for years at a time. 
 In Southern California, for example, real home prices fell significantly in the early 1970's, after the Vietnam War boom ended, and the early 1990's, after the cold war ended and military spending was scaled back. The declines lasted for years.
 The Chicago Mercantile Exchange and a company run by Robert J. Shiller, a Yale University economist, operate a futures market for home prices in 10 big American cities. While trading is light, investors are betting that home prices in all 10 cities will be lower in May 2007 than a year earlier; the expected declines range from 3 percent in Denver to 7 percent in San Francisco.
 ''What the market does is it waits for inflation to catch up,'' said Edward Leamer, an economist at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''And that can be a long wait.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A roadside in Encinitas, Calif., illustrates some of the fallout from a slowdown in housing prices. (Photo by Denis Poroy/Associated Press)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); RECESSION (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%) 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group; Toll Brothers Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); BEN BERNANKE (58%) Jan Hatzius; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (50%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



197 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; HOSTILITIES IN THE MIDEAST: MIDEAST CONFLICT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1946 words

HEADLINE: ISRAEL, SEEKING ROCKET BUFFER, SETS EXPANSION 

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Jad Mouawad contributed reporting from Beirut for this article, Greg Myre from Haifa, Israel, and Warren Hoge from the United Nations.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Aug. 9 

 BODY:
Israel decided Wednesday to move thousands more troops into Lebanon in a major expansion of its ground operation aimed at pushing Hezbollah and its rocket launchers farther away from Israeli cities.
 The decision, made at a six-hour security cabinet meeting, approved a plan drawn up by the military and Defense Minister Amir Peretz to move farther and faster into Lebanon.
 Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Mr. Peretz will decide when the new operation begins, and they are expected to wait a bit so a diplomatic solution, currently being negotiated at the United Nations, can be found.
 But they are not expected to wait very long, said a senior cabinet minister who was in the meeting. ''The army is in full motion,'' he said. 
 He said the decision on the new offensive was intended in part to press diplomats to move faster to establish a robust international force to monitor the border and help the Lebanese government exercise full control over the country.
 The decision is also meant to push Prime Minister Fouad Siniora of Lebanon to accept such a force, despite the objections of Hezbollah, to deploy in southern Lebanon alongside the weak Lebanese Army, said the Israeli cabinet minister said, who spoke on the condition that he not be named because he was not authorized to speak about secret proceedings. ''We have to stop the launchers,'' the minister added. ''That was the message to the army.''
 Giora Eiland, a former national security adviser, said the expansion of the offensive was aimed at achieving goals that had so far proved elusive. ''We have to move forward to where the launchers are,'' he said. ''The Israeli military operation so far is not effective. We're not doing the important things we need to do.''
 Late Wednesday night, columns of Israeli armor and troops moved into Lebanon toward Al Khiam, north of Kiryat Shmona and Metulla, which have been hit hard by rockets. The Israelis said the new operation was intended to cut rocket launchings but remained within four miles of the border.
 The United States urged Israel ''to take the utmost care in avoiding civilian casualties,'' the State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack, said.
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice spoke to Mr. Olmert for half an hour in a break during the meeting, but no details were released about their conversation. C. David Welch, an assistant secretary of state, has been shuttling between Beirut and Jerusalem to try to work out a deal on a United Nations resolution.
 The White House spokesman, Tony Snow, said Wednesday: ''Our primary goal is to have an end of violence, but an end that will also ensure that there are not conditions for future violence, because we've seen this recur many times in Lebanon. That would mean creating a credible force that would allow the government of Lebanon to seize effective control and authority over southern Lebanon, and also would not lead to a situation where Hezbollah once again could arise as an independent militia, a state within a state, and to work while independent of the government, and also to destabilize Lebanon.''
 He went on to say, ''We want an end to violence and we do not want escalations.'' Asked whether that was a message to Israel, he said, ''It's a message to all parties.''
 Hezbollah's leader, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, criticized the first draft resolution as unjust and unbalanced in Israel's favor. ''The least we can describe this is as unfair and unjust,'' he said in a televised speech on Wednesday. ''It has given Israel more than it wanted and more than it was looking for.''
 Sheik Nasrallah gave his support to the Lebanese plan to move its army down to the border, which Hezbollah had opposed until this war, saying it made a new international force unnecessary. Hezbollah is viewed by Israelis as supporting the Lebanese deployment as a way of trying to circumvent an aggressive multinational force, because Mr. Nasrallah understands it is no longer possible to oppose both.
 In his speech, Sheik Nasrallah warned Israeli citizens of Arab descent to leave the port city of Haifa, which has been struck intermittently by longer-range rockets provided to Hezbollah by Syria and Iran, and he promised to turn southern Lebanon into a ''graveyard'' for Israeli soldiers.
 At the United Nations, France and the United States struggled to settle differences in the text of a resolution they introduced Saturday to halt the fighting. But they have been revising it to meet objections from Lebanon and the 22 Arab League countries that it did not demand an immediate Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon. 
 France and the United States are divided over what kind of international force should be sent to southern Lebanon, when it should deploy and how soon the Israelis should leave Lebanon. France would like the Israelis to start leaving when a promised contingent of 15,000 Lebanese Army troops arrives. The United States says the Israelis must remain until international troops are in place.
 When the talks suffered a near collapse in midafternoon, a meeting was called of the five permanent members of the Security Council: Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States.
 Speaking after the session on Wednesday evening, John R. Bolton, the American ambassador, described the outstanding issues as ''really difficult.'' But he added, ''My sense is we're getting closer in a way to resolving some of them, but I don't want to underestimate the conceptual and operational difficulties that were trying to overcome.''
 He said the talks would continue Thursday after the delegations had heard back from their capitals, meaning the earliest a vote could be held has now been pushed back to Friday.
 There have been diplomatic discussions about whether Unifil, the existing United Nations force, could be transformed into a more serious peacekeeping force to work alongside the Lebanese Army. Mr. Siniora emerged from a meeting with Mr. Welch to say there had been ''no progress'' toward resolving differences over a cessation of hostilities. ''We are still at the same place,'' he said.
 Mr. Eiland, the former Israeli national security adviser, said what mattered more than any new military offensive was the eventual shape of Lebanon, and whether the government of Mr. Siniora could operate in the interests of all Lebanese or remain a hostage to Hezbollah's decisions.
 ''Expanding the military operation increases the pressure on Lebanon to act,'' Mr. Eiland said. ''But the Lebanese have to act on their own for their own domestic reasons,'' he said, not in response to any Israeli dictates. As for the military offensive, he said, ''We can stop whenever we want.''
 But without a quick diplomatic solution, he said, an expanded military operation to push the majority of the short-range Katyushas beyond the Litani River is the only way to reduce sharply the barrage of rockets hitting Israel.
 More than 170 rockets fell on Israel on Wednesday, the army said, bringing the total since July 12, when this war began, to more than 3,300, and Israel continued to send some of its remaining residents from northern towns south in buses. Hezbollah is believed to have many thousands of Katyushas remaining, with a range of 12 to 15 miles, though some can go 18 miles. The Litani River is roughly 15 miles north of the border.
 While the cabinet debated the expansion of the war, the fighting ground on along the border. Fifteen Israeli soldiers were killed Wednesday, the highest daily Israeli military toll of the conflict, nine of them in a booby-trapped house in Debel. There was fighting around Merj 'Uyun and Bint Jbail, with three Israeli soldiers hurt.
 An Israeli airstrike near the southern Lebanese city of Sidon early on Wednesday killed at least two people, and aid agencies said they were unable to reach tens of thousands of people surrounded by the heavy fighting in southern Lebanon. The World Food Program said it had not received an Israeli agreement to rebuild a bridge across the Litani, one of the last crossings to the port city of Tyre and the rest of the south.
 Israel destroyed the bridge on Monday. Israel has warned all civilians to move north of the Litani, but some are too old, poor or frightened to leave. Israel has also said that any vehicle traveling on roads in the south can be fired upon at any time of the day or night unless it is an aid convoy approved by Israel.
 The United Nations, as well as the Red Cross, said it was unable to move convoys to the villages around Tyre to deliver supplies.
 Israeli ships also fired missiles into the suburbs of southern Beirut, a Hezbollah stronghold, on Wednesday, a mile from where a funeral was taking place for some of the 41 victims of an Israeli airstrike on Monday on a large building in the suburb of Chiyah. Israel said it was trying to hit Hezbollah leaders; workers continued to pull bodies out of the rubble there.
 After a bombing raid in the Bekaa Valley, nine people, including a Hezbollah official, his wife and their five children, were killed when the apartment unit where they lived collapsed.
 Israel also struck Lebanon's largest Palestinian refugee camp, killing two people and wounding five. Lebanese and Palestinian officials told The Associated Press that an Israeli gunship shelled the Ein el-Hilweh camp, but Israel's military said the attack was an airstrike on a house used by Hezbollah guerrillas.
 In Gaza, an Israeli strike on suspected militants in a grove of trees killed three Palestinians, including a child. The army said it had attacked a militant training ground.
 In the Israeli security cabinet meeting, the vote to approve the military's plan was nine in favor and three abstentions, which included Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres and a prominent Labor minister, Ophir Pines-Paz, who argued that diplomatic efforts should first be allowed to run their course. The third abstention was from Eli Yishai, a minister from the religious Shas Party, who said the ground operation should not be widened until there had been more airstrikes on southern Lebanon.
 Afterward, Mr. Yishai said the ground operation could go on for as long as 30 days, but Israeli ministers are hoping there will be a diplomatic resolution before then.
 Finance Minister Abraham Hirchson said that because of the war, military spending could rise by about $500 million, with cuts of about half that made in the budgets of other ministries and the rest made up from a reserve fund. He estimated that the direct cost of the monthlong war to the Israeli economy was about $1.5 billion.
 The Bank of Israel estimated on Aug. 6 that the conflict, depending on its length, would cost the economy about 1 percent of gross domestic product, with the biggest impact on tourism and tax revenues.
 But the real worry during the Israeli cabinet debate, participants said, was the estimated cost in casualties, with the army suggesting that up to another 200 soldiers could die.
 As the ministers debated Wednesday afternoon, at the Ramban Health Care Campus in Haifa, military helicopters came in over the bay, delivering 23 more wounded soldiers from the fighting in southern Lebanon. The figure was one of the highest one-day totals since the fighting began nearly a month ago, said David Ratner, a spokesman for the hospital.
 In the afternoon, one helicopter brought two soldiers with torn and bloodied uniforms. They were immediately placed in ambulances and delivered to the emergency room. Before the helicopter's entire crew could reboard, the helicopter lifted off and hovered over the bay to make way for the next helicopter, which landed only moments later, also carrying two wounded soldiers.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Beirut residents chanted slogans yesterday during a funeral for 41 victims of an Israeli airstrike on Monday on a large building in the suburb of Chiyah. Israeli missiles struck a mile away as the funeral proceeded. (Photos by Sharim Karim/Reuters)
 Near Lebanon, an Israeli paratrooper commander, wounded by shrapnel in fighting with Hezbollah, was helped to an ambulance yesterday. (Photo by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. A13)Map of Israel and Lebanon: Israeli forces could push to the Litani River to end missile attacks. (pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); APPROVALS (72%) 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) Hezbollah; United Nations

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (79%); FOUAD SINIORA (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (59%) Steven Erlanger; Ehud (Prime Min) Olmert; Amir (Min) Peretz; Fouad (Prime Min) Siniora; Hassan (Sheik) Nasrallah

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (74%) ISRAEL (99%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%) Israel; Lebanon; France; Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



198 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Party No. 3

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
There are two major parties on the ballot, but there are three major parties in America. There is the Democratic Party, the Republican Party and the McCain-Lieberman Party.
 All were on display Tuesday night.
 The Democratic Party was represented by its rising force -- Ned Lamont on a victory platform with the net roots exulting before him and Al Sharpton smiling just behind. The Republican Party was represented by its collapsing old guard -- scandal-tainted Tom DeLay trying to get his name removed from the November ballot. And the McCain-Lieberman Party was represented by Joe Lieberman himself, giving a concession speech that explained why polarized primary voters shouldn't be allowed to define the choices in American politics. 
 The McCain-Lieberman Party begins with a rejection of the Sunni-Shiite style of politics itself. It rejects those whose emotional attachment to their party is so all-consuming it becomes a form of tribalism, and who believe the only way to get American voters to respond is through aggression and stridency. 
 The flamers in the established parties tell themselves that their enemies are so vicious they have to be vicious too. They rationalize their behavior by insisting that circumstances have forced them to shelve their integrity for the good of the country. They imagine that once they have achieved victory through pulverizing rhetoric they will return to the moderate and nuanced sensibilities they think they still possess. 
 But the experience of DeLay and the net-root DeLays in the Democratic Party amply demonstrates that means determine ends. Hyper-partisans may have started with subtle beliefs, but their beliefs led them to partisanship and their partisanship led to malice and malice made them extremist, and pretty soon they were no longer the same people. 
 The McCain-Lieberman Party counters with constant reminders that country comes before party, that in politics a little passion energizes but unmarshaled passion corrupts, and that more people want to vote for civility than for venom. 
 On policy grounds, too, the McCain-Lieberman Party is distinct. On foreign policy, it agrees with Tony Blair (who could not win a Democratic primary in the U.S. today): The civilized world faces an arc of Islamic extremism that was not caused by American overreaction, and that will only get stronger if America withdraws. 
 On fiscal policy, the McCain-Lieberman Party sees a Republican Party that will not raise taxes and a Democratic Party that will not cut benefits, and understands that to avoid bankruptcy the country must do both.
 On globalization, the McCain-Lieberman Party believes that free trade reduces poverty but that government must invest in human capital so people can compete. It believes in comprehensive immigration reform. 
 The McCain-Lieberman Party sees Democrats in the grip of teachers' unions and Republicans who let corporations write environmental rules. It sees two parties that depend on the culture war for internal cohesion and that make abortion a litmus test. 
 It sees two traditions immobilized to trench warfare.
 The McCain-Lieberman Party is emerging because the war with Islamic extremism, which opened new fissures and exacerbated old ones, will dominate the next five years as much as it has dominated the last five. It is emerging because of deep trends that are polarizing our politics. It is emerging because social conservatives continue to pull the GOP rightward (look at how Representative Joe Schwarz, a moderate Republican, was defeated by a conservative rival in Michigan). It is emerging because highly educated secular liberals are pulling the Democrats upscale and to the left. (Lamont's voters are rich, and 65 percent call themselves liberals, compared with 30 percent of Democrats nationwide.)
 The history of third parties is that they get absorbed into one of the existing two, and that will probably happen here. John McCain and Hillary Clinton will try to reconcile their centrist approaches with the hostile forces in their own parties. And maybe they will succeed (McCain has a better chance, since the ideologues on the right feel vulnerable while the ideologues on the left, perpetually two years behind the national mood, think the public wants more rage). 
 But amid the hurly-burly of the next few years -- the continuing jihad, Speaker Pelosi, a possible economic slowdown -- the old parties could become even more inflamed. Both could reject McCain-Liebermanism.
 At that point things really get interesting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); POLITICS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RELIGION (73%); SCANDALS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); IMMIGRATION (61%); TEACHER UNIONS (50%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (79%); AL SHARPTON (56%); TONY BLAIR (50%) David Brooks; John S (Sen) Mccain; Joseph I (Sen) Lieberman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



199 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Angry Exchanges in Debate by Two Republican Hopefuls for Senate 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The two Republicans seeking to unseat Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton clashed ferociously last night in a debate that centered far more on questions of marital infidelity, nepotism and other personal attacks than on what either candidate would do if elected. 
 Kathleen Troia McFarland, a former official in the Reagan-era Pentagon, repeatedly hammered John Spencer, a former mayor of Yonkers, for having an extramarital affair with a city employee while he was mayor, having relatives on the city payroll, and raising property taxes. Mr. Spencer fought back, accusing her of distorting his record with ''lies and innuendos and half-truths'' while ignoring her early pledge to run a positive campaign. 
''She's insulted my wife, she's insulted my children, she's insulted my military record, criticized my service in Vietnam,'' Mr. Spencer complained when he was asked about the tenor of the race. ''I do not think that my personal life, or Mrs. McFarland's personal life, or problems that she may be having, are part of the dialogue that the state and the people of New York care about, or the nation.''
 Ms. McFarland responded that the issues her campaign raised were fair game. 
 ''You brought up your wife, and I must tell you that that's not a personal issue,'' she said. ''That's a professional issue. Because when you were mayor of Yonkers, you had an affair with your secretary while you were married to somebody else. You tripled her salary and made her your chief of staff. You were living with her. You doubled your own personal income. You got financial gain from that. And you had two children.'' 
 Their debate, at Pace University in Manhattan, was the latest flashpoint in a primary campaign that has, at times, more closely resembled reality television than a Senate race. 
 At one point, Ms. McFarland turned to Mr. Spencer and said, ''You taxed and spent like Hillary, and you've behaved like Bill.''
 Mr. Spencer retorted: ''That was probably worked on for months by her staff. To say, let's get the sound bite, you know? Let's get the sound bite, let's get the headline. What nonsense.'' 
 He bristled at the onslaught, saying that the woman he had gone on to marry had not been a secretary but ''a career professional with 22 years working for three former mayors and city managers.'' He asked how Ms. McFarland, as a woman, could insult ''another woman's career and her children.'' 
 ''I say to you, Mrs. McFarland: Shame on you,'' he said. ''Shame on you as a mother of children and a woman yourself to talk about my wife and my family like that when we have such a serious campaign. I am at peace with my God and my loved ones.''
 The Democrats exulted. ''This was more like a Tom and Jerry cartoon than a Senate debate,'' said Blake Zeff, a spokesman for the state Democratic Party.
 Between the heated exchanges, a few areas of policy disagreement did emerge. Ms. McFarland expressed her support for abortion rights, while Mr. Spencer said he opposed abortion unless the life -- and not just the health -- of the mother was at stake. 
 Ms. McFarland said she would revive the upstate economy by remaking it as a center of ''renewable energy,'' while Mr. Spencer said his experience as the mayor of a troubled city would help him assist upstate mayors.
 In a round of yes-or-no questions, both candidates agreed that Gov. George E. Pataki, a fellow Republican, had not been an excellent governor, and said he would not be re-elected if he were running this year. Mr. Spencer, noting that he is already the Conservative nominee for governor, said he would not support Ms. McFarland if she wins the Sept. 12 Republican primary. 
 Their race pits two wings of the state's Republican Party, Ms. McFarland representing the more moderate branch and appealing to party elites, and Mr. Spencer running as an unabashed conservative. 
 Ms. McFarland said several times that she had worked in ''the administrations of three Republican presidents'' while Mr. Spencer said she had been a ''Washington bureaucrat 25 years ago.'' 
 After she mentioned working with Henry A. Kissinger and near Donald H. Rumsfeld during the Ford administration, and said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman was ''an old college friend of my husband's,'' Mr. Spencer said there was ''more name-dropping going on here than -- I don't know what.''
 The debate was televised in New York City on NY1 News and on other channels across the state. It was also broadcast on several radio stations.
 The campaign was bitter long before the debate. 
 ''I don't think that anyone expected this to devolve into a cross between 'Dr. Phil' and 'Days of Our Lives,' '' said Nelson Warfield, a Republican strategist working for the state's Conservative Party, which is backing Mr. Spencer.
 The Spencer family was not the only one drawn into the campaign. Ms. McFarland's was, too. New York magazine published a letter she wrote to her parents saying why she had cut off contact with her brother Michael, who was gay and died of an AIDS-related illness. 
 ''Have you ever wondered why I have never had anything to do with Mike and have never let my daughters see him, although we live only 15 minutes away from each other?'' the letter says. ''He has been a lifelong homosexual, most of his relationships brief, fleeting one-night stands.''
 The publication of the letter led Ms. McFarland to announce that she had been physically abused while growing up. 
 But when Ms. McFarland was asked about her family issues at the debate, she declined to respond. 
 Then came the night's one peaceful moment. Mr. Spencer had nothing to say either, except, '' I wish her well, and guess what, at night I'll say a prayer for her.''
 Ms. McFarland said, ''And for that I thank you.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the debate between the Republican candidates for United States Senate from New York, Kathleeen Troia McFarland and John Spencer, incorrectly paraphrased a point that Mr. Spencer made when he said he would not support Ms. McFarland if she won the primary in September. In explaining that decision, he noted that he is already the Conservative Party's nominee for senator; he did not say he is its nominee for governor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kathleen Troia McFarland and John Spencer exchanged charges of infidelity, nepotism and other personal failings in their televised debate. (Pool photo by Angel Chevrestt)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: New York (Magazine)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%) Kathleen Troia Mcfarland; John Spencer; Michael (Byliner) Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (56%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006



200 of 627 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; BLOCKS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Development Agency Is Nearly Finished, but Its Business Isn't

BYLINE: By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
THE Lower Manhattan Development Corporation may be winding up its affairs, but it hasn't finished its business. Who will?
 After three years, the agency has yet to issue commercial design guidelines for the World Trade Center redevelopment, even though four of the future office towers are now being designed.
It has also not yet awarded the $45 million in ''community enhancement'' grants promised by Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in May 2005. 
 That -- and the seemingly uncertain fate of the performing arts center -- may be the greatest concern among downtown leaders, as they contemplate a future without the development corporation. Some fear that the community enhancement pot will be drawn down to pay for any unanticipated costs at the World Trade Center memorial.
 ''The $45 million in community enhancement funds is very important to the community and something the community fought very hard for,'' said Julie Menin, the chairwoman of Community Board 1.
 Asked for an example of a project that could benefit, she named the community center being built at Warren and West Streets as part of a residential project called 200 Chambers Street. The center is to be run by Manhattan Youth, which offers sports and cultural programs to children, mainly from TriBeCa, Battery Park City, the South Street Seaport and the financial district, where the residential population is growing.
 As a matter of fact, Manhattan Youth has already received a $400,000 grant from the development corporation for its cultural programs.
 But Bob Townley, the executive director, did not deny that the community center, scheduled to open next spring, could use a lot more money: $1.85 million, to be precise. Manhattan Youth will receive the raw space as a gift from New York City, he said, but is responsible for building out the interior. It has raised $6.85 million so far.
 ''Lower Manhattan is the only community without a community center,'' Mr. Townley said.
 Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff and Kevin M. Rampe, the chairman of the corporation, said the city would assume responsibility for administering the community enhancement program. And they both said the pot of money would almost surely be safe from other demands.
 ''We obviously have a shared interest in preserving those funds,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''We thought it prudent -- in the context of the memorial agreement -- to make sure we had enough funds to get the memorial built. Our assumption is that we won't have to use the $45 million for that.''
 To deal with unfinished business, Mr. Doctoroff said the city might create a new local development corporation for Lower Manhattan, under municipal control, or a new subsidiary of the city's Economic Development Corporation. Or it might simply handle matters through existing agencies, he said.
 THE Regional Plan Association is frustrated that the community grants seem to be falling through the cracks. ''It's upsetting that the L.M.D.C. wasn't able to distribute the funding while it had the staff, resources and capacity to do so,'' said Petra Todorovich, a senior planner at the association. ''The funding is so core to their mission and the need for funding is so great.''
 On the planning front, Amanda M. Burden, the chairwoman of the City Planning Commission and a director of the development corporation, said the design of the new trade center was moving ahead promisingly and collaboratively, even without formal guidelines, which are still being refined.
 One draft of the guidelines laid out a range of heights for the buildings, from a maximum of 900 feet for the shortest and southernmost tower, where the former Deutsche Bank building stands, to 1,776 feet for the Freedom Tower (Tower 1).
 Silverstein Properties, the developer of the three office buildings along Greenwich Street, has commissioned Foster & Partners of London to design Tower 2, the Richard Rogers Partnership of London to design Tower 3 and Maki & Associates of Tokyo to design Tower 4. Teams from all three firms are working together at 7 World Trade Center.
 ''We're incredibly fortunate that Towers 2, 3 and 4 have three of the greatest architects in the world,'' Ms. Burden said. ''It appears that the principles of the guidelines are being embraced by the architects and overseen very diligently by Silverstein.''
 That includes the notion, central to the original master plan by Studio Daniel Libeskind, that the towers be arranged in an ascending spiral, each taller than the one immediately to its south, as they wrap around the memorial plaza. 
 Although the draft called for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the development corporation to administer the guidelines, Ms. Burden said, ''The city believes strongly that it must be involved in the site's design moving forward.''
 After all, she added: ''The site is located within the five boroughs. And Lower Manhattan is a priority for this administration.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) World Trade Center (NYC); Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: Lower Manhattan Development Corp

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (70%) David W Dunlap; George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

 
