

601 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Whitman's Budget Reflects State's Boom

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 22

 BODY:
With growth in the economy and state revenue outstripping nearly every projection, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman will propose a budget for 2001 that amounts to an across-the-board loosening of the state's fiscal belt, including a record $1.1 billion for transportation and other capital programs, $760 million more in relief for taxpayers and aid to schools and towns, and hundreds of millions more for colleges and needy hospitals, her closest advisers said today.
Spending would rise 8.9 percent, to $21.2 billion, compared with the governor's 2000 budget, the advisers said. And borrowing, a frequent target for Mrs. Whitman's critics, would continue to grow. But even if the New Jersey economy begins to cool slightly, the state's receipts would rise fast enough to provide another huge surplus at year's end, they said: $850 million, or about 4 percent of expenditures. 
 The governor is to unveil the details of her budget on Monday, but her chief counsel, Rick Mroz, and the state treasurer, Roland M. Machold, briefed reporters.
Mr. Mroz stressed that $10 billion, or half the budget, was devoted to aid for school districts and municipalities and to direct property tax relief to taxpayers. "Providing the largest package of property tax relief in our history means that citizens, not the government, get to decide how their hard-earned dollars are spent," he said.
The new spending programs, the advisers said, include a panoply of modest initiatives, like $10 million toward an eventual $200 million fund to help cultural groups raise capital, and the hiring of 640 new state workers -- among them 70 state troopers, and enough guards to open two new juvenile detention wards to alleviate crowding.
Also announced today were a series of changes to New Jersey Best, a program that helps families save for a child's college education. Annual charges would drop to $5 from $15 and the management fee would be cut to 0.5 percent of assets from 1 percent, younger participants would be able to invest more in riskier equities and the maximum scholarships would rise to $1,500 from $500.
One area of higher spending likely to underwhelm the recipients is $30 million for smoking prevention and cessation programs, to be set aside from an expected $471 million from the nationwide settlement of tobacco-industry litigation. An antismoking coalition has pushed for $76 million in such programs, comparable to what Florida spends.
In her speech on Monday, Governor Whitman is expected to detail a $10 billion school construction program that could rely on another $200 million from the tobacco settlement to pay for debt service.
An additional $100 million from the settlement, officials said, would pay for FamilyCare, a new initiative to reduce the number of adults who lack health insurance, estimated at 950,000. With other state money, matching federal funds and payments by workers and employers, that program could reach $206 million and provide coverage for 125,000 of the so-called working poor, who are not covered by Medicaid but cannot afford insurance.
New Jersey's financially troubled hospital industry would get a much-needed $80 million from FamilyCare. But that could pale next to another $549 million in new aid that officials said the state's 81 hospitals could expect next year, from several sources. Hospitals that provide free care to the most indigent patients would get a one-time federal reimbursement of $365 million, and an extra $30 million from the state. Hospitals that lost money from the failure of HIP Health Plan of New Jersey Inc. would receive $54 million from a state bailout package negotiated last week, and the state is expecting that improved documentation by hospitals of their treatment of Medicare patients would produce an increase of $100 million in federal reimbursements.
The governor's advisers also confirmed today that Governor Whitman had agreed to refinance the state's depleted Transportation Trust Fund to pay for $1 billion in road and bridge projects each year, using $750 million in bonds and $250 million in capital appropriations. The deal with legislative leaders would mean an increase of $221 million in spending from the state's general revenues, and an increase of $580 million in borrowing.
Mr. Machold, the treasurer, said the state's economic boom showed every sign of lasting for at least another year. Nonetheless, he said, the state's forecasts constitute a slight ratcheting down of revenue expectations from a year ago: growth in sales tax receipts is predicted to be 7.5 percent in the coming year, down from the 10.5 percent increase that was envisioned in the budget adopted last July.
The surplus originally projected for the current budget year, which ends in June, was $783 million, but it is now expected to top $1.1 billion. That cushion allowed officials writing the 2001 budget to include $326 million more in spending than they expect the state to receive in taxes. Even so, the new budget includes a projected surplus in June 2001 of $850 million. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); FAMILY (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (71%); MATCHING GIFTS (69%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (68%); LITIGATION (67%); CIVIL SERVICES (65%); SMOKING (65%); SMOKING CESSATION (65%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



602 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Official Dims His View of Russia's Future

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22

 BODY:
The Clinton administration's top policy maker on Russia, in his annual assessment of where that country is headed, has presented a more wary review this time, even hinting at the possible return of some Soviet habits.
The policy official, Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott, said in a speech at Oxford University in England on Friday that the war in Chechnya and the transfer of power to Acting President Vladimir V. Putin raised the question of how the resurgence of Russian nationalism would assert itself. 
 One consistent theme about Mr. Putin, among many inconsistencies, Mr. Talbott said, is his desire "to see Russia regain its strength, its sense of national pride and purpose."
"In and of itself, that goal is not only understandable, its achievement is indispensable," Mr. Talbott said. "It all depends on how Russia defines strength, how it defines security. Will it do so in today's terms, or yesterday's -- in terms that are proving successful elsewhere, or in terms that have already proved disastrous for Russia under Soviet rule?"
Mr. Talbott then raised another issue: "Will Russia recognize that in an age of global -- and regional -- interdependence, the porousness of borders is a necessity out of which a viable state must make a virtue? Or will it fall back into the habit of treating this and other facts of life as a vulnerability to be neutralized or -- that most Soviet of all verbs -- to be liquidated?"
He also pondered, but did not give a conclusion on, whether Russia would understand that in Chechnya, "indiscriminate aerial attacks, forced movement of populations and civilian roundups" are the work of a "weak and desperate state, not a strong and clearheaded one."
The speech was more skeptical than an address the deputy secretary gave at Stanford University in 1997. Then, he said that Russia "may have turned the tide -- it may be on the brink of a breakthrough." It was also more downbeat than a second speech he gave at Stanford in 1998, titled The Case for Strategic Patience in a Time of Troubles.
But while Mr. Talbott, who has been criticized in some quarters as a Russophile, chose a sterner tone than he has used in the past, his speech was far less critical of Moscow than an essay in the current issue of The New York Review of Books by Sergei Kovalev, a Russian human rights campaigner who is a member of the Russian Parliament.
Mr. Kovalev predicted that Mr. Putin would build "an authoritarian-police regime that will preserve the formal characteristics of democracy, and will most likely try to carry out reforms leading to a market economy."
"Life will not be sweet for Russia's fledgling civil society," he said.
Mr. Talbott only elliptically dealt with Mr. Putin's embrace of the Communists in the Parliament this week, which resulted in a walkout of pro-democratic factions.
"We can speculate together -- and that's all we can do at this point -- on exactly what he's up to in his recent parliamentary maneuvers," Mr. Talbott said.
Addressing Russia's war against rebels in Chechnya, Mr. Talbott said the military campaign is a "gruesome reminder of how hard it is for Russia to break free of its own past." He blamed the reformist government in Moscow in 1992 and 1993 and the governments after the 1994-96 Chechnya war for leaving Chechnya to its own devices, thus fueling the appetite for total independence in the republic. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



603 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Grandmothers Cite Family Values in Effort to Take Cuban Boy Home

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
There is no Disney World in Cuba. But in Cuba, the grandmothers of Elian Gonzalez say, there are the boy's father and a family that loves him, the familiar streets where he played and the school where his first-grade classmates have kept his chair empty, awaiting his return.
It is the world, the women said, that the 6-year-old boy most needs to recover from the accident that killed his mother last November as they and others tried to make their way to the United States in a boat that capsized and that left Elian clinging to an inner tube at sea for two days before he was rescued. 
 "We're not politicians," Maria Mariela Quintana, 51, Elian's paternal grandmother, said in an interview early Saturday morning. "What we want is the well-being of the child."
"If they're human," she said, referring to the relatives in Miami who are blocking Elian's return to Cuba, "we beg them to think about the child's well-being too."
Mrs. Quintana and Raquel Rodriguez, 51, Elian's maternal grandmother, arrived in New York City on Friday to present a united front against the Florida relatives who have taken care of the boy since the Nov. 25 accident. The relatives, a brother of Elian's paternal grandfather and other members of the father's side of the family, have argued that Elian would have a better life in the United States than in a socialist state. The great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, filed a federal lawsuit Wednesday challenging the Immigration and Naturalization Service's decision Jan. 4 to return the boy to Cuba.
This is the first time anyone from Elian's family in Cuba -- which in addition to his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, includes both sets of grandparents -- has come to the United States to press the father's custody claim. The women flew from Havana in a private plane chartered by the National Council of Churches, an association of 35 Protestant and Eastern Orthodox denominations that favors the reunification of the child with his father.
The women flew to Washington on Saturday for a meeting with Attorney General Janet Reno and Doris Meissner, commissioner of the immigration service. The grandmothers were to return to New York, where they are staying in the home of Joan Brown Campbell, the church council's general secretary. They said the purpose of the trip was to enlist the help of American officials to retrieve their grandson.
Ms. Reno and Ms. Meissner said after meeting with the grandmothers that they would seek an early resolution to the matter in federal court.
"We maintain that the law recognizes the unique relationship between parent and child," Ms. Reno and Ms. Meissner said in a statement, "and that family reunification has long been a cornerstone of both American immigration law and I.N.S. practice."
Earlier, speaking in Spanish in Ms. Brown Campbell's living room, the grandmothers made their case forcefully, becoming tearful as they talked about their grandson.
"I don't know why they want the child to stay here after the trauma he's been through," Mrs. Quintana said. "They are not close relatives."
Mrs. Quintana, a secretary for the Ministry of Justice in Cuba, said she brought with her legal papers empowering her to represent her son. She said the father stayed behind fearing he would meet more hostility than the women.
Elian's family dispute has escalated into a political tug-of-war as the government of Fidel Castro and Cuban-American organizations have seized on the case to reiterate their spite for each other in speeches and demonstrations. In the meantime, the grandmothers said they had been counting the days since Nov. 19, when they last saw Elian. After he and his mother, Elizabet Brotons Rodriguez, vanished, a co-worker of the mother told the family she had left for the United States.
"We went crazy," Mrs. Quintana said. "His father punched the walls, screaming and crying.
"They had been married for 13 years," Mrs. Quintana said of Elian's parents, "and she had had seven miscarriages. Both of them were obsessed with Elian. They and us. We have all raised him and spoiled him."
The grandmothers said Elian's mother told no one of the plans, and Ms. Rodriguez insisted her daughter was coerced into the risky journey across the Straits of Florida by the man she had lived with. Her daughter's boyfriend, Ms. Rodriguez said, controlled her to the point that he persuaded her to move out of her parents' home.
For days, the women said, the family was worried sick until they heard news of the accident that killed 11 people (including the boyfriend of Elian's mother) and of the rescue of a boy. They rushed to call relatives in Miami and urged them to take a picture of Elian to the hospital where they had taken the survivor.
But the joy of finding out that Elian had been saved turned to dismay as the great-uncles moved to prevent the child's return. Ms. Rodriguez bristled at assertions in Miami that her daughter would have wanted Elian to stay in the United States.
"None of them knew her," Ms. Rodriguez said. "How can they know what she thought?"
Elian's parents divorced three years ago -- and Mr. Gonzalez remarried and now has another son, who is 4 months old -- but the couple's relationship was close, "like a brother and sister," Mrs. Quintana said. Elian slept at his father's home part of the week, she said.
Both parents had government tourism jobs -- she as a hotel maid, he, still, as a hotel doorman and bartender -- and their access to dollars ensured that the family did not suffer the economic hardship of many others in Cuba, the women said. Asked whether she at any point had debated the decision to press for the boy's return, Mrs. Quintana asked: "Why stay in the United States if all his family is in Cuba? In Cuba he doesn't lack for anything."
The women said they had been unable to reach Elian, who has been taken to Disney World and showered with gifts by his American relatives and others.
After losing her only daughter, Ms. Rodriguez said, she wants to recover her only grandson. She said she was receiving psychiatric treatment in Cuba to cope with the family loss.
"I don't have her but I have him," she said. "But I don't have him."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Raquel Rodriguez, left, and Mariela Quintana, the grandmothers of Elian Gonzalez, came to New York to try to take the boy to his father in Cuba. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FAMILY (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PARENTING (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (71%); LITIGATION (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); RELIGION (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); 

PERSON: MARIA MARIELA QUINTANA (79%); ELIZABET BROTONS RODRIGUEZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



604 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore Seeks to Link Bradley to the Reagan Era

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: CEDAR FALLS, Iowa, Jan. 22

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore sought today to link his Democratic opponent, former Senator Bill Bradley, with what he said was a negative direction that President Ronald Reagan took the country in the 1980's.
Mr. Gore noted that Mr. Bradley has said he wanted to model his leadership style after that of Mr. Reagan, who focused on just a few big issues. Mr. Gore then recounted several matters that he said Mr. Reagan had ignored, allowing a quadrupling of the national debt, a rise in AIDS cases and an increase in unemployment, implying that a Bradley presidency would have the same disastrous consequences. 
 "By contrast, in the last seven and a half years, President Clinton and I have not turned our backs or turned away from any of the major fights that were important to the American people," Mr. Gore declared to 1,000 people at a rally at a campus field house here.
Mr. Gore has premised much of his newfound strength in the Democratic primary on being a fighter, and he has faulted Mr. Bradley for "quitting" the Senate, which he retired from in 1996.
Mr. Gore's portrayal of himself as a fighter, in contrast to Mr. Bradley as a quitter, has become the central theme of his campaign.
He hammered it today in a busy day of bus rides and plane trips across north-central Iowa to rally voters for Monday's Iowa caucuses. He campaigned in Fort Dodge with his wife, Tipper, and was joined here by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.
While casting Mr. Bradley as a man of limited vision, Mr. Gore cast himself as caring about a range of issues and offered voters a veritable grab-bag of priorities.
As Mr. Gore said in Fort Dodge: "My expectations would be not to focus on just one issue but to keep on fighting for all of your interests against every challenge that the American people face, and move our people forward by focusing on health care and education, child care and Medicare, cleaning up the environment and keeping our economy strong. We need to keep our prosperity going, and we need to lift up the working people of the United States of America."
In discussing other topics, Mr. Gore called for more money for research into cancer and diabetes, spoke out against discrimination against gays and railed against striker-replacement laws. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); DISCRIMINATION (70%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (64%); CANCER (50%); DIABETES (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



605 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: 'Senator Hillary' Is Bait in Mayor's Plea for Cash Across U.S.

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Thousands of conservatives across the country have been receiving frequent fund-raising letters in recent months from a newfound pen pal back East. "Does Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton sound good to you?" begins one, and if that scenario does not make the recipients wince and lunge for their checkbooks, another is soon presented.
"Most political observers," the letter warns, "believe that Hillary Clinton is merely using this race as a steppingstone to even higher office." 
 The letters are signed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mrs. Clinton's probable opponent in the New York Senate contest, and they have been very successful at coaxing political contributions. Mr. Giuliani's campaign announced last week that it had collected $12 million in 1999, by far a record for the year before a Senate election.
While Mr. Giuliani is hoping that his accomplishments as mayor will convince voters that he deserves to go to Washington, he is discovering that when it comes to amassing a treasury, an equally formidable asset is Mrs. Clinton, otherwise known in these letters as "leader of the ultra left-wing Democrats," "darling of the left-wing elite" and "champion of every left-wing cause you can imagine." Not to mention purveyor of "radical schemes for the future."
Some conservative groups began using Mrs. Clinton's probable candidacy as a direct-mail fund-raising vehicle nearly a year ago, but the Giuliani campaign started only last June, and the strategy promptly proved to be a bonanza. The mayor's advisers say 40 percent of the donations collected by the campaign originate from direct mail, while the rest come through fund-raising events.
The advisers decline to say what percentage of the direct-mail donations are from outside of New York, but they acknowledge that it is significant. So even as Mr. Giuliani tars Mrs. Clinton as a carpetbagger with no ties to New York, his own campaign is thriving from out-of-state money.
Mrs. Clinton's advisers describe the language in the letters as outlandish, saying the mayor is collecting political money by pandering to arch-conservatives out of touch with the views of most New Yorkers. The mayor's advisers respond that people support him largely because of his record, and say Mrs. Clinton's supporters have made vitriolic attacks on him that she has not denounced.
Most Senate candidates seek donations through mass mailings. They rarely harvest much money out of state. What it takes is a polarizing figure like Mrs. Clinton or, on the other side, Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who is the bete noire of liberals.
In fact, it is very probable that anyone running against Mrs. Clinton would be flooded with donations from across the nation, political consultants say. When Mr. Giuliani ran for re-election in 1997, he did little, if any, direct-mail fund-raising. About 85 percent of the money he took in was donated by New Yorkers.
Seeking to learn how to press the right partisan buttons, the Giuliani Senate campaign has retained Richard A. Viguerie, who is considered a mastermind of conservative direct-mail solicitations and has turned demonizing the Clintons into a standard appeal.
Mr. Viguerie, who helped draft the Giuliani fund-raising letters, has worked for Senator Helms, Patrick J. Buchanan and others with far more conservative views on abortion and other social issues than the mayor.
Mr. Viguerie spearheaded the direct-mail operation in 1994 for Oliver L. North, the Iran-contra figure who set a record for fund-raising in a Senate race by a nonincumbent. Mr. North, a Virginia Republican, collected $21 million in his losing bid to unseat Senator Charles Robb. It is likely that Mr. Giuliani and Mrs. Clinton will each collect more, in what could be the most expensive Senate race ever.
The Giuliani campaign has also bought lists of potential contributors from a company that offers "Anti-Clinton Republican Revolutionaries," "Dole Supporters" and "Capitalist Contributors."
New Yorkers will generally not receive these letters. The Giuliani campaign is mounting something of a two-pronged direct-mail effort. In writing to New Yorkers, the campaign is mindful that even Republicans in the state have not been as hostile to President and Mrs. Clinton as their brethren elsewhere.
The New York letters dwell more on the mayor's record on such issues as crime, welfare and the economy and often note his ties to New York. There are fewer references to the "left-wing" ideology of Mrs. Clinton.
"As someone who has lived in New York most of my life and understands the needs and concerns of the people," he writes, "I think I'll have a very powerful advantage as I take my message to the voters."
Mrs. Clinton's campaign, which has raised $8 million, has also undertaken a strenuous direct-mail effort outside of New York, and her celebrity has no doubt helped her to raise far more than a first-time candidate would otherwise be expected to collect. But because Mr. Giuliani does not evoke such passionate feelings outside New York, the Clinton campaign has not tried to construct its appeals around the mayor.
The Clinton campaign's appeals generally do not refer to Mr. Giuliani, instead denouncing attacks by unnamed opponents. "They can launch an anti-Hillary Web site," she wrote in a recent letter. "They can use their limitless war chests to run negative television ads. They can publish mean-spirited books and press releases. But they can never stop me for standing up for what I believe in."
Mrs. Clinton's advisers said they had expected that Mr. Giuliani would try to capitalize on antipathy toward Mrs. Clinton nationally, conceding that among some conservatives, she was even more unpopular than her husband. But, they said, they were taken aback by the language in some of the letters sent by the Giuliani campaign.
"These fund-raising letters are filled with vicious attacks against Hillary," said Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for the Clinton campaign. "They sound like they were written by Jesse Helms or Rush Limbaugh. It's clear that the mayor is working very hard to cozy up to the far right."
Bruce J. Teitelbaum, the mayor's campaign manager and an architect of his direct-mail strategy, said such criticism was hypocritical. He said some of Mrs. Clinton's supporters had publicly insulted Mr. Giuliani, without any protests from her.
"Gimme a break," Mr. Teitelbaum said. "For the past six months, Mrs. Clinton's surrogates have been bashing the mayor in the most pejorative terms -- that includes James Carville, who referred to the mayor's supporters as goons and thugs."
Mr. Teitelbaum disputed comments from Mrs. Clinton's advisers that the mayor was tapping into a "network of right-wing donors."
"When are they going to stop claiming everything is a result of a vast right-wing conspiracy?" Mr. Teitelbaum said.
Political consultants marveled at the response to the mailings. Most campaigns lose money on their first round of letters because the donations -- from generally 1 or 2 percent of recipients -- total less than the costs of the lists and other items.
But the campaigns often make money on subsequent mailings because they focus on those who gave in the first round.
But Mr. Giuliani's campaign began earning money on its first round of mailings, officials said. By the end of 1999, it had accumulated a list of 90,000 donors, most of whom could be expected to donate more.
"The ideal situation is running against a polarizing candidate who is known nationally," said Kieran Mahoney, a Republican consultant not involved in the Senate race. "Suddenly, instead of being able to raise money in the district or state, your universe is anybody who is alive. In all likelihood, Giuliani has only scratched the surface." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK SENATE (83%); MOST SENATE (74%); GIULIANI SENATE (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK SENATE (83%); MOST SENATE (74%); GIULIANI SENATE (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



606 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE CANDIDATE;
Bradley's Long Day Ends on a High Note

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa, Jan. 22

 BODY:
After more than a week of strategic setbacks, sinking poll numbers and negative news coverage, former Senator Bill Bradley received a welcome lift tonight when he picked up the endorsement of Iowa's largest newspaper on the eve of this state's caucuses, the first event of the presidential primary season.
In an editorial that appears on Sunday, The Des Moines Register describes Mr. Bradley as a visionary leader "whose ideas and approach to governing most closely match the needs" of the rapidly changing times. "There is a fundamental decency about him that would bode well for healing the festering partisan wounds that have produced virtual stalemate in our national government," the editorial continues. 
 The editorial notes that choosing between Mr. Bradley and his lone rival for the Democratic nomination, Vice President Al Gore, was difficult, describing Mr. Gore as a "sharp" and "exceptionally" well-prepared candidate.
For Mr. Bradley, the endorsement could not have arrived sooner. In recent days, new polls have shown him falling further behind Mr. Gore, he disclosed that he had suffered four bouts of irregular heartbeats since late December and his honorary campaign chairman in Iowa died.
The announcement came at the end of a long day of campaigning through eastern Iowa where Mr. Bradley hammered at his pledge to spread prosperity to people who have not benefited from the nation's roaring economy.
"It's about time all of us got on this prosperity train," Mr. Bradley told 150 people at a school in Maquoketa, arguing that "the politics of plenty" made it possible for government to do more to help low-income people.
Though he tried to avoid mentioning Mr. Gore by name, Mr. Bradley repeatedly drew implicit contrasts with the vice president, suggesting that he would be a more confident, visionary leader than Mr. Gore. Throughout the campaign, Mr. Bradley has asserted that his proposals to restrict gun ownership, expand health care and reduce poverty were more sweeping than Mr. Gore's.
"I look out there and I say, 'What's at stake here in this election?' " Mr. Bradley said. "It's whether we're going to do something big or whether we're going to nibble around the edges. If you want to nibble around the edges, I'm not your guy."
In the afternoon, Gov. Tom Vilsack, a popular first-term Democrat, appeared with Mr. Bradley before a boisterous crowd of 300 people at an event promoting campaign finance reform in Dubuque. Mr. Vilsack is officially neutral in the race, but his wife and many of his aides have endorsed Mr. Gore.
Earlier in the day during a news conference, Mr. Bradley was asked if he thought his campaign had missed opportunities in Iowa, where he has matched the vice president in spending but trails him badly in polls. Mr. Bradley said no.
"I know I will leave here with the knowledge that we have run a strong campaign," he said. "I was never somebody who after a game would wake up in the middle of the night wondering what could have happened."
In Clinton and Maquoketa, Mr. Bradley received warmed greetings from crowds of 100 to 200 people, but the audiences were swollen by scores of volunteers from other states who cannot vote here, including a group of about 40 students from Wheaton College in Illinois who were helping the Bradley campaign in Iowa as part of political science project.
In recent days, some of Mr. Bradley's own supporters have been critical of his campaign. On Friday in Davenport, for instance, Bill Gluba, a volunteer for Mr. Bradley, complained that the campaign had spent too much money on commercials in Iowa -- $1.5 million -- and not enough on get-out-the-vote operations. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (96%); 

CITY: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DES MOINES REGISTER (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IOWA, USA (96%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); POOR POPULATION (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); FIREARMS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (79%); TOM VILSACK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



607 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2747 words

HEADLINE: Going Public Amid Sharks;
Insurers Look at Stocks As a Means of Survival

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
FOR the insurance companies of America, the sluggish cash cows of the financial world, the new century is dawning with a jarring Darwinian message: Either buy up your rivals or risk being swallowed yourself.
Now that Congress has done away with Depression-era barriers that fenced off banking, insurance and securities underwriting as separate businesses, almost everyone in the field, from giant American banks and brokerage houses to the financial powers of Europe, is looking for merger partners or takeover targets in a scramble to get bigger, chasing the dream of greater market share and, through economies of scale, greater profits. 
 Any combination now seems possible. But the insurance companies, with their huge stores of investable cash reserves, battalions of agents and flocks of customers, are seen as the choicest prizes. Because of their lumbering performance and relatively small size, they are particularly vulnerable.
"It is getting down to the eaters and the eatees," said David F. D'Alessandro, president and chief operations officer of the John Hancock Mutual Insurance Company in Boston. "I go to industry meetings and I see everyone eyeing everyone else, thinking, 'What would it be like to work for that guy? Would I want him working for me?' "
Like several of its biggest rivals, John Hancock is racing to throw off a crucial handicap: its mutual structure. On Thursday, Hancock will go public, converting from a company owned by policyholders to one owned by its stockholders. A few weeks later, Metropolitan Life plans to go public, and Prudential is also working on a conversion expected for later this year or early in 2001.
The executives who run these giant mutual insurers see conversion to stock ownership as crucial for their continued survival.
Without stock to use in mergers and takeovers, or options to attract and reward vital executives, companies with a mutual structure are seen as increasingly powerless to compete in a new financial services arena without boundaries.
But the offerings are not likely to excite investors the way initial public offerings usually do. Even with John Hancock's vaunted brand name, the company's shares are expected to open near book value and languish there, and Met Life can expect a similar reception.
Even so, once the offering is complete, Mr. D'Alessandro, who will become chief executive of John Hancock in June, is expected to dive into the thick of the buying as he tries to bulk up his company as a defense against takeover from the banks and other bigger, richer players.
Analysts say Metropolitan Life will be forced into the same sort of defensive strategy, gobbling up whatever companies it can to increase earnings and keep the other big fish from getting their jaws around it.
In such a headlong race for size, deals are being contemplated that may not be perfect fits and may not even follow good economic logic, at least for the companies: Naturally, creating megacorporations means more money and power for the people making the moves.
Evidence is still lacking that what America wants most is one-stop shopping on financial matters, the rationale behind many suggested bank-insurer and broker-insurer combinations. Most past efforts to construct financial services "supermarkets," notably by American Express and by Sears, Roebuck, did not last long.
BUT one company seems to be pulling it off, attracting would-be emulators from all points of the compass: the melding of banking, insurance and brokerage services under the banner of Citigroup. The creation of Citigroup has made its co-chief executive and one of its principal architects, Sanford I. Weill, the toast of the town.
"Everybody looks at Sandy Weill and goes, 'I want to be him,' " said Alice Schroeder, an analyst at PaineWebber Inc., "Frankly," she said, "being the C.E.O. of a great big huge company is more important than being the C.E.O. of a smaller company. And you get paid more. You might even get your picture on a magazine cover."
The wholesale consolidation of insurance and other financial businesses will be much less fun for those on lower rungs of the ladder. For one thing, thousands of jobs will be destroyed. Indeed, a driving force in taking over an insurance company is the buyer's conviction that it can be operated more efficiently. The idea is to run the back offices of both companies with roughly the staff of one, while piling on more sales people, more customers and more investment capital.
If the track record of banking mergers is any guide, another consequence of consolidation will be deterioration in customer service, as ever more dealings with the public are shunted to automated systems. Though a case can be made that heightened competition among giants in banking or securities brokerage has led to lower prices for some customers, insurance rates could instead be driven up, as mutual insurers, created and managed specifically to provide low-cost insurance, are converted into shareholder-owned businesses with profit as their main objective.
Any "surplus" generated by a mutual company was supposed to be returned to policyholders as dividends, effectively lowering the net cost of insurance; shareholders will expect profits to be plowed back into continued growth or used to buy back shares instead, while policyholders get just enough insurance benefits to stay ahead of the competition.
Over the next few years, the insurance industry is likely to resemble the oceanic food chain. The nimblest and most aggressive of the small insurers will gobble up slower and smaller rivals. Bigger insurers will probably swallow them, and others nearer their own size. At the top of the chain, huge financial conglomerates like Citigroup, G.E. Capital and the giant banks, brokerage firms and mutual funds are expected to devour many of the biggest insurers.
THE predators who may be eyeing the bigger fish in American insurance most avidly are the giant European insurance and banking companies. The world's two largest insurers, Allianz of Germany and AXA of France, already have substantial holdings in the United States; so do ING Group and Aegon from the Netherlands and Fortis of Belgium.
"The big European companies have made no secret that they plan to move into the United States in a bigger way," said Jeff Sawyer, who is in charge of insurance at Deloitte Consulting in New York. And their market capitalizations are large enough to make swallowing a major American acquisition feasible: investors value Allianz at about $85 billion, and AXA at $45 billion.
The best cross-industry merger fit may be between big retail banks and life insurers. Both are fundamentally in the investment business, and bank branches and insurance agents can readily sell each other's products. (In limited ways some already do.)
And it is easy to see similar advantages in a combination between property and casualty insurers on the one hand and consumer credit companies like mortgage lenders and auto-finance houses on the other.
Some banks, like Wells Fargo, have already expressed interest in owning insurance companies. Others, pointing to a history of insurance companies' tending to be less profitable than banks, say they may be better off with marketing agreements, earning fees from selling insurance but avoiding the heavy lifting of underwriting operations.
That reasoning sounds like a smoke screen to some analysts. "The insurance companies are a great fit for the banks," said Andrew S. Kligerman, an insurance analyst at Schroder & Company, which sold its investment banking and research units to Citigroup just last week. "But why should the banks broadcast their interest? Why not tell people, 'We're not interested,' and continue to see the insurance stocks trade at low multiples and get them cheap? The life companies are sitting ducks."
Two brokerage houses, Merrill Lynch and PaineWebber, already own small insurance companies, as does Fidelity Investments, the big mutual fund company. "Why not leverage that with the expertise and scale of a bigger insurer, and get some real bang out of those operations?" Mr. Kligerman said.
IMAGINING deals in the other direction, with insurers acquiring banks, is harder. As much as some insurance executives might want to get into the banking business, it seems unlikely that they will have the muscle to start out with a flourish by buying a big bank. "Banks have, on average, returns on equity in the high teens and low 20's," said Jon Boscia, chief executive of the Lincoln National Group, a life insurance and annuities company with a stock market value of about $7 billion. "That gives the banks high price-earnings multiples that make it virtually impossible for most insurance companies, with substantially lower price-earnings multiples, to be buyers."
Several insurers are easing into banking by obtaining thrift charters. Among them are State Farm, the big auto and home insurer, and American International Group, the most international of the big American insurers and one of the few with the financial strength to contemplate a bank takeover.
However the merger dance with the banks and brokerage houses plays out, the pace of evolution within the insurance business is only going to quicken. There are simply too many insurance companies, and many have been run too complacently for too long.
Mr. Sawyer sees the cross hairs of the big insurers coming to rest on a "killing zone" in the marketplace: high quality mid-cap insurance companies with market values up to about $10 billion. These are companies that are big enough to be worthwhile acquisitions but are too small to afford heavy spending for computer technology that might catapult their earnings and share prices, or to bulk up rapidly with acquisitions to fend off the barracudas.
One example is Allmerica Financial, a Worcester, Mass., insurer whose market capitalization is now about $2.5 billion. Though it sells homeowners and auto insurance, it is best known for its life and annuity products and its success in selling through financial planning seminars. Another company often mentioned in the same breath is Reliastar Financial of Minneapolis, which specializes in life insurance and annuities, also sold through seminars, and has a stock market value of $2.7 billion.
"These companies would be a good fit and be easily affordable for a Met or a Pru," said Colin Devine, an insurance analyst at Salomon Smith Barney. But a hungry insurer would have to move swiftly: Allmerica or Reliastar would also be just right for a Merrill Lynch or a Wells Fargo, Mr. Devine said.
The American General Corporation, a Texas-based life insurer with a market value of about $14 billion that has itself grown rapidly with a string of recent acquisitions, and two life insurers in the $6 billion to $7 billion range, Jefferson-Pilot and Lincoln National, are also considered likely takeover targets.
Some analysts see Lincoln National as meshing neatly with a brokerage house like Charles Schwab & Company. "Lincoln National is excellent at asset management, estate planning and retirement sales, which is just what Schwab needs as its customers get older," Mr. Devine said. T. Rowe Price, the Baltimore mutual fund company, might be another possible buyer, he said.
But the action will not be limited to the "killing zone." Some of the most famous names in insurance are being sized up for takeover, especially in the auto and homeowners businesses, where higher-than-expected operating expenses have driven down share prices. The stock of one stellar name, Allstate, has been trading at about $24 a share, down from $41 a year ago and just a bit above book value. Two of its rivals, Progressive and Safeco, have also become vulnerable as their share prices have declined to little more than book value.
Metropolitan Life, which has a growing auto and homeowners division, and A.I.G. are regarded as potential buyers of Allstate. Wall Street analysts also speculate that Warren E. Buffett might want to meld Allstate with Geico, his discount auto insurer. But Ms. Schroeder of PaineWebber, who has become a specialist on Mr. Buffett, said she thought Mr. Buffett would prefer to expand in auto insurance by achieving internal growth with Geico.
Hartford Financial Services, which does a big business in auto, homeowners and commercial insurance and is the parent of Hartford Life, the leading seller of variable annuities, turns up on many handicappers' target lists these days; again, Met Life and A.I.G. are mentioned as buyers that would find Hartford a good fit.
THREE mid-sized commercial insurers with substantial capital surpluses -- the Reliance Group, Fremont General and Frontier Insurance Group -- are also trading at depressed prices. And the trend extends to reinsurers, which sell backup coverage to insurance companies. Two Bermuda-based reinsurers, ACE Ltd. and XL Capital, have begun providing insurance that is akin to bonds, and some analysts say they would be a natural acquisition for investment banking houses like Goldman, Sachs & Company, Lehman Brothers or Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. All three firms already have units that put together packages of bonds that function like insurance.
For all their size, industry leaders like John Hancock, Metropolitan and Prudential have as much reason to worry about being acquired as any of their smaller brethren. They are sleeping giants that own some of the best-known brand names in the country but have been sheltered from relentless pressure for profit growth. Policyholders, who see themselves as customers rather than collective owners of their companies, rarely ask for details of a company's performance as long as they are confident the money will be there to pay claims. So the return on equity for these companies has been, by the standards of publicly traded companies, appallingly low, sometimes as little as 3 or 4 percent, one-fifth or one-sixth that posted by healthy banks.
NOW all that will change, as the siren of the bull market beckons all three giants to cast off mutual ownership and its comforts and protections. The big question is whether they will have enough time to execute their acquisition and growth plans before someone makes a move on them.
Aware of the danger of an immediate feeding frenzy, and the sweeping layoffs and economic dislocation that might result, regulators in the home states -- Massachusetts, New York and New Jersey -- of the three big companies have thrown up barriers to takeover for at least two or three years after they go public. Still, "they will be very susceptible to acquisition if they don't come out of the protected period cruising at a higher level of returns," Mr. Sawyer said.
When mutual insurers convert to stock ownership, their accumulated profits must by law be divided among the mutual policyholders, which can feel like a windfall, though technically it was their money all along. The bigger winners are the executives of the companies, who after an initial waiting period can begin paying themselves millions in bonuses through stock options, which did not exist when the companies were mutuals.
The companies argue that mutual ownership, by denying them the ability to issue stock, hamstrings their efforts to make acquisitions, finance investments in new technology and attract and retain top talent, dooming them to wither away on the sidelines while nimbler competitors offer cheaper, better insurance products.
But those sentiments are not unanimous among mutual companies. A few believe they can prosper while sticking to the old structure, whipping themselves into stock company-like efficiency and buying as many other companies as they can with cash. They are betting that the coming turmoil in the insurance business will be repellant to some customers.
"We think that when people see all this instability, they'll wish they could go back to the old days," said Sy Sternberg, chief executive of the New York Life Insurance Company. "And we'll be the old days -- the same policy, the same company with the same name, not a subsidiary of some big American or European conglomerate."
Instability there will certainly be. "Within the next five years," said Mr. Sawyer of Deloitte Consulting, "you are going to see a dramatically smaller number of American insurance companies. I would have a lot of sleepless nights if I were an insurance company executive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 30, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A table last Sunday with an article about possible mergers and takeovers in the insurance industry carried an erroneous label supplied by A. M. Best, the insurance research company, for return-on-equity figures of 9 companies. Those figures were for 1998; the ones for the third quarter of 1999 were not yet available. The companies were American International Group, Axa, Citigroup, Allmerica Financial, Allstate, Hartford Financial Services, Jefferson-Pilot, Lincoln National and Reliastar Financial.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "It is getting down to the eaters and the eatees," David D'Alessandro, president of John Hancock, says of the new financial services landscape. (Jim Bourg for The New York Times)(pg. 13)
 
Drawing (Dimitry Schidlovsky)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "The Ecology of Insurance"
Banks, brokerage firms and insurers are eyeing one another hungrily now that Depression-era barriers to cross ownership have fallen.
 
Chart lists return on equity for the third quarter of 1999 for several financial institutions.
(Sources: A.M. Best; Moody's Investor Service; Bloomberg Financial Markets) (pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Who Sells It"
Insurance companies and their agents already have substantial footholds in the market for investment products, but banks and brokerage firms have made little headway selling insurance.
 
Chart lists several statistics regarding the insurance and investment industries.
(Sources: Cerulli Associates; Limra International)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY INSURANCE (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); MERGERS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); MARKET SHARE (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (67%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (58%); 

PERSON: D'ALESSANDRO, DAVID F; TREASTER, JOSEPH B CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); DAVID F D'ALESSANDRO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



608 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11;Page 9;Column 1;Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey;
Drug-Maker Mergers Shake the Office Market

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
THE worldwide pharmaceutical industry has been in a dizzying dance of mergers and acquisitions, changes that are having direct effects on New Jersey, headquarters for several of the giant drug companies.
The reconfiguration of the space needs has, most real-estate industry analysts and commercial brokers interviewed said, been mostly positive for the New Jersey commercial market. And when the music finally stops, they said, they expect that the industry changes will mean that more office space will be absorbed by the industry than will be vacated by it. 
 Consider these examples. Late last year Aventis, the giant drug maker formed from the marriage of Hoechst Marion Roussel and Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, announced it would put its North American headquarters in two buildings, totaling 620,000 square feet, now being built in Bridgewater, consolidating operations now in Kansas City, Mo., and Collegeville, Pa.
Until the new buildings are ready next year, Aventis Pharmaceuticals has leased a 340,000-square-foot building in Parsippany that had stood empty since it was completed at the end of 1998.
Late last year, Novartis -- formed in 1997 by the merger of Ciba-Geigy's pharmaceutical division and Sandoz Pharmaceutical Corporation -- put up for sale the 1.7-million-square-foot former Ciba-Geigy research and office campus on 88 acres at Morris Avenue and River Road in Summit. Novartis will stay in at least 400,000 square feet in some of the buildings for several years, while it constructs new ones at its East Hanover headquarters.
Other companies are expanding. Late last year Merck built a 322,000-square-foot office building at its 189-acre Rahway complex and is constructing a 220,000-square-foot office building on 520 acres it recently purchased adjacent to its 535-acre world headquarters in Readington Township.
And Schering-Plough, based in Madison, is constructing a 100,000-square-foot building at its Kenilworth campus and a 200,000-square-foot building at its Union complex.
Drug companies have been through this dance before. The difference this time "is the intensity and size of the mergers and acquisitions," said Hemant Shah, an independent stock analyst in Warren who tracks the pharmaceutical industry.
"They must develop new products, which requires a tremendous investment, and still deliver a 15 percent gain in earnings," he said, adding that mergers enable companies "to find the savings they need."
With the merger frenzy expected to continue, so will the space shuffling. Other companies involved in the intricate process are Warner-Lambert of Morris Plains, Manhattan-based Pfizer, American Home Products, based in Madison; Pharmacia & Upjohn, based in Peapack-Gladstone; Cincinatti-based Procter & Gamble and the Monsanto Company of St. Louis.
For now, Mr. Shah said, "New Jersey has not been a big space loser and may well come out a winner in all this."
COMMERCIAL brokers and state officials added that what has kept and will keep New Jersey attractive are its skilled workforce, biotechnology centers, universities, chemical companies and ports and airports. The key reason, they added, is that pharmaceutical firms want to rub elbows with others in the same business.
New Jersey, which is home to 191 drug companies, leads the nation in pharmaceutical jobs, which state figures put at 45,000 and industry data records at 57,000. Those firms spent $1.2 billion in capital improvements, including the construction and renovation of buildings, in 1998, according to the HealthCare Institute of New Jersey, a nonprofit trade group in New Brunswick.
"All indications are that the industry's commitment to research and development in the state will continue," said Rebecca Perkins, a spokeswoman for the HealthCare Institute.
The consolidations, like those in the past, will mean some job losses. But with the announcement earlier this month of the impending merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham, there has been speculation that the giant new company will have a presence in the state, bringing many new jobs.
Moreover, new biotechnology companies are expected to be created, adding still more jobs.
The impact on the 11-county northern and central New Jersey office market has been mostly positive said Thomas V. Giannone, senior managing director at the Edison office of Julien J. Studley, the national commercial tenant brokerage. His firm reports that in the last two years pharmaceutical firms leased 1.5 million square feet of space in blocks of 20,000 square feet or more, which represented 12 percent of 12.2 million square feet leased in the New Jersey region in that time.
Large drug companies typically prefer to own space, Mr. Giannone said. But, he added, their appetite for leased space increased to meet their need to make rapid moves.
Christopher E. Kinum, a principal at the Garibaldi Group, Corfac International brokerage in Chatham, added that while some companies were taking shorter five-year leases they were consolidating in New Jersey, where they have made significant investments in research and development centers, "anchoring them to the state."
THAT, along with the state's strong economy, added Andrew J. Merin, senior director of the Financial Services Group at the East Rutherford office of Cushman & Wakefield, has helped absorb space, spur new construction and prod rents upward.
According to his company's 1999 year-end report the total office vacancy rate dropped 0.8 percentage points to 11 percent from the previous year.
Despite the addition of 2.7 million square feet of new Class A space, the brokerage reported, the vacancy rate for last year dropped 0.1 percent from the previous year's 8.5 percent.
At the same time, annual average asking rents rose to $22.77 a square foot from $21.22, with the rent for Class A space -- generally the most modern and best-located buildings, which is most in demand -- rising from $26.57 to $28.50, the brokerage reported. It also estimates that 3.6 million square feet will be added over the next 18 months.
The building for Aventis will house up to 1,300 workers in the company's commercial operations, including sales and marketing and administrative support, which are being relocated from Kansas City and Pennsylvania.
The buildings will be developed by SJP Properties of Parsippany at its Somerset Corporate Center, at the intersection of Routes 202/206 and 22 and Interstates 287 and 78 in Bridgewater.
"We chose New Jersey because we wanted a stronger presence along with other major pharmaceutical companies, and the Bridgewater site because it's near our global research and development center, which will increase our efficiency," said Charles F. Rouse, spokesman for Aventis Pharmaceuticals. He said plans also called for expanding the existing Bridgewater building, which is three miles south along Route 202/ 206.
The first of the two new 310,000-square-foot buildings is under way and will be com-pleted by the first quarter of 2001, with completion of its twin to follow three months later, said Mr. Rouse. Because it "wanted to get the business going quickly," he said his company would start moving into the existing 340,000-square-foot building it leased in Parsippany through the middle of this year. That building also was built by SJP Properties.
Mr. Kinum said that with Aventis taking over 900,000 square feet of space there was less space on the market, which could encourage some developers to start new buildings.
One is Gale & Wentworth, of Florham Park, which has started a 131,000-square-foot building, the first at its Mountainview Corporate Center, off I-78 in Basking Ridge in Somerset County.
The center, which the company is developing with J.P. Morgan, eventually could have a total of 820,000 square feet in six buildings.
"While not the direct impetus, you can't build on 78 without being aware of the presence of drug companies, like Pharmacia," said Mark Yaeger, president of the Commercial Group at Gale & Wentworth.
To be sure, drug companies have given back some office as well as research and development space, and the potential separate mergers involving Warner-Lambert and Pharmacia remain open questions. But Mr. Giannone, of Julien Studley, said, and other brokers agreed, that the space that has been returned has been absorbed. They expect the leasing to continue, particularly for research and development space, which is scarce.
Novartis's Summit campus includes nearly a million square feet of research and development space at the back of the site. At a time when drug companies "are in a race and the name of the game is research," the site, which is one of the largest to become available in northern New Jersey, represents an opportunity, said Mr. Merin, of Cushman & Wakefield, which is marketing the property. Today, he added, it takes three years to build a single laboratory.
But, Mr. Merin said, the future of the front portion of the site is to replace the mostly older office buildings with up to 700,000 square feet of new Class A space -- or a mix of such office space and a hotel.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2003, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about an industry and government group that is marketing commercial space in New Jersey for use as emergency backup offices misspelled the surname of the president of the Gale Company, which is part of the consortium. (The error also occurred on April 26 and on Jan. 23, 2000.) He is Mark Yeager, not Yaeger.
The article and the picture caption also misidentified the town in which space has been leased for a backup facility. The building is at 125 Chubb Avenue in Lyndhurst, not Florham Park.

GRAPHIC: Map of New Jersey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (93%); SANF (BIT) (93%); SAN (PAR) (93%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (93%); NVS (NYSE) (92%); NOVN (SWX) (92%); MON (NYSE) (60%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (92%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (60%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (60%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (60%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (57%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (57%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (93%); NOVARTIS AG (92%); SANDOZ PHARMACEUTICALS CORP (68%); MONSANTO CO (60%); PFIZER INC (58%); RHONE-POULENC RORER TURKEY (57%); RHONE-POULENC RORER PHILS INC (57%); RHONE-POULENC RORER SA (57%); RHONE-POULENC RORER BANGLADESH LTD (57%); RHONE-POULENC RORER AS (57%); RHONE-POULENC RORER INC (57%); RHONE-POULENC RORER GMBH (57%); RHONE-POULENC RORER PUERTO RICO INC (57%); RHONE-POULENC RORER PAKISTAN LTD (57%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (50%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (95%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); MERGERS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2000



609 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Why Decry the Wealth Gap?

BYLINE: By W. Michael Cox and Richard Alm; W. Michael Cox, chief economist of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, and Richard Alm are co-authors of "Myths of Rich and Poor."

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
The economic expansion that began in 1991 will soon become the longest in our history, yet last week Americans may have been distracted by two reports reminding them of a widening gap between the rich and poor.
The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and the Economic Policy Institute, two liberal research groups, put out a state-by-state breakdown of Census Bureau data, which found nine states (led by New York) in which the richest 20 percent of households now earn at least 11 times the income of the poorest 20 percent. This indicated a much sharper disparity between the top and bottom than existed two decades ago. 
 Then the Federal Reserve Bank released its latest survey of consumer finances. It showed that the average net worth of families earning less than $10,000 a year had fallen by $6,600 over the past three years, while households earning more than $100,000 a year had seen their wealth jump by more than $300,000.
Our response is: So what?
Few of us should be surprised -- or threatened -- by statistics on inequality. Some Americans believe the more equality the better, but the fact is that the distribution of income and wealth isn't arbitrary. It emerges from broad trends in the economy and is a byproduct of a decade that created 17 million jobs and added 20 percent to median household net worth.
The unstated implication of the state-by-state report was that the states where income disparities are lower are somehow "fairer" than the states with high disparities. But the truth is that among communities, states and regions, income and wealth will vary for many reasons, several of them unavoidable and laudable.
Consider, for example, that income varies with education. According to census data, high school dropouts in the work force earn an average of $26,207, while workers with a professional degree average $127,499. Census figures show that many of the states with the widest income gaps have greater diversity in education levels than states with smaller income gaps. Twenty-six percent of those over the age of 24 in New York -- the state with the greatest income disparity -- have at least a bachelor's degree, whereas in Indiana, which was among the seven states with the lowest income disparity, only 16 percent do. Should we be lamenting that so many New Yorkers went to college?
Another non-nefarious cause of increasing income disparity may be our ever-higher immigration rates. Immigrants tend to cluster in low- and high-income groups. Thus it is no surprise that in the seven most unequal states -- New York, Arizona, New Mexico, Louisiana, California, Rhode Island and Texas -- about 13 percent of the population is foreign-born (in California, it's 25 percent). Among the seven states with the smallest income disparities, the immigrant population is only 3.8 percent.
The shift away from manufacturing is also a factor. Service workers span the gamut from hotel maids to brain surgeons, while the pay range is generally narrower in the manufacturing sector. States that are industrial tend to have more equal distributions of income. Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that about 10 percent of workers in Arizona, Louisiana and New York have manufacturing jobs, whereas in more equal states like Indiana and Wisconsin the figure is 23 percent.
Also, in the seven states with the greatest income inequality, more than 80 percent of the population lives in or near metropolitan areas. In states with the most equality, only about half does. If we were to turn back the clock 100 years and again become a largely rural nation, we might not see such large income disparities, but that's because America's cities are our engines of wealth and offer greater prospects for those who succeed.
And what of the poorest Americans' loss of ground compared to the richest, as reported by the Fed? The apostles of equality consider the rising inequality kindling for social unrest. But while that would be true if most workers on the bottom rungs were trapped there for generations, America isn't a caste society, and studies that track individuals' incomes over time show that Americans have a remarkable ability to propel themselves upward.
A 17-year study of lifetime earnings by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas found that only 5 percent of people in the economy's lowest 20 percent failed to move to a higher income group. In a similar study by the Treasury Department covering 1979 to 1988, 86 percent of Americans in the bottom fifth of income earners improved their status.
Inequality is not inequity. Artificial efforts to try to curb wealth gaps invariably do more harm than good. Heavier taxation might narrow the division between rich and poor, but it would be a hollow triumph if it stifled the economy. What Americans ought to care most about is maintaining our growth, not the red herring of gaps in income and wealth.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER ON BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES; ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (84%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES; ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (84%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; LABOR; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENSUS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (62%); IMMIGRATION (62%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%); 

PERSON: COX, W MICHAEL; ALM, RICHARD

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



610 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Media;
Time and Fortune play catch up -- ever so carefully -- on the AOL-Time Warner deal.

BYLINE: By Alex Kuczynski 

 BODY:
IT was around cocktail hour on the Sunday night before Time Warner and America Online announced the big deal that Norman Pearlstine, the editor in chief of Time Inc., heard the news.
Mr. Pearlstine said he was first surprised, and then daunted by the frustrating task of covering the news after he had just put all of his magazines to bed. "Fortune had closed 48 hours earlier and Time had closed 24 hours earlier," he said last week. "We were left playing catch up." 
 Catching up was only part of the problem. The coverage of the deal by Time and Fortune would be the first test of how the enormous new company would cover itself in its own pages. In the end, Time and Fortune covered the deal -- a barely adolescent new-media giant swallowing up their old-media parent company -- much like the punch line to that old joke about canoodling porcupines: very carefully.
"There's a a balancing act when you cover yourself," Mr. Pearlstine said. "There's no perfect way around it. There's conflict. There's potential for conflict. What did you know as a journalist and what did you know as a business partner? In the end, you just sit down and write in a way that does not violate corporate confidences."
The crew of newsweeklies mostly hewed to the AOL-as-winner line, and emphasized AOL's chairman, Stephen M. Case over Time Warner's chairman, Gerald M. Levin.
Newsweek, weighing in with 25 pages of coverage (compared with Time's 15 pages), styled Mr. Case as a latter-day Charles Foster Kane, a median titan for the next century. Its coverage included a solidly skeptical essay about both company's stock prices by the economic correspondent Allan Sloan.
In 10 pages of coverage, Business Week posed America Online as the clear winner in the deal, and also criticized AOL stock as volatile. Business Week showcased Robert W. Pittman and Mr. Case on its cover, in a mock magazine design brandishing the letters AOL in the typeface of Time magazine's logo. U.S. News & World Report and Newsweek, which is owned by the Washington Post Company, both ran lengthy profiles of Mr. Case.
"Levin is a smart guy and a good businessman," Mark Whitaker, the editor of Newsweek, said. "But his is the story of a skilled corporate insider. Compare that to the former Pizza Hut salesman who by his early 40's has taken a start-up company in 10 years to be so powerful that it can buy the biggest media and entertainment company in the world. That's a better profile for our readers, frankly."
Only Time magazine featured Mr. Levin along with Mr. Case on its cover and paired the two in a dual profile. Entertainment Weekly, another publication of Time Inc., featured a caricature of Mr. Case as a macho groom, Mr. Levin as a bride in drag and Ted Turner as a leering bridesmaid. On its cover this week, Fortune features William H. Gates and Mr. Case, in two separate stories for the issue that arrives on newsstands today.
Time's cover article, by Daniel Okrent -- who had been involved in previous Time Inc. Internet forays and knew most of the players in the deal on a first-name basis -- was an insider's account of the deal, and was tough about the company's sorry performance in developing an Internet strategy.
In the dual profile, while largely laudatory of Mr. Levin, Time also pointed out his "half a dozen spectacularly costly crashes," like the now-defunct TV-Cable Week. And two columns, by Michael Kinsley and Victor Navasky, examined the pros and cons of media concentration, respectively. Newsweek went with just one view on this subject, a critical one, by the Jonathan Alter.
Stephen B. Shepard, the editor in chief of Business Week, which is owned by McGraw-Hill, said that despite the fact he felt there was some added pressure to feature Mr. Levin on the Time cover, Time's coverage was fair. "Look, they used the word 'dinosaur' to refer to Time Warner, so I don't think they can be accused of going easy on themselves," he said.
But there was no lack of hand-wringing during the reporting process. One Time staff member sent an e-mail to colleagues warning them that the company's management would probably prefer the deal to be referred to in print as a merger, not an acquisition.
"There was no pressure from Time Warner to refer to it as one thing or another," Mr. Pearlstine said. "But if I said, 'look, here are the arguments for why it's a merger, not a purchase,' there is a risk that someone thinks I am laying down an edict."
Fortune's coverage painted AOL as the dominant partner in the deal. It began with a two-page editor's note defending the ability of Time Inc. magazines to report on the new landscape, pointing out such recent examples as Sports Illustrated's interview with John Rocker, the Atlanta Braves player, in which the pitcher painted himself as a xenophobe; the Braves are owned by Time Warner.
Carol J. Loomis wrote an article critical of the new company's ability to earn any money for investors saying that the market capitalization on AOL Time Warner would have to reach $2.4 trillion (from her estimate for the company currently which is $290 billion) to give an annual return of 15 percent. She compared the task to "pushing a boulder up an Alp."
John Huey, Fortune's managing editor, said: "I think we have the hardest time covering it. Those two companies operate at the white-hot center of what we care about as a magazine." But, he added, more concern went into the reporting for a positive story about Time Warner the magazine ran in 1998.
Mr. Huey said he overheard mention of the deal as he was flying from his home in Georgia to work in New York that Monday morning. "I overheard two people on the airplane and they had heard it on the radio," he said. "So that's how plugged in I am."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In covering the America Online-Time Warner deal, the crew of newsweeklies mostly hewed to the AOL-as-winner line, and emphasized the prominence of AOL's chairman, Stephen M. Case over Time Warner's chairman, Gerald M. Levin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CORP; AMERICA ONLINE TIME INC (93%); AOL INC (84%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (63%); PIZZA HUT INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME WARNER CORP; AMERICA ONLINE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); STARTUPS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (69%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX; CASE, STEPHEN M; LEVIN, GERALD M STEVE CASE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



611 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
DOW VS. NASDAQ: As technology stocks outperform again, it's the smaller players that are doing the heavy lifting.

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
THESE are blue days for blue chip owners, but they're great days if your money is in small technology stocks.
Last week was a bad one for the Dow Jones industrial average, the index that has long been identified with blue chip stocks. 
 But the technology-saturated Nasdaq composite index had its best week ever relative to the Dow. The Nasdaq rose 4.2 percent last week to yet another closing high, with gains in every trading session, while the Dow fell 4 percent as it declined each day.
That outperformance -- with the Nasdaq doing 8.2 percentage points better than the Dow -- far exceeded the Nasdaq's previous record for outperformance over a week. That margin, 4.8 percentage points, was set in the week ended Nov. 5.
Last week's divergence reflects continued speculation in small technology stocks at a time when rising interest rates have hurt many stocks -- including the bigger, bluer-chip technology stocks.
For instance, Intel and Microsoft, the Nasdaq-listed technology issues that were added to the Dow's 30 component stocks last year, were among the 23 Dow stocks that lost ground last week. And the other two most-active Nasdaq stocks last week, MCI WorldCom and Dell Computer, also lost ground. Together, those four stocks account for 20 percent of the Nasdaq composite index, but their decline did not stop that index from having a strong week.
The latest speculation in small technology stocks extends beyond Internet isues, but it is concentrated on companies that are often small and unprofitable.
There is nothing new in the Nasdaq's soaring, of course; it has doubled over the last 13 months. But the fact that smaller stocks are leading the way is a bit of a change.
The Russell 2,000 -- an index that includes the stocks that rank from 1,001 to 3,000 in market capitalization in the United States and is the most widely followed index of small stocks -- rose 5.2 percent last week, better than the Nasdaq, which is dominated by large technology stocks. Compare that to 1999, when the Nasdaq composite rose more than 80 percent for the year, while the Russell was up less than 20 percent.
In the past, huge margins of outperformance by Nasdaq over the Dow have usually -- but not always -- come at a time when the momentum of the Nasdaq composite was likely to continue. As calculated by Bloomberg Financial Markets and going back to the Nasdaq's creation in 1971, of the 10 previous cases when the Nasdaq composite outperformed the Dow by at least four percentage points during a week, on eight occasions the Nasdaq composite outperformed the Dow over the subsequent four weeks.
Perhaps more important, the Nasdaq composite registered gains in seven of those eight cases.
The most notable exception came slightly less than a year ago. In the week ended Jan. 29, 1999, the Nasdaq leaped 7.1 percent, vastly outperforming the Dow, which gained 2.6 percent. Over the next four weeks, though, the Dow slipped only a bit while the Nasdaq fell 8.1 percent. Technology stocks, which had led the move up, also led the move down.
On the other hand, the most recent big outperformance for the Nasdaq over the Dow, prior to last week -- the week of Nov. 5, noted above, when the Nasdaq rose 4.6 percent and the Dow slipped a bit -- served as a signal that the current Nasdaq surge was under way. It was the third week in a row that the Nasdaq rose at least 3 percent, and it did not have a week with a gain of less than 2 percent for the rest of 1999.
A drop of 4.6 percent occurred in the first week of this year, but the Nasdaq has more than made up for that decline by rising more than 4 percent in each of the two subsequent weeks.
All told, since Oct. 15 -- a period of 14 weeks -- the Nasdaq composite has risen 55 percent, while the Dow has gained 12 percent and the Russell 2,000 is up 29 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Nasdaq Rules"
Weeks in which the Nasdaq composite outperformed the Dow Jones industrial average by the largest amount and performance during the subsequent four weeks.
 
Table

	 	 	 	WEEK ENDED	DOW CHANGE	NASDAQ CHANGE	DIFFERENCE	Jan. 21, 2000	-4.02%	+4.21%	+8.23 pts.	Nov. 5, 1999	-0.24	+4.58	+4.82	Aug. 27, 1982	+1.63	+6.37	+4.74	Jan. 29, 1999	+2.61	+7.14	+4.53	Dec. 24, 1999	+1.32	+5.77	+4.45	Oct. 13, 1989	-7.76	-3.38	+4.38	Oct. 18, 1974	-0.50	+3.86	+4.36	Aug. 27, 1999	-0.09	+4.18	+4.27	April 4, 1986	-4.53	-0.29	+4.24	Jan. 25, 1991	+0.48	+4.59	+4.11	Oct. 23, 1998	+0.42	+4.50	+4.08	
 
NEXT FOUR WEEKS

DOW CHANGE	NASDAQ CHANGE	DIFFERENCE	--	--	--	+5.43%	+13.48%	+8.05 pts.	+4.08	+6.20	+2.12	-0.56	-8.69	-8.14	-1.18	+6.55	+7.73	+2.19	-2.38	-4.57	-1.11	+2.65	+3.76	-7.31	-0.67	+6.64	+2.04	+2.94	+0.90	+8.65	+13.87	+5.22	+8.37	+13.84	+5.47	
 
AVERAGE
 
DOW CHANGE: +2.06%
NASDAQ CHANGE: +4.78%
DIFFERENCE: +2.72 pts.
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (90%); VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



612 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Autobytel to Sells Cars Directly Over Internet
Autobytel, the Internet car-buying service, plans to announce today that it will act as a car broker by selling cars directly over the Internet.
The announcement at the annual convention of car dealers in Orlando comes on the heels of Friday's news that Amazon.com would get into the online car-selling business by taking a 5 percent stake in Greenlight.com, and is part of a broader scramble by high-flying Internet companies to get into the business of selling cars and car parts. Page C2.
 
Ms. Hires Former Globe Columnist
Ms. magazine said it had hired Patricia Smith, the former Boston Globe columnist who admitted fabricating information. Ms. Smith's first column for the magazine, titled "Fools in Love," will appear in the February/March issue, and center on a visit to her 22-year-old son in prison. Marcia Ann Gillespie, the magazine's editor in chief, said that she had long been an admirer of Ms. Smith's work, adding that she was "delighted" to have Ms. Smith on staff and that she had no qualms about the writer's editorial integrity. C11. 

Microsoft to Push Video-on-Demand
Microsoft will invest $56 million in Intertainer, a privately held company that provides a video-on-demand service, company executives said. The deal, which is expected to be formally announced today, would give Microsoft a stake of 20 percent in Intertainer. C4.
 
Nasdaq's Best Week Versus Dow
The technology-saturated Nasdaq composite index had its best week ever, relative to the Dow. The Nasdaq rose 4.2 percent last week to yet another closing high, with gains in every trading session, while the Dow fell 4 percent as it declined each day. Last week's divergence reflects continued speculation in small technology stocks at a time when rising interest rates have hurt many stocks -- including the bigger, bluer-chip technology stocks. Floyd Norris: Market Place. C4.
 
'Spin City' Starts From Scratch
DreamWorks heads into the television's development season in serious need of a new breakthrough hit after Michael J. Fox, the popular star of "Spin City," said he would leave the show because of his battle with Parkinson's disease. ABC executives said they would look closely at how the show's creator proposes to keep the show running. C11.
 
Turning Cars Into Snow Plows
An inventor in Wilton, Conn., has designed a plow blade for his car that is five millimeters thick, made of steel and can be attached to the pre-existing tabs on a car chassis, called ears, which are normally used for tying a car down during shipping. The man, Gordon Nugent envisions a person attaching the blade in three minutes and says it can be done without damaging the car. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. C9.
 
Fox Division Offers Free Web Access
News Digital Media, the online publishing arm of the News Corporation's Fox Network, said it would offer free Internet and e-mail service through www.Simpsons.com, a new World Wide Web fan site of the animated TV sitcom. The move comes shortly after Kmart said it would provide free Internet service through its shopping site, following similar announcements by Yahoo, Excite@Home and others. C4.
 
A Super Bowl Hyperbole Backlash
The hoopla and hyperbole surrounding the costly commercials that will run on Sunday during Super Bowl XXXIV has been intensified by the dozen or more dot-coms scheduled to appear for the first time. And the noise is generating a bit of a backlash centered on "anti-advertising": promotions, public-relations campaigns, sweepstakes and other efforts off the gridiron to reach consumers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C13.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ABTL (NASDAQ) (90%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AUTOBYTEL INC (90%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); WRITERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (70%); NETWORK TELEVISION (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: PATRICIA SMITH (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



613 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Jean MacArthur, General's Widow, Dies at 101

BYLINE: By ENID NEMY 

 BODY:
Jean MacArthur, the widow of Gen. Douglas MacArthur, who remained at her husband's side through the darkest days of World War II and was often introduced by him as "my finest soldier," died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 101.
Throughout their 27-year marriage, the couple, who met when she was 36 and he was nearly 20 years older than her and was the survivor of an earlier unhappy marriage, maintained an old-fashioned formality. Mrs. MacArthur addressed her husband in the presence of others as "the general." He called her "ma'am" and in his later years, confided that she was his "constant friend, sweetheart and devoted support." 
 Mrs. MacArthur, whom William Manchester, the MacArthur biographer, described as "a poem of womanhood," married General MacArthur in New York in 1937. They had met two years previously when he was a fellow passenger on the S.S. President Hoover, en route to the Philippines to assume his duties as military adviser to the government there. Later, he became the supreme allied commander in the Southwest Pacific, waged the campaign against Japan and accepted the surrender of Japanese forces in 1945 in Tokyo Bay aboard the U.S.S. Missouri.
When the war ended, he oversaw the occupation of Japan as supreme commander of allied forces in Japan. After North Korean forces invaded South Korea, he also became supreme commander of the United Nations forces in Korea until April 1951, when, in a dispute over the prosecution of the war, he was relieved of both commands by President Harry S. Truman. He returned to America and a hero's welcome and became chairman of Remington Rand and then of the Sperry Rand Corporation. He died in 1964.
Mrs. MacArthur displayed an indomitable spirit and determination in the face of wartime trials.
After the Japanese invaded the Philippines, it was decided to abandon Manila in 1942 and move the government to the island of Corregidor. Mrs. MacArthur packed a few necessities and, as she was leaving the apartment, she passed a cabinet containing the decorations awarded to her husband. She removed the medals from their cases, wrapped them in a towel and made room for them in her suitcase by discarding some of her own clothes.
Later, when the military situation on Corregidor rapidly deteriorated, the general informed her that President Manuel Quezon of the Philippines had offered her and their young son, Arthur, passage to Australia. "We have drunk from the same cup; we three shall stay together," she replied. The MacArthurs and their 4-year-old son lived in an underground bunker during months of bombardment before agreeing to evacuation on President Franklin D. Roosevelt's orders.
Mrs. MacArthur, the former Jean Marie Faircloth, was born in Nashville on Dec. 28, 1898. Her father, Edward C. Faircloth, was a banker and businessman. She was 8 when her parents divorced and her mother, a native of Murfreesboro, Tenn., took her young daughter and her two sons, Cameron and Frederick, back to her birthplace.
The head of the Murfreesboro household was her grandfather, Capt. Richard Beard, a Confederate veteran, and Mrs. MacArthur was raised in a home where a Confederate uniform was a badge of honor.
Fellow members of the Daughters of the American Revolution recalled that "every time Jean Faircloth heard a Fourth of July firecracker go off, she jumped to attention and saluted." Young men were advised that "if you want to win Jean Marie, you better get a uniform."
Mrs. Faircloth married again in 1907 and there were two children of that marriage to Frederick Smith -- Harvard Smith and Donna Angeline Smith.
Mrs. MacArthur was educated at Ward-Belmont College in Nashville and at Soule College in Murfreesboro, from which she graduated.
As a young girl, she had not been close to her father, but as he grew older and wealthier, he frequently took her on trips and cruises with him. When he died, he left her a substantial fortune, and she used it to travel extensively, visiting friends in Manila, cruising in Europe and taking her half-sister on a South American cruise and her half-brother on a three-month round-the-world cruise.
A vivacious woman with meticulous manners, Mrs. MacArthur took seriously the social duties connected with her husband's position, both in the military and later in private life. After his death, she refused to bask in reflected fame, leading a quiet social life within a select circle of well-known New Yorkers. She pursued her interests in fashion, theater and opera.
Friends recalled that on one occasion at the Metropolitan Opera, she paused as she walked down the aisle to make sure that the plaque bearing her name was still attached to an orchestra seat. "I paid $1,000 for it," she said.
She also worked on behalf of several civic and philanthropic activities, and was honorary chairman of the board of the Gen. Douglas MacArthur Foundation in Norfolk, Va. In 1990, at age 91, with her friend Barbara Bush at her side, she cut the ribbon opening the research center of the MacArthur Memorial in Norfolk, where her husband is buried.
Mrs. MacArthur received the distinguished public service award from the Department of Defense in 1984, and in 1988, President Ronald Reagan presented her with the Medal of Freedom, the highest award given a civilian in peacetime, for her patriotic service to the nation. The government of the Philippines honored her in 1993 with its Legion of Merit medal. She was one of the few private citizens to receive a visit from the Emperor and Empress of Japan during their trip to the United States in 1994.
One of her favorite stories when she reached the last decade of her life was about her conversation with the driver as she was bouncing around in a New York City taxi. "I'm 90 years old," she said. "Can you go a bit slower please?"
"I'm sorry, Mrs. MacArthur," the driver said. "I remember you from the Philippines and how you bounced around in the jeeps there and it didn't bother you."
Her intimate friends also recalled that although she would order a martini "to be social" when dining out, she had earlier briefed the waiters and bartenders in her favorite restaurants on what that really meant. A martini glass filled with water and decorated with a lemon twist would be brought to her, and she would smile appreciatively as she sipped.
She is survived by her son, Arthur, of New York City, and her half-sister, Angie McCarthy, of Murfreesboro, said Col. William J. Davis, executive director of the MacArthur Foundation in Norfolk.
Mrs. MacArthur will be buried beside her husband at the MacArthur Memorial in Norfolk after a private service for her on Wednesday, Colonel Davis said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gen. Douglas MacArthur and Jean MacArthur in 1942 on Corregidor Island in the Philippines, where they lived in a bunker during the siege. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (65%); 

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (65%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (99%); WORLD WAR II (90%); DEATHS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WRITERS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); 

PERSON: MACARTHUR, JEAN; NEMY, ENID; MACARTHUR, DOUGLAS (GEN) (1880-1964) WILLIAM RAYMOND MANCHESTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



614 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Rome Journal;
Cleaning Up a Capital and Noticing the Homeless

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: ROME, Jan. 23

 BODY:
Termini, Rome's long-neglected central train station, now gleams like a temple of traveler comfort and consumer delights. After a 14-month renovation, there are polished floors, posh cafes, computerized ticket sales and even a glossy, well-lit underground shopping mall, patrolled by the police and private security guards who politely but firmly expel vagrants.
Only the huddled bodies lying on the dark surrounding sidewalks suggest the social upheaval beneath this capital's effort to renovate and modernize itself for the year 2000. Train stations and public parks that were once used by vagrants, immigrants, drug addicts and alcoholics have been cleaned up and closed off. 
 Eight homeless people have died on the streets of Rome since New Year's Eve, the start of the Vatican's 2000 Jubilee, including a 60-year old woman who died near St. Peter's Basilica. Those deaths have caused shock and soul-searching in a usually balmy capital where homelessness mostly used to seem like a preoccupation of larger, harsher cities like New York or Moscow.
"I understand that now that Termini is fixed up, the city cannot allow the homeless to sleep there," said Francesca Zuccari, a director of the Community of Sant'Egidio, a Catholic charitable institution. "It's a question of public order."
She spoke late Tuesday night as she and a dozen volunteers handed out sandwiches to hundreds of Kurdish immigrants lined up outside the train station and tried to reassure a group of panicked elderly Italian vagrants who had just been ordered to leave the station.
"But there is also the question of our own decency as a civilization," she said. "Where are these people supposed to go?"
By the standards of New York -- where on any given night, 25,000 people bed down in shelters and thousands more roam the streets, a rate three times higher than in Rome -- the homeless in the Italian capital are almost undetectable.
City officials and charitable groups estimate that there are as many as 6,000 homeless people in Rome, and that on any given night, 1,800 sleep on the street. Even after the city hurriedly added 200 additional cots in abandoned warehouses to cope with a cold-weather emergency last week, there are only 1,030 shelter beds. That is far fewer than needed, even by the most conservative estimates.
Even Rome's milder winters can kill people on the streets. Autopsy reports in the eight recent deaths have not been completed, and the victims range from a 60-year-old Swiss alcoholic whose name is known only as Heidi, who died on Jan. 3 a few blocks from St. Peter's, to a 51-year-old Italian man who died underneath his cardboard boxes on the Piazza Augusto Imperatore.
"The exact causes of death haven't been determined," said Giuseppina Gabriele, the city supervisor of services to the homeless. "But we cannot deny that being on the street played a part."
Italy, with its tradition of tight family ties and Catholic charity, was long spared the homeless phenomenon that became acute in the United States and some parts of Northern Europe in the 1980's. But recent budget cuts have left holes in Italy's relatively generous welfare safety net, family solidarity has splintered, and immigrants who pour in from the Balkans, North Africa and elsewhere, lured by a mild climate and a relatively easygoing police force, have put new strains on a once fairly homogenous society.
Until recently, the city of Rome spent relatively little of its own money on the homeless, whose numbers have doubled in the last two years. City officials who work with the homeless contend that more than half of those in their care are either from other regions of Italy or foreigners.
Ninety percent of funds allocated to charities like the Salvation Army, Sant'Egidio and Caritas, the Catholic aid agency, for meals and shelters have been provided by the regional government, and charities also rely on church and state funds and private donations to make ends meet.
But last year, without explanation, the region cut funds for homeless projects from $3.5 million to $3.3 million. The city made up the difference and earmarked an additional $3.8 million to open special housing centers that would provide daytime care as well as beds, and would try to find jobs and real housing for the residents.
"It is not a solution to keep people on the street," Ms. Gabriele said. "We must aim to get them back into society."
But those longer-term efforts are costly and limited in scope. This year the city will be able to accommodate 130 people in such programs.
Rome does not have the same grinding social debate over homelessness that so divides New Yorkers. It has not been much of a problem until recently, and a European social welfare tradition leads most people to say there should be help for the homeless.
Some Italian homeless people speak resentfully of the immigrants they view as getting handouts from the government that should be reserved for needy Italians, but no political party is pressing to require the homeless to work for their food and shelter, or deny it to illegal aliens.
"Squeegee men," mostly Sri Lankans, Pakistanis and Africans, are usually tolerated by the police and taxpayers, as are beggars and gypsies.
Rome's mayor, Francesco Rutelli, a congenial center-left politician with matinee-idol looks, is not as given to expressing strong opinions on social issues as Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. Mayor Rutelli is under frequent attack, but the hot issues are traffic and unfinished construction sites, not the homeless.
But after the eight deaths and resulting banner newspaper headlines, the Italian government announced last week that it would divide $16 million among nine major Italian cities to deal with this winter's emergency. It was a signal that the existing systems cannot cope with a new urban reality.
Even now, the phenomenon of homelessness here is new enough that Italians do not have their own word for today's style of vagrant. "Barbone," a word coined in the 1930's for a man with a long beard, does not adapt easily to the new mix of alcoholics, drug addicts, immigrants, mentally ill people and the unemployed.
Newspapers use the English word, "homeless" or even the French term for wino, "clochard." Government documents use the unwieldly term, "people without a fixed abode."
Sant'Egidio publishes a yearly Rome guide that lists where the homeless can get free meals or a bed, shower or wash their clothes.
At a canteen run by Caritas, which like Sant'Egidio has a contract from the city to provide food and shelter for the homeless, several hundred people line up daily for a free meal of pasta, potatoes and cutlets spooned out by elderly volunteers.
There are unemployed Italians who line up as well as pensioners. The Italians sit at different tables from the foreigners -- middle-aged Ukrainian women, Albanians, Kurds and Africans, some of whom appear as if shell-shocked by their downward spiral in a city they hoped was paved with opportunity.
"I didn't expect Europe to be like this -- I thought I could continue my education," Biniam Tesfai, 19, said, smiling wryly at his own naivete.
Mr. Tesfai, an Ethiopian university student who fled his war-ravaged country seven months ago, eats at the canteen and at night sleeps in a makeshift shelter, 40 men to a room, that is run privately by an elderly nun outside the city limits.
"It is difficult to find work when you see so many Italians unemployed," he said, adding that he hoped to go to another country soon. "I do not want to stay here and do nothing. If that happens, sometimes you get crazy or do things you wouldn't normally do."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Homeless people in the Tiburtina station in Rome. Eight have died on Rome's streets since New Year's Eve. (Carlo Lannutti for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (93%); HOLY SEE (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME (ITALY); NEW YORK CITY; MOSCOW (RUSSIA); UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (93%); HOLY SEE (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ROME, ITALY (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; RAILROADS HOMELESSNESS (93%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); DEATHS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); TRAINS (78%); RELIGION (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); CHARITIES (70%); AUTOPSIES (69%); CITIES (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



615 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Talks on Biotech Food Today in Montreal Will See U.S. Isolated

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

 BODY:
Nearly a year after the United States blocked a proposed global treaty to regulate trade in genetically modified products, delegates from more than 130 nations will resume negotiations today in Montreal in search of a breakthrough. After months of international protest and concern about bioengineered food, Washington will be even more on the defensive.
Negotiations in Cartagena, Colombia, collapsed last February when the United States and five other big grain-exporting nations rejected a proposal supported by the other countries that would have required exporters of genetically modified corn, soybeans and other crops to obtain permission in advance from the importing country. 
 Since then, public concern about possible health and ecological risks of foods made with biotechnology has intensified in Europe and spread to other countries.
In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration recently held three public hearings on the subject. Gerber and Heinz have said they would avoid genetically engineered ingredients in baby food, and Monsanto, the leader in biotech seeds, has been accused in a lawsuit of selling those seeds without adequately testing them, a charge the company denies.
The intensifying debate is expected to put pressure on Washington to make a deal in the new talks. "Hopefully there's been enough ferment in the U.S. that the U.S. is prepared to say, 'We need to get something in place,' " said Kristin Dawkins of the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy in Minneapolis, a nonprofit organization that favors such a treaty.
Still, divisions remain deep, and it is unclear whether an agreement will be reached by Friday, the self-imposed deadline. Talks on biotechnology at the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle in December went nowhere amid wide disagreements and huge street protests. Demonstrations are planned in Montreal, where authorities say they do not expect the protests to cause the same havoc as took place in Seattle. Hundreds of people did hold a protest on Saturday, sponsored by Greenpeace.
Developing nations and those in Europe say the treaty, known as the Biosafety Protocol, is needed to allow countries to restrict the import of plants, seeds, animals and foods made with genetic engineering.
The United States, while not opposing a treaty in principle, says the proposals under discussion would entangle agricultural trade in red tape and endanger billions of dollars in American farm exports. The United States leads the world in biotechnology, and last year half of the American soybean crop and one-third of the corn had genes introduced to resist herbicides or insects.
American industry and government officials accuse Europe of wanting a treaty to help it erect trade barriers and to justify the restrictive stance it is already taking on genetically modified foods.
David Sandalow, assistant secretary of state for oceans, environment and science and the chief United States negotiator, said, "We'll be coming to Montreal to negotiate and hoping to make a deal." He said that given the furor over genetically modified foods in Europe, "I'm worried that European leaders won't have the flexibility they need to take reasoned, centrist positions on this."
Christoph Bail, the lead negotiator for the European Union, said Europe does not need a treaty to restrict imports of biotech crops because it already has its own legislation. Rather, it favors a strong treaty to help developing nations. He said that Europe would be flexible and that he was "mildly optimistic" that an agreement could be reached.
With Europe and some individual countries now regulating biotech foods on their own, industry executives say they could actually benefit from a treaty -- providing it is not too onerous -- that would unify regulations around the world and assuage public concerns.
"We would be willing to put up with quite a bit of nonsense in return for predictability," said L. Val Giddings, vice president for food and agriculture at the Biotechnology Industry Organization, an American trade association.
But he added that proposed regulations look unworkable and are not spelled out in enough detail. "We're being told to jump off the Empire State Building and make your parachute on the way down," he said.
The biosafety talks are an outgrowth of the 1992 Convention on Biological Diversity. Since the Senate never approved that convention, the United States will not be able to vote in Montreal and must rely on its allies -- Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile and Uruguay -- to speak for it in the formal meetings.
The rationale for the biosafety treaty was that genetically modified plants, animals or micro-organisms could displace or endanger native crops or microbes. But, much to the dismay of the biotech industry and Washington, the talks have moved well beyond species preservation.
The heart of the proposed Biosafety Protocol -- and the biggest sticking point in the negotiations -- is a requirement that exporters of "living modified organisms" notify the importing nation in advance, giving that nation a chance to reject the shipment.
Washington contends that such a requirement is appropriate for bioengineered seeds, bacteria or animals that are released into the environment, but not for commodities like wheat and corn that are eaten or processed, since they are not released into the environment. Since genetically modified and unmodified grains are now often intermixed in shipments, such a requirement would cost billions of dollars, requiring crops to be tracked from the field to the docks, it says.
But Europe and the developing countries say that concerns about high costs are exaggerated and that agricultural commodities should be included because they contain seeds that can be planted or can escape into the environment.
Another sticking point is that Washington, worried that the biosafety rules will be a pretense for trade barriers, wants to make sure that the treaty does not take precedence over World Trade Organization rules.
But the developing countries and Europe say Washington's proposed wording would subordinate the Biosafety Protocol to the World Trade Organization, which they do not want.
What is at stake in this argument is that under World Trade Organization rules, a nation must base a decision to bar imports of a product on scientific evidence. But Europe and the developing countries want the biosafety treaty to allow such decisions to be made on the basis of reasonable concerns, even in the absence of hard evidence.
Some compromises have been put forward, but all sides agree that they have not gone far enough to bridge the gaps. Washington has offered to disseminate information on the Internet as soon as genetically modified crops are approved by federal regulators, giving other countries time to decide whether they will allow imports.
American and European officials do agree that the treaty should not cover the labeling on store shelves of biotech foods. That is a matter for domestic legislation, they say. What is at issue in Montreal is the labeling on shipments of genetically modified crops and seeds.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (56%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); EUROPE (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); EUROPE (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; GENETIC ENGINEERING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (93%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (92%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); GRAIN FARMING (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SOYBEAN FARMING (75%); HERBICIDES (75%); CORN FARMING (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); TRADE DISPUTES (68%); LITIGATION (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ANIMALS (65%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



616 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: That's Show Biz, and Academia

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 23

 BODY:
Here in the city where "entertainment" means everything from a televised freeway chase to a multimillion-dollar movie, the University of Southern California is embarking on an ambitious interdisciplinary effort to study entertainment as a defining concept of 21st-century life, in fields from law to architecture, from business to journalism, with the dual goal of prompting intellectual debate and training the next generation of media moguls.
The initiative, believed to be the first of its kind, takes a page from earlier multidepartmental academic programs, like environmental studies, American studies and the program in history and literature at Harvard. It offers as its organizing thesis nothing less than the assertion that today, in every advanced industrial economy on earth, the largest and most important component of cultural content is entertainment. 
 University officials say their ultimate goal is to coordinate some 100 existing courses and add a range of new ones to examine the impact on the culture of everything from theme parks and casinos to music videos and attention-grabbing graphics in television news.
The program is the brainchild of Martin Kaplan, associate dean of the Annenberg School for Communication at U.S.C., which houses the university's courses in journalism and communication. Dr. Kaplan, a former chief speechwriter for Vice President Walter F. Mondale and a former studio executive and screenwriter at Disney, describes the program as an effort to bring the intellectual rigor long applied to topics like politics, education and high culture to a study of the driving engine of mass culture.
"Each of those areas is supposed to have standards and hierarchies and epistemologies that stand up to the world, so journalism, for example, depends in part on understanding what it is not," said Dr. Kaplan, whose varied background includes the presidency of The Harvard Lampoon as an undergraduate, a Ph.D. from Stanford in modern thought and literature and a screenwriting credit for the Eddie Murphy comedy "The Distinguished Gentleman."
"Entertainment's only value is do I like it, am I bored, does it keep my attention?" Dr. Kaplan said. "When you apply that to these other realms, very interesting distortions begin to happen."
The effort got under way quietly with an undergraduate survey course last fall that used texts like Neal Gabler's "Life the Movie: How Entertainment Conquered Reality." It is now being greatly expanded with a $5 million gift from the television producer Norman Lear, creator of cultural touchstones like "All in the Family," to start the Norman Lear Center at the Annenberg School. The center will sponsor seminars, conferences and scholarly writing on topics from children and media to the effects of celebrity on politics to the ownership of intellectual property and imagery in a digital age, when presidents can be inserted into fictional films and dead actors can be revived for cameos.
"I think it's an idea whose time has come," said Kevin Starr, a university professor at U.S.C. and the author of an acclaimed series of social histories of California, who is on the advisory panel for the new program. "This is an international business that profoundly affects politics, family life, intellectual life and every area of American life. The university has got to be looking at it the way the university looks at other phenomena. There's no one discipline that can contain it, and Los Angeles is ground zero for this business."
To Mr. Lear, who has used his fortune to support scores of philanthropic causes from environmental protection to civil liberties, the effort "couldn't be more timely." The power of the media broadly defined is now such, he said in an interview, "that the heads of major corporations will have more impact on the values of people worldwide than the heads of governments."
"What a time to be thinking about how we make some intelligent diagnosis," Mr. Lear added.
Neil Postman, chairman of the department of culture and communication at New York University and the author of such critical studies of the media as "Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business," said the efforts of the Lear Center struck him as timely and potentially valuable.
"The idea of taking what people call the entertainment culture as a focus of study, including historical perspective, is not a bad idea," Professor Postman said. "It's always dangerous because of the temptation -- especially in California, I imagine -- to just get a lot of movie stars and directors and producers to come and tell you how wonderful it all is. But if it's done from a critical point of view, to examine what is wrong and right with the entertainment culture and what problems it creates, then I think it's a good idea."
Geoffrey Cowan, the dean of the Annenberg School, said the goal was to bring both dispassionate criticism and firsthand knowledge to the subject. Like Dr. Kaplan, Mr. Cowan is something of a polymath. A Yale-trained lawyer who spent more than 20 years teaching communications at the University of California at Los Angeles, Mr. Cowan is the son of Louis G. Cowan, who created the game show "The $64,000 Question" and served as president of the CBS television network and director of the Voice of America, a job that Mr. Cowan himself held decades later under President Clinton before coming to Annenberg three years ago.
"What Marty and I may bring to this, hopefully, is an understanding of the industry which makes us not just critics," Mr. Cowan said.
And since the new program aims in part to make the next generation of agents, entertainment lawyers and moguls think critically about their own business, he added, "The vocational and intellectual fit together very closely."
So, for example, Mr. Cowan will teach one of the eight new undergraduate courses planned for the program, "Fact and Fiction: From Journalism to the Docudrama," a study of the "historical, legal and ethical limits to the misrepresentations of fact."
Among the other elements of the program is a planned two-year faculty seminar, "Celebrity, Politics and the Public Sphere." The seminar will be led by Leo Braudy, an English professor and author of "The Frenzy of Renown," an acclaimed study of fame through the ages, and Steven J. Ross, a historian and author of "Working-Class Hollywood: Silent Film and the Shaping of Class in America."
"What I tried to do in the fame book is to avoid the horrible alternatives of throwing up your hands and saying the culture's going down the tubes, or indulging in the superficiality of it all, but instead being able to stand back and see what serious issues are intertwined with what seem to be superficial issues," Professor Braudy said. He added that he hoped the faculty seminar could help break down an academic culture that tends by its nature to be "discipline-bound and isolating."
"There's a way in which the country itself appeared on the stage of world history as this kind of ingenue country, this Cinderella nation, and immediately tried to make a name for itself," he added. "That's very interwoven in American history, and knowing that history lets you see what's going on in the present."
Erwin Chemerinsky, a constitutional expert at the U.S.C. law school, will lead a conference next year on how technology has affected intellectual property rights, using case studies of real situations to examine the issue with experts including producers, writers and academics.
"What makes this so exciting is that it is interdisciplinary," Professor Chemerinsky said. "It's a chance to deal with a cutting-edge legal issue, and bring to bear all the different perspectives on it, within the university community and beyond."
Dr. Kaplan said his goal was to examine such topics from every angle, eventually producing everything from Congressional testimony to discussions on the Lear Center's new Web site, entertainment.usc.edu.
"The entertainment industry could profit from more leaders who grasp its impact on society," a glossy brochure for the program says, adding, "The society could benefit from more conscience, and more critical self-consciousness, in the creative process."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martin Kaplan, left, and Geoffrey Cowan, right, of the University of Southern California meeting with Norman Lear, who is helping to finance the university's new interdisciplinary program for the study of entertainment. (Ed Carreon for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); WRITERS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); LITERATURE (75%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: KAPLAN, MARTIN (DEAN); PURDUM, TODD S EDDIE MURPHY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



617 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: PALESTINIAN TALKS MAY MISS DEADLINE, ISRAELI AIDE SAYS

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Jan. 23

 BODY:
Israel and the Palestinians will intensify their peace negotiations during the next few weeks, but it is growing increasingly unlikely that they will reach a framework agreement by their goal of mid-February, Israel's senior negotiator said today.
"If I have to be realistic, it is difficult to reach this date," Oded Eran, the negotiator, said this morning in a breakfast meeting with foreign journalists. 
 Mr. Eran was acknowledging publicly what Israeli, Palestinian and American officials have been saying privately for weeks, and the way he talked made it seem that he assumes that the deadline will not be met.
That represents a real deflation of the hope of rapid progress that Mr. Barak voiced last fall.
But Mr. Eran said he still believed that a full permanent peace accord could be forged by September. That is the final deadline set in the most recent interim accord, and the date by which Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, has said he will make a unilateral declaration of statehood if the talks are not completed.
Palestinian officials announced on Saturday that Mr. Arafat, Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and President Clinton would meet next weekend in Davos, Switzerland, at the worldwide economic talks there. Senior Israeli and American officials said the meeting was not confirmed. It would be the first three-way meeting since the leaders got together in Oslo last November.
The Americans are not prepared to invite the parties to the Washington area for the Camp David-style summit meeting that was proposed in Oslo as a possibility for February, American officials said.
The Israelis and the Palestinians are too far apart on every issue before them: borders, Jewish settlements in the West Bank, the status of Jerusalem, Palestinian refugees, security and water. There are no working papers on any issue, an American official said.
All the same, the working presumption is that both sides will use the Feb. 13 deadline as a catalyst to redouble their efforts in the remaining days. And it is possible that American peace envoys will travel to the region to oversee intensified talks, an American official said -- but probably only if the Israeli-Syrian negotiations, which were suspended last week, are not resumed.
Mr. Eran said he felt that the Israeli-Palestinian talks were taking place in the shadow of the Israeli-Syrian negotiations, which inevitably divides the peacemaking attention of Mr. Barak and the American team. He said he had to fight Mr. Barak's attempts to raid his negotiating teams to assemble committees to meet with the Syrians.
Mr. Eran, who was Israel's ambassador to Jordan before he was assigned to oversee the peace talks, said there was "nothing sacred" in the original Feb. 13 deadline for a broad-brush framework agreement.
"The issue is, can we bridge the gaps?" he said. "Now we are on the 23rd of January. We have three weeks to ready an agreement, if we stick to the original plan. If I have to be realistic, it is difficult to reach this date."
"But we can reach the two accords in the eight months until September," he added, referring to the framework and a comprehensive peace agreement.
When asked, Mr. Eran said he was not concerned about Palestinian unrest if the February deadline was broken. He said Mr. Arafat had never been keen on Mr. Barak's idea of aiming for a framework agreement halfway through the negotiations for a final accord. Mr. Arafat's eyes, he said, have always been trained on the full accord.
A senior Palestinian official agreed that Mr. Arafat did not put too much stock in the framework idea. But, he said, if the deadline is broken, many Palestinians will see it as "another Israeli promise broken."
Mr. Eran himself said he could not imagine that a framework accord would have any meaning unless it contained very specific details about the division of territory, including the fate of Jerusalem and the Jewish settlements in the West Bank.
In addition to overseeing the final peace talks, Mr. Eran is charged with negotiating the plans for carrying out the most recent interim agreement, signed in Sharm el Sheik, Egypt, last September. With surprising frankness, he said the interim issues had taken too much time and annoyingly distracted negotiators from the more important permanent peace talks. "I can see the Palestinian side," he said. "What if there is no final status agreement? But if there is no final status, both sides are looking at larger problems."
Among the unresolved interim issues are two more land transfers and the opening of a northern safe passage route between the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, to complement the southern route opened last fall.
One land transfer -- involving 6.1 percent of the West Bank -- is overdue, and Mr. Eran said the Israelis would decide in the next couple of days what land to return. He said the Palestinians had submitted requests for territory, which are believed to contain a request for villages like Abu Dis, which borders Jerusalem.
Mr. Eran said Abu Dis, which some believe that the Palestinians are preparing to be the capital of their future state, would not be included in the next Israeli transfer. It is in an area that is now under Palestinian civilian control and Israeli military control, and it presumably would be turned over to the Palestinians under a final accord.
"It raises the whole conversation about Jerusalem prematurely on the Israeli agenda," he said, "and I don't think it's useful from the Palestinian point of view either."
Mr. Eran said there was a "growing understanding" on the issues involved, and he characterized the talks as frank. He said the posturing that was often the public face of the negotiations -- the assertions that progress is not being made or that starting positions cannot be altered -- did not go on behind closed doors.
Mr. Eran also said that one point of "proximity" was that both sides agreed that an international agency "or mechanism" would have to handle the Palestinian refugee issue, including compensation. But there is no agreement on whether Palestinian refugees have the right of return to Israel. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); JORDAN (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (70%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; WEST BANK; JERUSALEM; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); JORDAN (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (70%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES PEACE PROCESS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (79%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); DEFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); 

PERSON: ERAN, ODED; SONTAG, DEBORAH; ARAFAT, YASIR EHUD BARAK (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



618 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
Guarding the President's Words and, Maybe, His Legacy

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

 BODY:
J. TERRY EDMONDS is the keeper of the disk.
With just days to go before President Clinton delivers the final State of Union speech of his presidency, there is a scramble among aides and outsiders to insert a paragraph, a sentence or even a fleeting phrase into the final text. 
 Mr. Edmonds, as the president's chief speechwriter, is the guardian of the computer disk containing the speech's latest draft and the coordinator of the policy proposals, accolades, reflections and humorous asides that will pop up on Thursday night on Mr. Clinton's teleprompter.
"We are being lobbied, assaulted, bombarded, beseeched from all quarters -- from within the White House, from the agencies, even from outside," Mr. Edmonds said. "Some little old lady called up from somewhere and said, 'How can I get something in the State of the Union?' We were like, 'Wow, how did you get our number?' "
This will be Mr. Clinton's last State of the Union speech, and unlike the most recent two, which were delivered in moments of political crisis, will be delivered at a time when everyone's attention is shifting toward the election. That is all part of the challenge for Mr. Edmonds, who became director of speechwriting in August 1999, overseeing a staff of five speechwriters handling domestic policy.
But there also is a touch of personal history at work here.
As the only speechwriter in the White House who is African-American -- and as far as administration officials know, the first black person ever to fill the role -- he says he is "aware of the historic significance of what I'm doing."
"It was amazing to me to discover I was the first African-American speechwriter to work in the White House," Mr. Edmonds said. "I hope I'm not the last. But once you get in there and once you are inundated by the pace and demands of the job, historic significances take a back seat to immediate actions."
Mr. Edmonds, 49, became speechwriter for Donna E. Shalala, the secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, in 1993 after a long career in public relations.
At first, he tried to mimic the cadences of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in Ms. Shalala's speeches. It was a less than perfect fit.
"I quickly learned that she was not Martin Luther King," Mr. Edmonds said. "You really have to write to the style of the person who you're writing for."
He moved to the White House in 1995 after drafting a well-received sample speech for the president's advisers.
From an office in the Old Executive Office Building, Mr. Edmonds has relished the chance to handle Mr. Clinton's speeches on race relations. He wrote Mr. Clinton's speech on the day of the Million Man March in 1995, and he wrote the stirring eulogy Mr. Clinton delivered in 1996 for former Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas.
Mr. Edmonds spent much of last year working with Prof. Christopher Edley of Harvard University ghostwriting a book on race relations that Mr. Clinton intends to publish.
Mr. Edmonds does not have to do any research to describe vividly the many people left behind in this booming economy.
He grew up in a housing project in Baltimore. He never knew his father. He spent time in a foster home. He arrived home one day to see the family's possessions tossed out on the curb after an eviction. "There were some rough times as we were growing up," he says simply.
To write a president's words well, one must believe in the leader. Mr. Edmonds does. During the heat of impeachment, he wrote a letter to Essence magazine sticking up for his embattled boss.
Mr. Edmonds, who is married and has a college-age daughter, recounted how the president called him in the hospital in 1998 when his wife, Antoinette, had suffered a massive stroke.
"When my family, when my country were in our darkest hours, Bill Clinton was there for us," he wrote. "I, for one, think that counts for something."
Without any slight intended on the president, Mr. Edmonds does acknowledge that the times of awe-inspiring oratory from public leaders may have passed. One cause, Mr. Edmonds said, is the sheer number of speeches presidents give. President Harry S. Truman gave 88 speeches in 1949. In 1997, according to data compiled by Mr. Edmonds, Mr. Clinton gave 545 speeches.
"I do think that President Clinton, when he's on, can give a great speech but he has to speak so much on so many different issues that don't lend themselves to high oratory," Mr. Edmonds said. "Releasing the Thanksgiving Day turkey is not going to sound like Martin Luther King."
MR. EDMONDS would not discuss any of the announcements that Mr. Clinton will make in his address on Thursday. He did offer this much about the contents of that disk. The speech will be long.
But it will not be a farewell address. "He is an activist president and has vowed to be one until his last day," Mr. Edmonds said.
Mr. Edmonds refused to take credit for any lines, describing the process as a collaborative one that ultimately hinges on what flashes through Mr. Clinton's mind when he stands up to give his speech.
"President Clinton is very prone to veer from the written script," Mr. Edmonds said. "If you're sitting there waiting for him to give you your words back, you may be waiting a very long time. He almost invariably improvises. And I'm not proud to admit that he usually makes the speeches better."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: J. Terry Edmonds is President Clinton's chief speechwriter. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BLACKS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES US PRESIDENTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (86%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (86%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); EDMONDS, J TERRY; LACEY, MARC BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



619 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Hazel Wolf, 101; Fought for the Environment

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

 BODY:
Hazel Wolf, an ardent environmentalist whose life spanned the 20th century and whose causes encompassed the era's social turmoil, died in Port Angeles, Wash., on Wednesday. She was 101 and lived in Seattle.
Since the early 1960's Ms. Wolf was a leader in the Audubon Society, serving as secretary of the Seattle chapter for 37 years and helping to establish 21 of the 26 Audubon chapters in Washington. She was also active in the Federation of Western Outdoor Clubs, as its one-time president and as editor of its newsletter until her death. 
 Born in the 19th century, Ms. Wolf had long spoken of wanting to witness the 21st. She told the oral historian Studs Terkel, who profiled her in his 1995 book "Coming of Age," that she intended to live until the year 2000. "Then I'm going," she said.
Especially in the Seattle region, but also beyond, she was elder stateswoman in a community of intersecting social causes, recognized by the Association of Biologists and Ecologists of Nicaragua for conservation work there, by the Washington Physicians for Social Responsibility with their Paul Beeson Peace Award, by the National Audubon Society with its medal of excellence and last year by Seattle with its Spirit of America Award.
But long before the environmental movement blossomed, providing a cause that made her celebrated in her later years, Ms. Wolf was steeped in struggles over human rights, communism, labor issues, peace, feminism and immigration.
Hazel Anna Cummings Anderson was born on March 10, 1898, in Victoria, British Columbia. Her father was Canadian and her mother was American. After separating from her first husband, Edward Dalziel, she moved to the United States in 1923 with her daughter, finding work as a legal secretary, her lifelong career.
She joined the Communist Party during the Depression, attracted by its support for social welfare programs like food subsidies, unemployment aid and social security.
Her first party meeting, she recalled in a speech years later, was at a home where the local sheriff was at that moment trying to evict a family. "I joined in what was occurring," she said. "As the sheriff's men brought the furniture out to pile it on the sidewalk, the rest of us picked it up and took it into the house by the back door. This went on for quite a while until the sheriff and his men, who were not very enthusiastic in the first place, left in despair and frustration."
Ms. Wolf said she lost interest in the party during World War II, as the wartime boom made issues of economic security less compelling to her. But years after she left the party, the government tried to expel her, starting a personal and legal struggle that shaped her life. That fight lasted 15 years, as McCarthyism rose and fell. She once joked that a lawyer she worked for at the time spent so much effort on her case that it was not clear who was working for whom.
The experience led her into advocacy for the rights of immigrants, a cause she never gave up. "The foreign born were the earliest victims of the McCarthy witch hunt," she said 10 years ago in a talk to a high school class. "They still have a hard and uncertain life."
In that lecture, as on many other occasions, Ms. Wolf recounted being thrown in jail briefly in 1958, charged with sedition though she had left the Communist Party 13 years before. She told the two other women in her jail cell that she had been accused of conspiring to overthrow the government by violent means. "What a wonderful idea," one of her fellow prisoners said.
"I never did try to overthrow the government, or if I did, I didn't do a very good job," Ms. Wolf said.
But her associates said she never gave up trying to overthrow whatever she saw as unjust, whether it was the behavior of big corporations or the policies of the United States in Nicaragua. Her reputation grew, and she became a frequent public speaker (many of her speeches can be found on the World Wide Web at members.tripod.com/HazelWolf). Only a broken hip prevented her from joining the protests by unions and environmentalists in Seattle during the recent meeting of the World Trade Organization, said Brock Evans, president of the Western Outdoor Clubs.
"One of her major causes was always for labor to join with environmentalists," he said. Another was for environmentalists to include Native Americans, blacks, Hispanics and other minority groups in their movement.
"People gang up to protect all kinds of things -- civil liberties, freedom of speech," Ms. Wolf once wrote. "It's in our genes to gang up. Anytime we want anything, we gang up."
Summing up her many causes, she told the American Immigration Lawyers Association last year, "We lost most of the battles but we won the war in all of them."
She told them insouciantly that when she finally became an American citizen in 1974, after taking the oath and forswearing allegiance to foreign potentates, she went to a bar to celebrate with friends. "I proposed the following toast: 'To hell with Queen Elizabeth and to hell with Richard Nixon, too.' "
She is survived by her daughter, Nydia Levick of Port Angeles, five grandchildren, five great-grandchildren and four great-great grandchildren. Her second marriage, to Herbert Wolf, also ended in divorce.
Ms. Wolf was already at most people's retirement age when a friend persuaded her to join the Audubon Society in the early 1960's. It was the era when Rachel Carson was warning that pesticides and the eradication of habitats were threatening the earth with a silent spring with no song birds, but more than that book or her friend's arm-twisting, it was bird-watching (specifically, observing a brown creeper grubbing in the woods) that sparked her deep involvement with Audubon. For decades more, she continued to go to the woods for inspiration and to urge others along the environmental path.
But she spiced her advocacy with a dollop of salt. In a speech last year on saving the endangered salmon of the Pacific Northwest, she reminded her Seattle University audience of the first reason to do so: the fish are "good to eat."
And in a speech on sustainable forestry practices in 1998, she said her goal was not, as she quoted the poet, to "spare that tree, cut not a single bough," but rather to make sure there would always be forests for wild creatures and to provide homes, furniture, paper and "probably even skateboards."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hazel Wolf was honored in January 1999 during the State of the State address of Gov. Gary Locke of Washington. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (95%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (84%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (84%); PHYSICIANS FOR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (55%); PHYSICIANS FOR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (84%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (84%); PHYSICIANS FOR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (55%); PHYSICIANS FOR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (95%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); MILLENNIUM (78%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (67%); BIOLOGY (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); EVICTION (64%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (64%); FOOD CHARITIES (62%); SHERIFFS (61%); WORLD WAR II (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (53%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: WOLF, HAZEL; CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR GARY LOCKE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



620 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: Precious Rooms, Even Where Rent Is Low;
For Apartment Hunters on a Budget, a Tough Task Is Even Tougher

BYLINE: By BARBARA STEWART 

 BODY:
Nobody could accuse Martha Arroyo, a 22-year-old store clerk and mother from the Bronx, of being too picky in hunting for an apartment.
"I've gone looking in the ghetto," said Ms. Arroyo, who has been searching for the last year. "I've gone into places where drugs are sold, and even there it's too expensive. Something that looks like my mother's kitchen is $550, and they want a deposit and everything." 
 During that time, Ms. Arroyo, her boyfriend, Raymond Diaz, and their two toddlers have been staying with her parents on Prospect Avenue in the Bronx. All four are sharing Ms. Arroyo's childhood bedroom, with 1-year-old Elise in a crib and Raymond, 2, sleeping in his parents' bed.
The family once spent four months living in a homeless shelter, an experience Ms. Arroyo is determined not to repeat. Until a few weeks ago, both she and Mr. Diaz had jobs, and made a net income of about $1,700 a month. Mr. Diaz, who works full time as a janitorial supervisor at a hospital, makes $1,200 a month. Ms. Arroyo supplemented that with about $500 a month from her part-time job at a Radio Shack in the Bronx, a job she lost early this month.
Their goal is hardly excessive: a one-bedroom apartment in the Bronx for $500 to $550 a month. Over the months, Ms. Arroyo said, she has unearthed about 20 such apartments in her price range, but each time has lost out to somebody else. "It's discouraged me so bad," she said.
New York City's skyrocketing rents are discouraging to just about anybody looking for an apartment. But for low-income working residents, finding an affordable place to live is especially difficult. Not only were the apartments that Ms. Arroyo and Mr. Diaz looked at too expensive, they were often tiny, poorly maintained and vermin-ridden.
A number of factors have converged to make the daunting task of finding a $500- to $550-a-month apartment -- about the lowest that one-bedrooms are going for anywhere in the city -- particularly difficult. The supply of subsidized housing has diminished sharply, the result of cuts in government money for low-income housing and the sale of city-owned residential buildings to private owners. Scores of single-room-occupancy buildings that once housed single poor people have been converted to $100-a-night tourist hotels, said Joshua Goldfein, a lawyer at the Legal Aid Society's Homeless Rights Project. There is an eight-year wait for government rental vouchers or an apartment in a subsidized building, city officials said.
Paradoxically, what is hurting apartment hunters of all economic levels is prosperity, which continues to push up rents. In Park Slope, Brooklyn, long one of the most popular alternatives for people who do not want to pay high Manhattan rents, a one-bedroom that rented for $1,000 five years ago is now going for $1,600, said James Karangelen, a sales agent at Marilyn A. Donahue Real Estate. In the lower-middle-class neighborhoods of Pelham Bay and Throgs Neck in the Bronx, one-bedroom apartments that rented for $500 to $600 a month in 1995 are now renting for $700 to $800, not including heat. And in the South Bronx, one of least expensive areas in the city, the $400 to $450 one-bedrooms now rent for $550 to $625. And vacancies are scarce throughout the city.
For low-income people, it means squeezing in with relatives. Housing advocates say they are seeing a sharp increase in serious overcrowding, in one-bedroom apartments with four or more people -- usually a young mother and her children staying with relatives.
So apartment hunters like Ms. Arroyo are scouring the classified ads, going block by block or relying on word of mouth from friends and relatives. After moving back to New York from Ocala, Fla., a few years ago, her family spent four months in a homeless shelter before moving in with Ms. Arroyo's parents.
"My sister took me in her car on Saturdays," Ms. Arroyo said of their apartment search. "We looked from 7 in the morning to 5 in the evening. She got so tired. We drove and looked and looked and looked."
She sent a letter to get onto the city's waiting list for subsidized housing, but never received a reply. "So I called Ferrer's office," she said, referring to the Bronx borough president, Fernando Ferrer. "I got back a letter acknowledging my application. But I've been on this waiting list for three years."
Others in search of apartments, like Selima Penn, a single mother, have sought the help of professional real estate agents. In her case, she turned to Linda Stevens, who makes her living trying to match people without much money with low-rent apartments in the Bronx.
And clients like Ms. Penn are increasingly common. Ms. Penn, 41, moved back to New York from Atlanta about two years ago. She and her husband, who had moved to Atlanta when her company transferred her job there, had bought a house in the suburbs there and wound up deeply in debt. Her husband lost his job, the marriage fell apart, and Ms. Penn accepted a buyout from MetLife, her employer of 17 years, to pay off her debts. She then moved back to New York, pregnant and planning to start over again. But she could not find work, and had to move with her two small daughters into her mother-in-law's one-bedroom apartment in the Bronx.
She got a job with the city in March, and commutes daily to Brooklyn from the Bronx. The crowded home she returns to is frequently tense, she said.
"My mother-in-law sleeps on the floor on a foam rubber mattress," she said. "I sleep in her room with my 4-year-old. Her sister, my 2-year-old, sleeps with grandma. And grandma's 15-year-old daughter sleeps on a Murphy bed.
"I've been going block to block," she said of her two years of searching. "One place I could afford had no hot water and no heat. I saw an open house in Brooklyn in a newspaper. I went, and they wanted $185 to get on some kind of list. It was weird; that's a lot of money to spend to get to look at something you might not even get. Two places, I spent $35 each for them to tell me I had bad credit. I already know that. It's like walking into a brick wall."
So she enlisted Ms. Stevens, whom she heard about from a friend. Ms. Stevens's clients typically come to her from private agencies like the Coalition for the Homeless, from city agencies like the Homeless Diversion Program, or from friends. Her fee is one month's rent, often paid by the city's homeless or welfare agencies. Her office is a desk in her Pelham Park apartment. A few weeks ago, Ms. Stevens gave Ms. Penn the phone number of James Destin, who showed her a one-bedroom in one of the buildings in Harlem he inherited from his father.
"It's a brownstone," Ms. Penn said, "with a big room in the back for the girls. It's clean with big closets and well kept," she said. And at $550 a month, within her price range.
For Ms. Stevens, matching clients with apartments has sort of become a personal calling. "I know what it's like; I've been there," Ms. Stevens said. "I'm an advocate for them. I put on my boxing gloves every morning. The agencies that refer the clients to me are the same ones that aren't helping them."
Some years ago, after a divorce, Ms. Stevens had to go on welfare to support her son and daughter. During that time, she got her real estate broker's license and found an apartment for a woman who had been evicted. "She told everybody about me. They started referring so many people from the E.A.U.," the city's Emergency Assistance Unit. "I thought, maybe this is my calling."
But very few low-income apartment hunters turn to the city or real estate agents for help. Like Marlyn Matias, 25, and Oswaldo Rivera, they search alone, after work and on weekends. Ms. Matias, a theater major at Lehman College who works at The Point, a nonprofit community organization in Hunts Point, the Bronx, and Mr. Rivera, a poet who works at Youth Ministries in the Bronx, are looking to move from a one-bedroom in a five-story walkup in the South Bronx because of electricity and maintenance problems.
Even with a combined income of about $40,000, which would allow them to spend $700 a month on rent, they are having trouble finding anything better than what they now have, which is $525 a month. "All I can find are ridiculous, crummy places for ridiculous prices like $900," she said. "It's like all the buildings are for older people with more money."
Ms. Matias says they became so discouraged they quit looking. "It's a very difficult task, and I work and go to school," she said. "I can't take any more time off right now. We're just putting up with what we have. What else can we do?"
For Ms. Arroyo and Mr. Diaz, the task has become even more difficult. She must find another job before resuming her search for an apartment. With the loss of her income, the elusive goal of a home for her family has receded even further, and it is likely that she and her family will be staying with her parents for months, and perhaps years, to come.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Oswaldo Rivera and Marlyn Matias, above, had hoped to move from their apartment in the South Bronx, but despite a combined income of $40,000, they gave up trying. (Richard Perry/The New York Times); Linda Stevens, right, working in her home office with her son, helps workers find low-rent homes. She sympathizes, she said, because she has "been there." (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RSH (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: RADIOSHACK CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; SHORTAGES; RENTING AND LEASING HOMELESSNESS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); CITIES (68%); LEGAL AID (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); 

PERSON: STEWART, BARBARA RICK PERRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



621 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: McCall Gingerly Lays Foundation for 2002 Governor's Race

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 23

 BODY:
H. Carl McCall has a reputation as a most cautious politician. So as he contemplates the most incautious of acts, challenging a popular incumbent governor, he is going about it in the most cautious way -- starting almost three years before the election.
In the last two weeks, Mr. McCall, the state comptroller, has laid the groundwork for a run for governor in 2002 with a seriousness that has impressed even those who question his nerve. He has established a campaign committee, opened a Web site and begun a concerted, very early attempt to lock up the support of all the Democrats who matter and head off any potential primary challenger. 
 "I am going through a process of assessing a candidacy, and to date the indications are very, very positive," Mr. McCall, a Democrat, said on Friday in his first interview on the subject. He said he needed to begin now to raise the $15 million to $20 million he estimates he will need for the campaign.
In a letter sent to hundreds of elected officials and other prominent Democrats over the weekend, Mr. McCall's committee said, "While he will not make an announcement until later this year, Carl has begun making plans to run for governor in 2002."
Democratic elected officials and strategists say that Mr. McCall's jump on the race is aimed at positioning him to take on not only Gov. George E. Pataki, the Republican incumbent who has hinted that he will seek a third term, but also a fellow Democrat, Andrew M. Cuomo, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development and son of former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
Andrew Cuomo says he may run for governor, though he could have a prominent role in the White House if his friend, Vice President Al Gore, wins the presidency.
Mr. McCall conceded that one reason for starting so early is "to develop the kind of support so that there's the possibility of avoiding a primary," though he insisted that he had no particular opponent in mind.
As for whether he expects Mr. Pataki or Mr. Cuomo to run, he said: "I have no idea. My efforts and my final decision will have nothing to do with any other candidate in a primary or in a general election."
One Democrat who has been talked about as a potential candidate, Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer, took himself out of the running in an interview on Friday by endorsing Mr. McCall. "I will be 100 percent behind his effort to get the nomination and to get elected," Mr. Spitzer said. "I think Carl is the best candidate."
Between now and the 2002 election, there will be contests for the United States Senate, for president and for mayor of New York City, yet the talk among the state's Democratic political strategists is of the race for governor, and in particular, of a McCall-Cuomo primary.
The contest offers enough rich story lines to fill a gothic novel. Mr. McCall, the first black person elected to statewide office in New York and the state's first serious black candidate for governor, would be expected to energize the black vote and draw money from black contributors around the country. Mr. Cuomo would be seen as seeking to avenge himself against Mr. Pataki, who defeated his father in 1994. And there is history aplenty: Mario Cuomo wanted Mr. McCall as his running mate in 1982, but Mr. McCall lost the primary for lieutenant governor to Alfred B. Del Bello.
A sure sign of Mr. Cuomo's interest came on Friday, when a reporter received a number of unsolicited calls from people close to him -- a Cuomo aide, a political consultant and a few politicians -- saying that they had heard the reporter was working on an article about Mr. McCall and the 2002 race, and offering to weigh in.
One caller, Mayor Gerald D. Jennings of Albany, said he had heard about the article "from some people in Washington," and added that while he had not endorsed anyone, "there are a lot of positives that Andrew has."
In an interview, Mr. Cuomo himself said: "I think we should focus on the foreseeable future. We have two very important goals. One is to elect the next president of the United States and the other is to elect the next senator from New York. That should be the focus of the Democratic Party. There's plenty of time for the governor's race. This is a very early start for a political contest that's basically three years away."
Though polls show Mr. Cuomo faring better than Mr. McCall in hypothetical matchups against Mr. Pataki, most Democratic strategists interviewed said they thought Mr. McCall, assuming he raised enough money, would defeat Mr. Cuomo in a primary, mostly because of heavy support from black and Hispanic voters. Political analysts say that based on the experience of black candidates in other states, race could hurt Mr. McCall in a general election, though how much is anyone's guess.
"McCall's intentions right now are to close everybody else in the party out, to line up support early and line up money early," said Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic political consultant who does not have strong ties to either Mr. McCall or Mr. Cuomo. "The specter of Andrew Cuomo will always be looking over his shoulder, but I would expect him to beat Cuomo. McCall should certainly be competitive against Pataki, too."
For Mr. McCall, the challenge now is to persuade Democrats that he is serious about this race, and that he will make the kind of all-out effort that a statewide campaign demands -- and that he is not known for. All this at an age, 64, when most people are thinking about retirement, though he looks and seems a decade younger. (Mr. Cuomo is 42, and his supporters make it clear that if he ran, they would make his youth and energy an issue.)
Democrats have grumbled for years that Mr. McCall was too unwilling to attack Mr. Pataki. Black politicians complained that he did not identify with the issues of concern to their community -- it was only after considerable lobbying that he joined hundreds of others in being arrested in protests after the police shooting of Amadou Diallo last year.
But the most damning and frequent criticism of Mr. McCall is that he does not have the fire needed for a real contest. After months spent publicly weighing a run against Mr. Pataki in 1998, he declined. He passed up the chance to run for the Senate this year, before Hillary Rodham Clinton's name had been floated, even after Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan said that Mr. McCall would be his preferred successor.
"In '98, I had only served one term, George Pataki had $20 million, the economy was good and he was very strong," Mr. McCall said. As for the Senate race, he said: "I've devoted my energy to New York State, to executive positions. The Senate wasn't some place I wanted to go, start from the beginning."
Mr. McCall certainly has the kind of resume that makes for an attractive candidate: son of a single welfare mother graduates from Dartmouth and becomes a high school teacher and an ordained minister in the United Church of Christ, is elected to the State Senate from Manhattan, is appointed United States ambassador to the United Nations, serves as a vice president of Citicorp, and becomes president of the New York City Board of Education. His wife, Dr. Joyce F. Brown, a former deputy mayor, is president of the Fashion Institute of Technology.
Chosen by the Legislature in 1993 to fill the vacant comptroller's office, he won it in his own right in 1994 and 1998. In that job, he has sole control of investments made by the $120 billion state pension fund, making him probably the single biggest investor in the world and thus a prominent figure in the world of high finance, where he has won generally high marks. In state government, he has espoused prudence so often that Democrats chide him that he sounds more like a Republican.
Mr. McCall has had a diffident relationship with the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, who is closer to Mr. Cuomo, but most strategists do not think that would pose a real threat if Mr. McCall proved to be a serious candidate. Mr. Silver's office declined to comment for this article.
For now, all signs are that Mr. McCall means to do what it will take to mount a serious campaign. He has a well-known antipathy to fund-raising and has taken more than a year off from it. (He has $72,000 in his campaign treasury, to more than $2 million for Mr. Pataki.) But he has hired Shawn Thompson, a former fund-raiser for the Assembly's Democratic majority, and has scheduled two fund-raising events next month.
He has gathered an impressive roster of backers, including Mr. Spitzer; Representative Charles B. Rangel; the Assembly majority leader, Michael J. Bragman, a power in the Assembly and in central New York; Assemblyman Roberto Ramirez, the Bronx Democratic chairman; Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr., the Manhattan chairman; and Assemblyman Clarence Norman Jr., the Brooklyn chairman.
Still, there remains the nagging question: why would a cautious politician leave a job in which he is courted by financiers from every part of the world, for an arduous and uncertain campaign? Mr. McCall said, "You just can't do the same thing forever."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: State Comptroller H. Carl McCall in Manhattan on Friday with another organized but unannounced political candidate, Hillary Rodham Clinton. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); CITIES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (67%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) ANDREW CUOMO (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



622 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: The Bell Rings but the Students Stay, and Stay

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN 

 BODY:
The revolution begins at 3 p.m.
Every afternoon, in thousands of schools across America, students are staying after the final bell. They file back into cafeterias for a snack, then filter through classrooms conducting science experiments and creating art projects. They play, but they also study. By the time they go home, the sun has already faded. 
 The explosion in after-school programs -- federal financing alone has ballooned to $454 million this year from $1 million in 1997 -- represents nothing less than a reimagining of the school day for the first time in generations, as educators and policymakers seek to respond to the realities of working families and what may be missing from the classroom.
The lofty goal, says the Afterschool Alliance, a coalition of businesses, foundations and the federal government, is for every American child to have access to high-quality programs by the end of the decade.
"How many hours does it take to truly help a child learn and grow in today's society?" asked Jennifer Davis, executive director of Boston 2 to 6, one of the programs sprouting in communities across the country. "It's no longer enough to just have a school day."
With 78 percent of mothers of school-age children in the work force, and welfare reform pushing more into jobs, millions of children are on their own between 3 p.m. and 6 p.m., the hours when youth are most likely to commit crime -- or be victimized by it. At the same time, the public is increasingly frustrated with school failures, worried about poor performance on standardized tests and that the renewed emphasis on basic skills has squeezed out enrichment programs like music and gym.
Typically offered free but with required attendance in poor urban areas, the burgeoning after-school programs in some ways try to mimic the suburban activity calendar in which the children of cul-de-sacs are shuttled from piano lessons to soccer practice, with time for tutoring and play dates in between. They also imitate the schedules of elite boarding schools, keeping students scheduled until dark with experiential learning and athletics -- an agenda laced with academics, yet distinct from what happens during the day.
"If you give kids more time to learn," said Adriana DeKanter, the adviser to the United States Secretary of education for after-school issues, "they're going to learn more."
In Boston, teenagers cook sophisticated meals or stage mock trials after apprenticeships with volunteer chefs and lawyers. In the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles, children built a miniature golf course. About 500,000 students in 1,000 school districts in 45 states are using curriculums like "Time Warp Egypt" and "Do Cows Eat Sunshine?" that were designed by the Smithsonian Institution with Voyager Expanded Learning, a company based in Dallas.
Up to $5 billion in public and private money is being spent annually on after-school programs, and estimates on how many students are involved range from two million to five million. The programs have mostly blossomed in underprivileged area, but experts think they will soon spread to middle-class suburbs.
While the notion of keeping idle youngsters out of trouble with meaningful activities has universal appeal, some critics frown at the notion of the government, rather than families, being responsible for children for more hours each day. Considering the shortcomings of public schools, others are skeptical about expanding their reach -- will more time just produce more failure?
"It's got to be a lot more than just baby-sitting," said Herbert Sturz, chairman of the After School Corporation, an initiative funded largely by George Soros which, by next month, will have programs serving 26,000 students in 100 New York schools. At the same time, warned Gil Noam, a professor of medicine and education at Harvard, "we have to be very careful not to overprogram," because it is "very important just to kind of have downtime where kids can be together."
At P.S. 130 in the Bronx, the after-school program is centered on a production of "The Wiz," which took the stage last week. Focusing on the musical's themes of home and family, the elementary-school students did research projects about Kansas, drew maps and built cardboard houses modeled on Dorothy's, while also rehearsing songs and dances and painting a backdrop for the set.
One recent afternoon, Washington Chavez, a local artist, led a group of second-graders through a lesson about detail as they outlined the yellow-brick road, as Tamik Davis, who is in fourth grade, tumbled across the auditorium practicing the tornado dance.
"Children that are very quiet and very shy are being more expressive," said Juliet McBride, a reading teacher at the school who also works in the after-school program. "You can see it in their self-esteem. You can see it in their grades."
A variety of small-scale studies have shown that enrollment in after-school programs, particularly through grade 3, helps boost attendance and reduce behavior problems during the school day, and even improves academic performance in class and on standardized tests. Surveys done for the After School Corporation suggest that students in the programs are more likely to finish their homework, read, use computers and feel comfortable solving math problems, while their parents report being able to work more hours while also developing closer relationships with their children's schools.
In Chicago, where youngsters with low test scores, about 237,000 of them, are required to attend the Lighthouse after-school program, 89 percent of those enrolled saw their scores rise. In the Cabrini Green housing project, the portion of students at the Jenner Academy for the arts who meet the national average has jumped to 21 percent from 14 percent in reading and to 29 percent from 15 percent in math, since Lighthouse began.
"In some of the homes, there's either no parents to help with homework, or parents may not be capable," said Blondean Davis, Chicago's chief of schools and regents. When the city began mandatory homework in 1996, Dr. Davis said, "parents wrote to us and said, 'How do I help with inversion of fractions? What do I know about calculus?' The focus of Lighthouse is on the reading, the math, and the homework assistance."
But as the after-school movement skyrockets, with at least 26 states planning to increase funding, along with countless cities, school districts, foundations and private companies, questions abound about how to structure curriculum and recruit and train staff. Many doubt the After School Corporation's estimate that high-quality programs can cost just $1,000 per child, pegging it closer to $1,800 (the Children's Defense Fund puts it as high as $3,000). And summer programs, the obvious next step in needy neighborhoods, are even more complex and expensive.
There is widespread agreement that the new after-school programs should be situated in schools, rather than the old model of the Y.M.C.A., to take advantage of insured public facilities sitting empty, give the added hours an academic air and help schools become community hubs. Most, though, think they are best run not by school districts and teachers but by neighborhood institutions -- the Dance Theater of Harlem, the Children's Museum of Boston, or community-development organizations -- able to bring something beyond books.
Nearly all the programs contain a homework or tutoring component, but the other hours are filled with recreation, adventure, or artistic activities. The federal government provides a free snack.
"If we extend the day, it cannot be more of the same," said Deborah Lowe Vandell, a professor of educational psychology at the University of Wisconsin who is perhaps the nation's leading researcher on after-school programs.
Eric Schwarz, cofounder of Citizen Schools, the apprenticeship program in Boston, said the key is to replace the "drill and kill" approach of the test-focused classroom with something that will "allow kids to learn and have fun at the same time."
One major issue is who should staff the programs. Some places, like Chicago, use only teachers or retired teachers, but most say that is unrealistic because of burnout, or simply too costly. Instead, programs recruit lower-level school employees, college or high school students, local artists and musicians and even unemployed people from nearby neighborhoods, usually offering $6 to $15 an hour. Turnover is brisk.
"Children need adults to help them grow up successfully," said Carla Sanger, director of L.A.'s Best, whose employees typically come from the low-income neighborhoods where the schools are situated and go through extensive training. "Good adult supervision requires a lot of generosity. That's not always intuitive. We have to build what that means among staff."
At P.S. 130, Rosetta Price is a cafeteria worker by day, a counselor in the after-school program. She has a special rapport with the children she leads in games and helps to make glittery pins out of bow-tie pasta; they relate to her in a different way than to their more highly educated teachers.
Parents are often in the classroom as well, either as volunteer helpers or as paid counselors.
Attendance is good -- better than in a pure reading program aimed at weaker students in the school -- and the children seem thrilled with the array of activities.
"At home, all you do is watch TV -- over here you do more stuff," said Giovanni Vicenti, 8, as he squirmed in his small chair in Ms. Price's class. "You get to do art, you get to paint, you get to do plays."
The children said they finish all their homework during the after-school program, so in the evening, they are free to play.
"I used to go home and be bored," said Nieka Williams, another 8-year-old. "It's fun here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Children at P.S. 130 in the Bronx, painting scenery for "The Wiz," a broadway musical, in a program that uses its themes as a learning tool. The students have researched Kansas and learned songs and dances. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. A18)
 
Chart: "Continued Learning After School Nationwide"
 
The After School Corporation
New York
 
Program: Homework help, community-based curriculums with local cultural organizations.
Size: By Feb. 1, 100 schools serving 26,000 students.
Funding: George Soros pledged $25 million a year for five years on the condition of a 3 to 1 match from other sources.
 
Boston 2 to 6
Boston
 
Program: Range of curriculums provided by community organizations.
Size: 57 elementary and middle schools, 17,000 students.
Funding: City spending $10 million.
 
Voyager Expanded Learning
Nationwide
 
Program: Adventure-based curriculums.
Size: 1,000 school districts in 45 states, 500,000 students.
Funding: School districts pay $150 per child and pay staff. Most use grants from the government or foundations.
 
L.A.'s Best
Los Angeles
 
Program: Homework, cognitive skill development and recreational activities.
Size: By end of February, 62 schools, 10,000 students.
Funding: $9 million a year, from government and private sources.
 
The Lighthouse
Chicago
 
Program: Mandatory for students with low test scores. Emphasis on reading and math.
Size: 363 elementary schools, 237,000 students.
Funding: $18 million a year, most from city.
 
Leadership Education and Athletics in Partnership
Cities in Connecticut
 
Program: Reading, community service, conflict management and cultural activities.
Size: 11 programs, most in schools, serving 1,200 children.
Funding: $5 million a year from state and federal government and foundations. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 130 (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFTERSCHOOL ALLIANCE THE LIGHTHOUSE (59%); THE LIGHTHOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFTERSCHOOL ALLIANCE THE LIGHTHOUSE (59%); THE LIGHTHOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); CHILDREN (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOCCER (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); PARENTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FAMILY (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (73%); LABOR FORCE (70%); SPORTS (68%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); GOLF (60%); 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI GEORGE SOROS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2000



623 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Net at American Express Increases 14%

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The American Express Company said yesterday that its fourth-quarter profit jumped 14.3 percent, to $606 million, powered by growth in customer spending and fees from managing money.
The New York-based company, known for its signature green charge card and travelers checks, also said it would split its shares three for one. 
 The company earned $1.33 a diluted share in the quarter, up from $1.16 a share, or $530 million, in the fourth quarter of 1998 and in line with Wall Street estimates, according to the tracking service First Call/Thomson Financial.
Fourth-quarter results included a $74 million pretax charge to settle lawsuits related to past insurance and annuity sales. Insurers have paid billions of dollars to settle similar suits over reportedly deceptive sales practices.
Shares of American Express, one of the 30 companies making up the Dow Jones industrial average, were up 75 cents, to $152.75, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The long-running economic boom, coupled with a rise in the number of retailers that accept American Express cards, helped lift profits in the quarter. Customers spent more money and the number of charge cards in circulation also rose.
The company also started a new Internet card known as the Blue card at the beginning of September, to tap the rapid growth of online shopping.
American Express had 46 million cards in circulation at the end of 1999, up 8 percent from a year ago.
Net revenue rose 14.6 percent, to $5.23 billion in the quarter from $4.56 billion in 1998.
For the year, American Express earned a record $2.48 billion, up 16 percent, on $19.5 billion in revenue.
Its travel-related services division, which includes its charge card business, earned $375 million in the quarter, up from $326 million in 1998. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (AXP) AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (AXP)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STOCK SPLITS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); ANNUITIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



624 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Croatia Is Looking at a Runoff on Feb. 7

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Tuesday, Jan. 25

 BODY:
A witty former Communist leader took a commanding lead in voting on Monday to replace the late president of Croatia, Franjo Tudjman. But results early this morning mean that a runoff will be necessary between the two top finishers.
The runoff, on Feb. 7, will be between the front-runner, Stipe Mesic, and another opposition politician, Drazen Budisa, who came in second. The winner has to gain an absolute majority of the votes cast. 
 Trailing badly in third place was Foreign Minister Mate Granic, candidate of Mr. Tudjman's once-dominant Croatian Democratic Union, which ran the country since it became independent after Tito's Yugoslavia splintered in 1991.
In results issued by the state electoral commission early this morning, with 95 percent of the votes counted, Mr. Mesic had 41.6 percent, Mr. Budisa 28 and Mr. Granic 21.7. The fourth-place finisher, Slaven Letica, an independent writer, took 4.2 percent.
All three main candidates, out of the nine who ran, promised an open, democratic Croatia, less authoritarian and fervently nationalist, with closer ties to the European Union and the United States. All also promised to dismantle part of the monarchic all-powerful presidency that Mr. Tudjman left.
"There was a lot of kitsch culture," Mr. Budisa said. "Medals, pomp, presidential guard. All of that will have to be abolished."
Mr. Tudjman's party thus suffered a second crippling defeat, having lost parliamentary elections on Jan. 3 to a six-party opposition coalition. The party was so badly wounded, after having so throughly dominated Croatia, that Mr. Granic, a moderate in the party, had pledged in the campaign to quit all his party posts if he won the election. He had ignored Western advice to run as an independent in the first place, and he suffered badly from his connection to a party beleaguered by economic difficulties, recession, an overvalued currency, high unemployment and widespread corruption.
It is highly likely that Mr. Budisa, 51, a nationalist and a former dissident, will pick up many of Mr. Granic's votes. But it will be difficult for him to deny Mr. Mesic victory next month.
Still, the nationalist strain in Croatian life is strong and will not be easily ignored by the new leaders.
Mr. Tudjman's aggressive nationalism isolated Croatia from the European mainstream. He was reluctant to cooperate fully with tribunal in The Hague that works on war crimes in the former Yugoslavia, refusing to hand over specific indictees, often on medical grounds, and Zagreb intervened in Bosnia, financing and promoting a separate Bosnian Croat entity despite formal support for the Muslim-Croat Federation that Washington demanded.
All of Mr. Tudjman's likely successors promised to cooperate more fully with the tribunal, to allow Serbian refugees who fled to return more easily and to stop meddling in Bosnia.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CROATIA (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (71%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); REFUGEES (66%); INDICTMENTS (64%); CORRUPTION (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); WAR CRIMES (60%); 

PERSON: FRANJO TUDJMAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



625 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Prices Rise ForTreasuries As Shares Slip

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices rose yesterday as stocks sank, with the move also aided by expectations that the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, would reaffirm today that the Fed will raise interest rates to rein in economic growth.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 18/32, to 93 8/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.65 percent from 6.7 percent on Friday. 
 The central bank "is going to do what it needs to do to cool off the economy and quell inflation fears," said Patrick Retzer, who this month bought bonds for the $800 million in fixed-income investments he oversees at Heartland Advisors Inc. in Milwaukee. "That's a good reason" to buy bonds, he said.
The gains in Treasuries accelerated in late trading after all three major stock indexes tumbled more than 2 percent and as crude oil and other commodities fell, traders said.
A bigger decline in stocks, after the Dow Jones industrial average rose 20 percent in the last 12 months, could fuel a Treasury rally since it would probably slow consumer spending and curb growth, said Garth Nisbet, who manages $1.8 billion in investments as chief investment officer at the Crabbe Huson Group in Portland, Ore.
"That's the trump card that bond people have," said Mr. Nisbet, who bought Treasury bonds earlier this month when yields were 6.6 percent. "Given where stock valuations are now, they can only come down. If that happens, you're going to get a real asset allocation shift" into fixed- income investments, he said.

 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of 3-month and 6-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.639	97.209	High Rate	5.38%	5.52%	Investment Rate	5.54%	5.77%	Low Rate	5.28%	5.45%	Median Rate	5.37%	5.50%	Total applied for	$28,431,775	$25,638,388	Accepted	$12,165,025	$9,691,888	Noncompetitive	$1,308,807	$1,130,918	
 
Both issues are dated Jan. 27, 2000. The three-month bills mature on April 27, 2000, and the six-month bills mature on July 27, 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks the average discounted rate, at weekly auction, of 3-Month Treasury Bills for the past four months.
(Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (71%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (56%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: HEARTLAND ADVISORS INC (70%); CRABBE HUSON GROUP INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (71%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (56%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INFLATION (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



626 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Long Island Case Sheds Light On Animal-Mutilation Videos

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: ISLIP TERRACE, N.Y.

 BODY:
When law enforcement officials searched the bedroom of a 27-year-old in this Long Island suburb one night in 1998, it was not the collection of a half-dozen semiautomatic rifles and shotguns that most unnerved them. Nor was it the poster of a Nazi storm trooper.
What stunned them, they said, were the fish tank full of mice, a pair of high heels coated with dried blood and the contents of 71 animal-mutilation videos with titles like "Vanessa's Frog Stomp" and "Debby the Destructor." 
 In one videotape, officials said, a woman's foot impaled a writhing frog with a stiletto heel. In another, a woman's hand reached down to burn a mouse with a cigarette. "In all my years on the job, I've never seen anything this sick before, this depraved," said Roy Gross of the Suffolk County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which charged the man, Thomas Capriola, with animal cruelty.
The suspect, now 29, was investigated after his ex-girlfriend called Mr. Gross's agency to say she had helped Mr. Capriola produce the videos. A trial date for the misdemeanor charge has not been set. But the case, along with a similar one in Los Angeles scheduled to go to court today, is calling attention to a subculture of animal-mutilation videos that prompted Congress to pass a law banning the sale of such films.
"We believe that these charges ultimately have very little merit to them," said Mr. Capriola's lawyer, Paul Gianelli. His client has pleaded not guilty.
But the authorities say Mr. Capriola was a maker of so-called crush videos, which cater to a male sexual fetish in which viewers become aroused by watching women, usually in high heels, stomp on small animals. Mr. Capriola, they say, filmed female friends as they killed hundreds of small animals, then sold the videos and bloodied high heels through a Web site called "Crush Goddess" and classified ads in pornographic magazines.
Crush films and videos have been made since the 1950's, but only in the last five years or so have they emerged from the underground, as advertisements for them have spread from pornographic magazines to the Internet. The Humane Society of the United States has counted about 2,000 titles since it began its monitoring in 1997. They sell for $30 to $300 each.
The videos' increased visibility has even extended to television, where "NYPD Blue" and "The Practice" have featured subplots about crush fetishists. Meanwhile, animal rights advocates have staged protests and lobbied Congress.
Richard C. Richards, a philosophy professor at California State Polytechnic University in Pomona who has studied perversions, said about 1,000 American men have the crush fetish. "I think it's wrong to demonize these things," he said. "These people won't stop. They can't. Very few of them want to."
Artwork from Pompeii shows the crush fetish may have existed as far back as ancient Rome, Mr. Richards said. But modern technology has allowed crush videomakers to sell their products on the Internet.
The law Congress passed in November makes it a federal offense to create or distribute "a depiction of animal cruelty" for "commercial gain," with penalties ranging from a fine to five years in prison. Exceptions are made for "educational" and "artistic" works. "We tried to get to the folks who are distributing these things," said Representative Elton Gallegly, a Republican from Ventura County, Calif., who introduced the bill. "Let's face it. It is an economic-driven activity."
But both Mr. Capriola and Gary Lynn Thomason, the defendant in the Los Angeles County crush video case, will not be tried under the new federal law because they were arrested before it passed. Mr. Thomason has pleaded not guilty to misdemeanor charges of animal cruelty.
Mr. Capriola's lawyer, Mr. Gianelli, has asked the judge to dismiss the case against his client on several counts, including lack of evidence and technicalities related to the search warrant, according to court records. He said Mr. Capriola would not talk about the case.If convicted, Mr. Capriola could face up to one year in jail.
Alongside the seized tapes, officials said, they found shipping records to hundreds of individuals. "If you want to go on a diet, these videos are the way to go," Mr. Gross said. "You'll lose 20 pounds after watching one of these."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (89%); ANIMAL WELFARE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PORNOGRAPHY (89%); ANIMALS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); FIREARMS (77%); MISDEMEANORS (67%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (66%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); LOBBYING (64%); PHILOSOPHY (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: THOMAS CAPRIOLA (92%); ROY GROSS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



627 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1787 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From the Supreme Court Ruling on Campaign Contribution Limits

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Supreme Court's decision today upholding Missouri's limits on campaign contributions. The vote in the case, Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC, was 6 to 3. Justice David H. Souter wrote the majority opinion. Justice Clarence Thomas wrote a dissent, as did Justice Anthony M. Kennedy. 
FROM THE DECISION
By Justice Souter
The principal issues in this case are whether Buckley v. Valeo is authority for state limits on contributions to state political candidates and whether the federal limits approved in Buckley, with or without adjustment for inflation, define the scope of permissible state limitations today. We hold Buckley to be authority for comparable state regulation, which need not be pegged to Buckley's dollars.
In 1994, the Legislature of Missouri enacted Senate Bill 650 to restrict the permissible amounts of contributions to candidates for state office. . . . Before the statute became effective, however, Missouri voters approved a ballot initiative with even stricter contribution limits, effective immediately. The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit then held the initiative's contribution limits unconstitutional under the First Amendment. . . .
The appeals court treated Missouri's claim of a compelling interest "in avoiding the corruption or the perception of corruption brought about when candidates for elective office accept large campaign contributions" as insufficient by itself to satisfy strict scrutiny. . . .
The court thought that the only evidence presented by the state, an affidavit from the co-chairman of the State Legislature's Interim Joint Committee on Campaign Finance Reform when the statute was passed, was inadequate to raise a genuine issue of material fact about the state's alleged interest in limiting campaign contributions. . . . Given the large number of states that limit political contributions, we granted certiorari to review the congruence of the Eighth Circuit's decision with Buckley. We reverse.
The matters raised in Buckley v. Valeo . . . included claims that federal campaign finance legislation infringed speech and association guarantees of the First Amendment and the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth.
The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended by the Federal Election Campaign Act Amendments of 1974, limited (and still limits) contributions by individuals to any single candidate for federal office to $1,000 per election . . . Until Buckley struck it down, the law also placed a $1,000 annual ceiling on independent expenditures linked to specific candidates . . . We found violations of the First Amendment in the expenditure regulations, but held the contribution restrictions constitutional. . . .
We then, however, drew a line between expenditures and contributions, treating expenditure restrictions as direct restraints on speech, which nonetheless suffered little direct effect from contribution limits . . . We thus said, in effect, that limiting contributions left communication significantly unimpaired.
In speaking of "improper influence" and "opportunities for abuse" in addition to "quid pro quo arrangements," we recognized a concern not confined to bribery of public officials, but extending to the broader threat from politicians too compliant with the wishes of large contributors.
These were the obvious points behind our recognition that the Congress could constitutionally address the power of money "to influence governmental action" in ways less "blatant and specific than bribery." In defending its own statute, Missouri espouses those same interests of preventing corruption and the appearance of it that flows from munificent campaign contributions. Even without the authority of Buckley, there would be no serious question about the legitimacy of the interests claimed, which, after all, underlie bribery and anti-gratuity statutes. . . . Leave the perception of impropriety unanswered, and the cynical assumption that large donors call the tune could jeopardize the willingness of voters to take part in democratic governance. Democracy works "only if the people have faith in those who govern, and that faith is bound to be shattered when high officials and their appointees engage in activities which arouse suspicions of malfeasance and corruption."
Although respondents neither challenge the legitimacy of these objectives nor call for any reconsideration of Buckley, they take the state to task, as the court of appeals did, for failing to justify the invocation of those interests with empirical evidence of actually corrupt practices or of a perception among Missouri voters that unrestricted contributions must have been exerting a covertly corrosive influence. The state statute is not void, however, for want of evidence. . . .
Buckley demonstrates that the dangers of large, corrupt contributions and the suspicion that large contributions are corrupt are neither novel nor implausible. . . .
There might, of course, be need for a more extensive evidentiary documentation if petitioners had made any showing of their own to cast doubt on the apparent implications of Buckley's evidence and the record here, but the closest respondents come to challenging these conclusions is their invocation of academic studies said to indicate that large contributions to public officials or candidates do not actually result in changes in candidates' positions.
Given the conflict among these publications, and the absence of any reason to think that public perception has been influenced by the studies cited by respondents, there is little reason to doubt that sometimes large contributions will work actual corruption of our political system, and no reason to question the existence of a corresponding suspicion among voters. . . .
In Buckley, we specifically rejected the contention that $1,000, or any other amount, was a constitutional minimum below which legislatures could not regulate. As indicated above, we referred instead to the outer limits of contribution regulation by asking whether there was any showing that the limits were so low as to impede the ability of candidates to "amass the resources necessary for effective advocacy."
We asked, in other words, whether the contribution limitation was so radical in effect as to render political association ineffective, drive the sound of a candidate's voice below the level of notice. . . .
There is no reason in logic or evidence to doubt the sufficiency of Buckley to govern this case in support of the Missouri statute. The judgment of the court of appeals is, accordingly, reversed, and the case is remanded for proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
 
FROM THE DISSENT
By Justice Thomas
In the process of ratifying Missouri's sweeping repression of political speech, the court today adopts the analytic fallacies of our flawed decision in Buckley v. Valeo. . . . Unfortunately, the court is not content to merely adhere to erroneous precedent. Under the guise of applying Buckley, the court proceeds to weaken the already enfeebled constitutional protection that Buckley afforded campaign contributions. . . .
Our decision in Buckley was in error, and I would overrule it. I would subject campaign contribution limitations to strict scrutiny, under which Missouri's contribution limits are patently unconstitutional. I begin with a proposition that ought to be unassailable: Political speech is the primary object of First Amendment protection.
The founders sought to protect the rights of individuals to engage in political speech because a self-governing people depends upon the free exchange of political information. And that free exchange should receive the most protection when it matters the most during campaigns for elective office. . . . I do not start with these foundational principles because the court openly disagrees with them. I start with them because the court today abandons them. For nearly half a century, this court has extended First Amendment protection to a multitude of forms of "speech," such as making false defamatory statements, filing lawsuits, dancing nude, exhibiting drive-in movies with nudity, burning flags and wearing military uniforms. . . . In light of the many cases of this sort, today's decision is a most curious anomaly.
In my view, the Constitution leaves it entirely up to citizens and candidates to determine who shall speak, the means they will use and the amount of speech sufficient to inform and persuade. Buckley's ratification of the government's attempt to wrest this fundamental right from citizens was error.
 
FROM THE DISSENT
By Justice Kennedy
The court's decision has lasting consequences for political speech in the course of elections, the speech upon which democracy depends. Yet in defining the controlling standard of review and applying it to the urgent claim presented, the court seems almost indifferent. Its analysis would not be acceptable for the routine case of a single protester with a hand-scrawled sign . . . or a driver who taped over the motto on his license plate because he disagreed with its message. . . .
The plain fact is that the compromise the court invented in Buckley set the stage for a new kind of speech to enter the political system. It is covert speech. The court has forced a substantial amount of political speech underground, as contributors and candidates devise ever more elaborate methods of avoiding contribution limits, limits which take no account of rising campaign costs.
To defend its extension of Buckley to present times, the court, of course, recites the dangers of corruption, or the appearance of corruption, when an interested person contributes money to a candidate. What the court does not do is examine and defend the substitute it has encouraged, covert speech funded by unlimited soft money. In my view that system creates dangers greater than the one it has replaced.
Among the facts the court declines to take into account is the emergence of cyberspace communication by which political contributions can be reported almost simultaneously with payment. The public can then judge for itself whether the candidate or the officeholder has so overstepped that we no longer trust him or her to make a detached and neutral judgment. . . .
I would overrule Buckley and then free Congress or state legislatures to attempt some new reform, if, based upon their own considered view of the First Amendment, it is possible to do so. Until any re-examination takes place, however, the existing distortion of speech caused by the half-way house we created in Buckley ought to be eliminated. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

TICKER: FR (PAR) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: VALEO SA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MISSOURI, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SUPREME COURTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTION LAW (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); CORRUPTION (87%); REFERENDUMS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); APPROVALS (77%); BALLOTS (73%); BRIBERY (71%); 

PERSON: DAVID SOUTER (88%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



628 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1887 words

HEADLINE: Car Dealers' Driveway Blues;
Pushing for a Crackdown on Sales Done Directly Online

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Jan. 24

 BODY:
Internet companies that sell cars directly to consumers are encountering stiff opposition from auto dealers, who are using their influence in state legislatures and with state regulators to protect their businesses.
Car dealers, meeting here at their annual convention, are worried that they are being undercut or bypassed entirely by the new services. They are also afraid that automakers might sell cars on the Internet themselves or through the new Internet services. So the dealers have begun pushing restrictive laws through state legislatures to prevent this and have encouraged state regulators to crack down. 
 But consumer advocates say that extra competition would be good for customers. Indeed, state regulators say the only complaints they have been receiving about the services have been from dealers, not consumers. There is mixed evidence on whether consumers save money buying cars online.
Because of state franchise laws and manufacturers' policies, Internet services must buy cars from dealers, not directly from manufacturers. Paying two markups, one for the dealer and one for the Internet company, is a burden on consumers that does not exist for many other forms of electronic commerce. This erodes price advantages Internet companies may have.
The federal government has left the regulation of auto retailing to the states, leaving potential gaps in regulation for deals that cross state lines, said state regulators from across the nation, who convened at a hotel near the dealers' convention for meetings over the last four days.
"You could buy a car from a Mississippi dealer who has his Web site in Iowa and delivers a car in Idaho -- who has jurisdiction?" asked T. Rex Green, Idaho's supervisor of dealer investigations. "I can't justify to my taxpayers running all the way to Mississippi to chase someone."
Dealers have already used their political muscle over the last 12 months to persuade lawmakers in nine states to tighten state franchise laws, making it virtually impossible for manufacturers to sell cars except through franchised dealers. Governor George W. Bush of Texas, the front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination, signed the toughest such law in the nation last year, and the Texas Department of Transportation has become the nation's leader in becoming stricter on Internet commerce involving cars. Legislatures in many more states are expected to consider legislation pushed by dealer groups this year, with one bill introduced last week in the Nebraska Legislature, which is nonpartisan and has only one house.
State motor vehicle regulators, acting partly at the prompting of dealers but also because of concern that businesses could use the Internet to commit fraud, have become alarmed that Internet companies may be violating longstanding laws in most states that require anyone selling a new car or truck to be licensed and have a franchise relationship with a manufacturer.
The regulators said that they believed the newest services, those which actually deliver cars to customers' homes, might violate laws intended to protect dealers and consumers.
Top regulators from Wisconsin and Texas said they had ordered CarsDirect.com, an Internet seller, to halt operations in their state. Regulators from Virginia, Kentucky, Nebraska and Louisiana said they doubted CarsDirect.com and similar companies complied with their states' laws; Louisiana regulators said they were "on the verge" of taking action on the issue, although they refused to elaborate.
Wendy Barbour, a spokeswoman for CarsDirect.com, said the company was still doing business in every state except Texas and Arkansas, where the company acknowledges regulatory restrictions. She declined to comment on any litigation and regulatory complaints pending against the company.
Regulators in Texas also used that state's tough new law in November to order the Ford Motor Company to stop using its Internet site to sell used cars in Houston. Ford has complied, but is suing the state to reverse the order.
For the last three years, dozens of Internet companies have generated sales leads for car dealers, providing abundant information to consumers about what is available and then sending the customer to a dealer to close the sale. But a few companies, led by CarsDirect.com, have recently become car-buying services, taking prepaid orders from customers, buying cars from nearby dealers and delivering them to customers' homes on flatbed trucks.
The regulators reached a consensus here that a model law should be drafted for each state to regulate car sales over the Internet, although the details of the legislation have not been agreed upon. Lobbyists from most state dealer associations attended Friday's meeting and supported the drafting of such a law.
A dozen regulators said in separate interviews that while complaints about the new services had been coming from dealers, not consumers, they believed that consumers could someday be hurt by insufficient regulation of the new companies. State regulators have the authority to enforce lemon laws, requiring makers to take back seriously defective cars, and to fine or even revoke the licenses of dealers in their states who commit certain frauds, such as charging a buyer for options that are not actually on a car.
Even a few of the older Internet companies that sell referrals to dealers are running into regulatory problems. Samuel M. Hedgpeth, president and chief operating officer of Autoweb.com, said that current state laws and regulations favored dealers. Autoweb unsuccessfully challenged a rule in Texas, for example, that requires companies to charge a fixed monthly fee to dealers for supplying them with sales leads, instead of selling each referral separately.
The law, Mr. Hedgpeth complained, was the equivalent of telling an ice cream vendor that "you have to charge the same whether it's one scoop, two scoops or three scoops."
The enforcement efforts and tougher franchise laws have been found mainly in the South and Midwest, where dealers' political influence is particularly strong. Regulators and legislatures in the Northeast and West have done little so far to address the Internet car-buying services, with the exception of Connecticut, where the Legislature tightened rules last year against manufacturers' ownership of dealerships.
For consumers, the bottom line in the current squabble is that cars are unlikely to get much cheaper anytime soon. Fearful of angering their dealers and increasingly constrained by state regulations, domestic and foreign automakers alike have said in recent weeks that they have no plans to sell cars directly to the public through the Internet, nor do they even plan to sell directly to the Internet companies. Many dealers now sell several brands of cars, and sometimes retaliate against automakers that offend them by shifting their energy and advertising spending to a different brand.
General Motors ran into this problem last year, when it announced a plan to buy and operate up to 10 percent of its dealerships, using them partly for Internet sales. G.M. quickly retreated from the plan in the face of dealers' opposition.
Roy S. Roberts, G.M.'s group vice president for North American sales and marketing, said here on Sunday that the company now planned to work closely with dealers so that consumers would not feel a need for independent Internet services. What the services "are trying to do is take our customers, and they can only do that if we don't come together," Mr. Roberts said, adding, "We can cut them out."
G.M. and other automakers are planning to greatly increase the number of cars they build to order. This would diminish the need for dealers to hold huge inventories of cars, one of their main functions in the current market. Once most cars are custom-built, customers would be able to order them directly over the Internet. Dealers are fighting now to make sure that they will handle those orders -- and that their role is not supplanted by independent Internet companies, or by the automakers themselves.
According to J. D. Power & Associates, an auto consulting firm, nearly half of all new car buyers now use the Internet for research, and they tend to be relatively affluent. But only 2.7 percent use an Internet buying service, mostly services that send sales leads to dealerships. The firm estimates that 10,000 or so cars, worth about $250 million, were sold online last year, almost all in the last few months, with the numbers rising rapidly with each passing month.
Consumer advocates once supported auto franchise laws. The laws prevented manufacturers from retaliating against dealers who sell cars for less than the suggested retail price. The laws also discourage unscrupulous, unlicensed businesses from pocketing people's money and not delivering a car, which was a problem before the 1950's, when many franchise laws were enacted.
But now consumer groups worry that the laws are being amended in ways that hurt customers. "We do have some serious concerns right now that dealers are using old franchise laws to inhibit new and creative ways to sell cars, and most of these new and creative ways are in consumers' interest," said Jack Gillis, an auto retailing expert at the Consumer Federation of America.
The stakes in this legal battle are enormous. Much of the retail business now being transacted on the Internet involves fairly inexpensive goods, like $40 shirts or $20 books; direct sales to consumers over the Internet are estimated at $10 billion to $15 billion last year. Moving even a small part of the nation's $700 billion a year in new and used automobile sales onto the Internet would greatly expand the scale and economic importance of electronic commerce.
But automakers and entrepreneurs alike have found that moving car sales online is not easily done because of the regulatory issues and the political power of the dealers. "Everybody with a PC and a background in Palo Alto thinks they're going to revolutionize the auto industry and retire at 27 with a 180-foot yacht," said James Holden, the president of the Chrysler Group of DaimlerChrysler A.G. "They don't have a clue."
One company, CarOrder.com, is trying to get around the regulations by buying dozens of tiny rural dealerships in large states. The company hopes to use the dealerships to order huge numbers of cars directly from manufacturers for sale over the Internet. But CarOrder has not yet reached any agreements with manufacturers, which usually limit shipments to dealerships based on the size of the communities they serve.
Murray Chodos, a financial consultant in Greenwich, Conn., who bought a Toyota 4Runner sport utility vehicle that was delivered to his home on Sunday by CarOrder.com, said that buying over the Internet was much easier than going to a dealership. He has had a couple of problems, though. The Toyota arrived with an empty gas tank, while his order last November for a Lexus LS 400 sedan still has not been filled.
Mr. Chodos nonetheless said he thought Internet companies should be able to buy cars straight from manufacturers and charge even lower prices, adding, "I'd love to see the day when these Internet companies can go direct, and the dealerships stick to service."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: CarOrder.com delivered a Toyota 4Runner to Murray Chodos of Greenwich, Conn., on Sunday.(Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Murray Chodos, who has ordered two vehicles online, says it is easier than going to the dealer. The Toyota, above, however, came with an empty gas tank, and a car he ordered in November has not been delivered. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. C10)
 
Chart: "Internet Showrooms"
New car buyers are flocking to the Internet, mainly for research and price quotes. Some have made purchases -- either from car-buying services that sell vehicles obtained from dealers or, more commonly, through dealers referred by Internet services.
 
Graph compares the number of people who used the internet for research or purchase of new cars, to the number who used the internet for actual purchases (including referals to dealers) since 1997.
(Source: J. D. Power & Associates)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET NEW CAR DEALERS (93%); INTERNET & WWW (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FRANCHISING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FRANCHISING LAW (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (79%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (61%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



629 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
New Economics Of Recruiting Top Executives

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
SHARES of Internet-based companies remain the currency of the realm in Silicon Valley.
Neoforma.com kicked off the 2000 season for dot.com stock offerings yesterday and the deal looked like another bonanza for a variety of investors and suppliers who got in ahead of the general public, including the firm that found the company's chief executive, Heidrick & Struggles International. Shares of Neoforma, a start-up that operates electronic marketplaces for new and used medical equipment, tripled to $52.375 in their first day of trading on the Nasdaq stock market. 
 That gain showed that investors have not lost their voracious appetite for new Internet stocks and it could translate into a huge payday for Heidrick & Struggles. When the time came last fall for Neoforma to pay Heidrick & Struggles, a Chicago-based executive search firm, for recruiting Robert Zollars, a seasoned health care industry executive, the search firm accepted a cash fee plus a bundle of equity in the young company.
Fees for top executive search firms traditionally run to about one-third of an executive's first-year cash compensation. In Mr. Zollars's case, that would have amounted to about $250,000.
But, as on Wall Street, in Silicon Valley cash salary and bonuses often amount to less than half of a chief executive's total compensation. So, on top of its traditional fee, Heidrick & Struggles has often demanded equity equal to one-third of the executive's stock and options that vest in the first year.
For placing Mr. Zollars, Heidrick & Struggles received a warrant convertible into 436,623 shares of Neoforma stock at 10 cents a share. As of yesterday's close, that warrant was worth about $22.8 million.
"You'd probably choose column B here," said John Thompson, a vice chairman of Heidrick & Struggles in Menlo Park, Calif., who recruited Mr. Zollars away from a senior management position at Cardinal Health.
Mr. Thompson said he had accepted a mix of cash and equity for all of the searches he has conducted for more than two years. All told, Heidrick & Struggles has taken equity stakes in more than 70 companies and has commitments for equity in another 200 searches it is conducting. The firm has sold shares in fewer than 10 of those companies.
The Neoforma stake "is one of the larger ones and, hopefully, it's going to be worth a lot more," Mr. Thompson said. He said that Heidrick & Struggles cannot sell its Neoforma shares for several months because they are subject to the same restrictions as shares held by the company's managers.
"We want an opportunity to participate in the long-term performance of the C.E.O.'s we place," Mr. Thompson said.
Clearly, the firm, which itself went public last year, is taking a gamble every time it accepts stock in an untested company instead of cash.
Heidrick & Struggles sometimes hedges its bets, however, according to a prospectus for a three million share secondary stock offering it is currently marketing. In the case of one company that paid Heidrick & Struggles with a warrant, Covad Communications, the firm used stock options to limit the potential decline in the value of its stake. Still, Heidrick & Struggles took in more than $10 million for recruiting that company's chief executive in July 1998.
"This is a good strategy on their part," said Tom O'Halloran, an analyst at Warburg Dillon Read. "It's part of a trend among professional-service firms to either invest cash in companies or take warrants from them in addition to the standard fee, or, in lieu of fees."
So far for Heidrick & Struggles, Mr. O'Halloran said, "this has not shown up as a big number on their financials but it could very well be a big number at some point in the future." If the firm proves it can repeatedly reap big gains from these stakes, investors will place a higher value on the firm's shares, he said.
Some executives of Heidrick & Struggles, including its chief executive, Patrick S. Pittard, plan to sell shares in the firm's secondary offering. But Mr. Thompson, who owns more than 1 percent of the firm, is hanging on. "I'm predicting it's going to be a major part of our company's financial future," Mr. Thompson said of the practice of accepting equity for fees.
Indeed, Mr. Thompson and his colleagues believe so strongly in their ability to pick winners, among managers and companies, that Heidrick & Struggles is branching out into the venture capital business. Borrowing a stratagem used by investment banks, the firm plans to use $25 million of its own money and its employees' money to start a fund that will invest in private companies, primarily those that hire Heidrick & Struggles to find executives for them.
Mr. O'Halloran said investing in companies "presents a conflict of interest, but it could be a tool to strengthen client relationships and could be an effective tool to recruit" its own employees.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSII (NASDAQ) (91%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (91%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HEIDRICK & STRUGGLES INTERNATIONAL INC (91%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (88%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); HEALTH CARE (75%); STOCK OPTIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); BONUS PAY (65%); 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOLLARS (64%); TOM O'HALLORAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



630 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Aid Is Diverted to Germ Warfare, Russian Scientists Say

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER

 BODY:
Some of the American money awarded to support Russia's civilian biological research was secretly shifted to Biopreparat, a shadowy organization that once directed the Soviet Union's germ warfare program, several Russian scientists say.
American officials, who for five years have walked a delicate line in providing aid to Russia, remain suspicious about the activities of Biopreparat, which has been reborn as a state-owned drug company. 
 The Americans are concerned because of its continuing secrecy and because it is led by the same military and intelligence officers who spearheaded and concealed the Soviet Union's biological weapons programs during the cold war.
Separately, Clinton administration officials acknowledged that the United States had been less than meticulous in the mid-1990's in enforcing its ban on aid to Biopreparat.
Records show that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the United States Agency for International Development made grants in that period that benefited Biopreparat. Administration officials said today that they had tightened their procedures. "There's been a learning curve," one administration official said.
A spokesman for the space agency said it would investigate whether any American aid money had been diverted to the organization and would withhold $1.6 million in assistance until Moscow accounted for its spending of previous grants.
Officials at A.I.D. said they had not been aware of Biopreparat's history and should have checked with national security officials before approving aid to a joint venture that involved the organization.
Russian biologists familiar with Biopreparat said its director, Gen. Yuri T. Kalinin, had shifted at least 10 percent of several NASA grants intended for biological research in space to his organization.
General Kalinin has headed Biopreparat since its inception in 1973, and Western officials say he is the focal point of concern among American and British intelligence analysts about whether Moscow has fully given up research into germ warfare and what Acting President Vladimir V. Putin will decide.
"The Russian government is facing a key test," said Amy E. Smithson, a defense expert at the Henry L. Stimson Center in Washington, who said Russian scientists had told her in confidence about diversions of money. "Either Putin will support the old guard of biological cold warriors, exemplified by Kalinin and his cronies, or scientists who want to put their biological warfare knowledge to peaceful use."
Asked today about the scientist's accusations, a spokesman for Biopreparat declined to comment. Neither General Kalinin, a former intelligence officer, nor any senior Biopreparat official who was active in the Soviet germ warfare program would agree to talk about Biopreparat's current or past activities.
The United States and the Soviet Union developed biological weapons after World War II. They agreed by treaty in 1972 to give them up, but a year later, Moscow secretly mounted a crash program to produce and stockpile even more lethal germs.
Ken Alibek, General Kalinin's former deputy in Biopreparat and the most senior Soviet germ official to defect to the West, and Igor V. Domaradsky, an early leader of the program, have identified General Kalinin and Biopreparat as the hub of the former Soviet germ warfare program, which at its peak involved some 40 institutes across the Soviet Union and more than 60,000 people.
General Kalinin and other senior officials from Biopreparat were also instrumental in covering up the program's existence after the first key scientists defected to the West in 1989, said Mr. Alibek, who left in 1992.
Russian scientists said General Kalinin had supervised Biopreparat's transition to civilian work after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. Western officials say they know little about Biopreparat's operations.
But a Biopreparat brochure signed by Yuri T. Kalinin, identified not by military rank but as a "professor, doctor of science," states that the Russian government owns 51 percent of the joint-stock company and that Biopreparat now includes some 20 research institutes and other enterprises that make about 1,000 vaccines, medicines and biotechnology products.
In response to American protests in 1992 over Russia's germ warfare activities, Boris N. Yeltsin, then the Russian president, assured Washington that he had ended his country's germ warfare program. He also promised to dismiss General Kalinin as Biopreparat's director. But for unknown reasons he was unwilling or unable to fulfill that pledge.
In recent months tensions have arisen between Biopreparat and several of the civilian institutes that remain under its control. American officials say their aid efforts are intended in part to funnel money to those institutes while starving Biopreparat of funds.
But Russian scientists and American officials say General Kalinin has undermined that policy, using his bureaucratic powers over the institutes and their employees. The general, who authorizes foreign travel by employees, has also tried to prevent institutes from developing independent ties to Western institutes and companies.
General Kalinin appears to have gained access to American money nonetheless. In 1995, NASA awarded $1.6 million to more than a dozen civilian institutes to conduct biological research in space. The executive committee set up by Russia and the United States to distribute the money included a scientist identified in documents only as Y. Kalinin.
Dr. Arnauld E. Nicogossian, head of a NASA's $20 million joint research program with Russia, said a man he knew as Dr. Kalinin had helped identify which institutes were to receive American aid. Dr. Nicogossian said he had not heard of Biopreparat until last year.
Biopreparat also stands to benefit from a grant made by the Agency for International Development in 1997. In a project approved by a Russian-American commission headed by Vice President Al Gore, the aid agency awarded a $6 million grant to a collaboration between the Searle pharmaceutical unit of Monsanto and a Russian institute partly owned by Biopreparat.
Officials and scientists say none of the A.I.D. money went directly to Biopreparat. But, they acknowledge, Biopreparat stands to earn a share of the profits if the company's sale of high-quality medicines succeeds.
In interviews, administration officials defended the grants. The American money, they say, has helped deter a scientific brain drain to rogue states and terrorists and there is no indication that it was used to support covert germ research.
But many national security officials were furious when they first learned of Biopreparat's involvement in the grants last year. "What happened in these cases was outrageous," said a senior national security official who spoke on condition that he not be identified. "A.I.D. and NASA were essentially running their own foreign policy."
Several officials attributed the early problems to the reluctance of intelligence officials to share information. As a result, few American officials reviewing the NASA grants in 1995 were aware of Biopreparat's key role in the Soviet germ warfare program.
Administration officials said the system for reviewing sensitive projects was now far tougher. For example, in June 1998, the Energy Department rejected a request that all American research grants to institutes linked to Biopreparat be channeled through Biopreparat officials. "By that time," the official said, "we knew we wanted nothing to do with them."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (93%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); HISTORY (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



631 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
BRITAIN: PINOCHET APPEAL
In a joint action, six rights groups are asking the High Court today to block the release of Gen. Augusto Pinochet from house arrest. They are seeking a public hearing into Home Secretary Jack Straw's Jan. 11 determination that the former Chilean dictator is medically unfit to stand trial in Spain on torture charges. Mr. Straw said he would await the outcome of any judicial review before announcing his decision on whether General Pinochet, 84, can return to Chile. Warren Hoge (NYT) 

IRELAND: ARMS CACHE FOUND
The police questioned an unidentified 39-year-old man they found transporting bomb-making equipment, homemade mortars and rockets in a van near Tipperary. The police said they suspected that the arms were destined for the Continuity I.R.A., a group opposed to the Irish Republican Army's cease-fire and intent on bringing down the Northern Ireland peace accord. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
GERMANY: EX-COMMUNIST MOVED
Officials said that to protect his privacy, the former East German Communist leader Egon Krenz, left, had been transferred in Berlin from the Hakenfelde open prison to Plotzensee prison, where rules are stricter. Officials said "unremitting media interest" in Mr. Krenz had caused disruption at Hakenfelde. But Mr. Krenz's lawyer said his client was being harassed by justice officials. Mr. Krenz is serving a six-and-a-half year sentence in connection with the shooting of people who tried to flee across the Berlin Wall. Victor Homola (NYT)
 
KOSOVO: REPORT ON G.I.'s
American peacekeeping soldiers may have mistreated and threatened local civilians and made "inappropriate physical contact" with women while trying to control demonstrations, United States forces said in a report. The report came just over a week after an American soldier was charged with the murder of an 11-year-old Kosovo girl. The reported incidents occurred in the eastern town of Vitina, near where the girl's body was found. (Reuters)
 
SPAIN: SOCIALISTS WOO COMMUNISTS
The opposition Socialist Party, which trails the center-right government in opinion polls before March 12 elections, offered to form a government with the smaller Communist-led United Left. The deal would be the first of its kind in 20 years. The United Left called an urgent meeting with the Socialists, who said the alliance would be enough to win power. Al Goodman (NYT)
 
SPAIN: PROTESTS CONTINUE
As protests against the Basque separatist group E.T.A. continued for a fourth day across Spain, King Juan Carlos condemned what he termed "crimimal terrorism" and lauded, in a speech to foreign diplomats, the international cooperation to fight the group. The government blames the rebels for a bombing last Friday that killed an army officer in Madrid, in the first such attack in 18 months. Al Goodman (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: POLICE FACE TRIAL
Twenty police officers, including Tehran's former police chief, Brig. Gen. Farhad Nazari, will go on trial on Feb. 29 for their role in the storming of a student dormitory last July that set off pro-democracy riots, the daily Arya reported. A prosecutor, Abbasali Farati, was quoted as saying that 400 students had complained to the military court about the officers. General Nazari, a hard-liner, was fired after being blamed for the attack. (AP)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: SCHOOL SHOWDOWN
The administration of the National Autonomous University of Mexico is headed for a showdown today with student strikers who have closed it down for nine months. Pointing to results of a referendum in which university members voted to end the strike, President Juan Ramon de la Fuente said he would walk onto the campus to take back control. The strikers began to fortify barricades blocking entrances to the campus. Julia Preston (NYT)
 
MEXICO: CHARTER CHANGE SOUGHT
Francisco Labastida, in a speech starting his campaign as the governing party's presidential nominee, urged party members to consider amending the Constitution to allow senators and congressmen to stand for re-election. He said it would strengthen Congress as a balance to the presidency. The re-election of all officials has been banned since the 1910 revolution, which began after Porfirio Diaz's sixth term as president. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
EAST TIMOR: DOLLAR INTRODUCED
The United Nations transitional administration decided to make the American dollar the territory's temporary currency as it moves toward independence. Timorese leaders agreed to the move, although several said they would have preferred to see the Portuguese escudo, the currency of the former colonial power, replace the Indonesian rupiah. Barbara Crossette (NYT)
 
KASHMIR: FREED REBEL
Mushtaq Ahmad Zargar, one of three jailed militants freed by India in its swap for the hostages of a hijacked airliner, has rejoined guerrillas fighting against the army in Indian-controlled Kashmir, according to a statement by the militant group Al-Umar. Barry Bearak (NYT)
 
INDIA: PAKISTAN ACCUSED
Defense Minister George Fernandes accused Pakistan of stepping up "cross-border terrorism" in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir, including an attack by army regulars over the weekend. "We have bodies of six Pakistani soldiers still lying with us," he said. India has beefed up security and intensified operations against separatist guerrillas in the region ahead of Republic Day celebrations later this month, the police said. Barry Bearak (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
COMOROS: VOTERS BACK SECESSION
Secessionist leaders on the Indian Ocean island of Anjouan celebrated after voters endorsed their 1997 breakaway from the Comoro Islands federal republic. The vote was condemned by the Organization of African Unity, which said it would "under no circumstances recognize its outcome." Diplomats said the island was facing international economic and diplomatic isolation as a result. (Reuters)
 
SOUTH AFRICA: POLICE QUESTIONED
A commission investigating the shootings and murders of members of taxi companies competing over routes has urged prosecutors to investigate police complicity in the violence. The commission found that some police officers owned taxis and may have been involved in committing crimes. At best, the commission found, the police displayed ineptitude in investigating the violence, which led to at least 19 deaths in five years. Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)
 
SIERRA LEONE: DIAMOND MINING HALTED
Foday Sankoh, the rebel leader now in charge of mineral resources in a coalition government, announced the suspension of all diamond mining in an effort to control smuggling. The illegal digging and export of diamonds, especially through neighboring Liberia, financed rebel groups, including Mr. Sankoh's, during a nine-year civil war. Norimitsu Onishi (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Map of Comoros

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SPAIN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHILE (93%); KOSOVO (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); COMOROS (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); 

COMPANY: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHILE (93%); KOSOVO (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); COMOROS (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HOUSE ARREST (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SENTENCING (78%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARRESTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); MILITARY OFFENSES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); ARMIES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); TERRORISM (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); PEACEKEEPING (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); TORTURE (71%); ARMED FORCES (68%); ELECTIONS (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (67%); SHOOTINGS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); MURDER (57%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: JACK STRAW (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



632 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: Outer Space vs. Parking Space;
Planetarium and Wary Neighbors Prepare for Opening

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
Stepping over the battered orange extension cord snaking from a 16-gallon Shop Vac, Ellen V. Futter, president of the American Museum of Natural History, pointed to the floor of the sleek new $210 million planetarium about her. "Right now, it's all about wires," she said, her voice competing with a symphony of power tools.
To her left, three electricians were unwinding 21 spools of red, white, blue and green wire, activating a wall of video monitors on a recent afternoon. Upstairs, technicians were tuning the new $3.5 million Zeiss projector. And next door, interviewers were filling the last of 289 new planetarium jobs, including 37 security guards and 6 switchboard operators. 
 Thus, these days, the museum braces for the onslaught. On Feb. 19, the first of as many as a million extra visitors over the next year will descend on 81st Street and Central Park West to see the new Rose Center for Earth and Space.
Even if the planetarium had not been a New York City icon for 65 years, this debut would be no ordinary opening. Expressing everything from jubilation to intense concern, city officials, tourism czars, culture sachems and neighborhood naysayers have at last found themselves in agreement about something: that the impact of the new building will be off the charts.
The advent of the Rose Center "is perhaps the single most important attraction in the city this year," said Cristyne F. Lategano, president of NYC and Company, formerly known as the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau.
"It will have a tremendous impact on the city's economy," she said, "and there will be spinoff benefits to restaurants, retail shops, hotels and theaters as well."
Specifically, the new planetarium is expected to generate $76 million in retail sales and an additional $5.8 million in tax revenue for New York City, according to an economic impact statement prepared for the museum by a consultant, Hamilton, Rabinovitz & Alschuler.
To Schuyler G. Chapin, the city's cultural affairs commissioner, the very-2000 planetarium -- an 87-foot-wide aluminum-clad sphere in a titanic glass cube -- will be nothing less than "a new symbol for New York City," he said.
"Think of the postcards," he said.
But it has to open first. "There have been moments when we thought we'd never get it done on time," Ms. Futter, 50, said of the six-year construction project.
Work proceeds, feverishly, including: moving the speakers inside the 432-seat Space Theater to eliminate dead spots. Printing enough giveaway floor plans to guide visitors. Cleaning the construction dust off the touchable bronze model of the moon. Laying the red-shifted rainbow carpeting on the Cosmic Pathway, where at 50 million years a step, visitors can stroll down a 350-foot ramp recapitulating the 13.2-billion-year evolution of the universe. (Signage designates one spot where the entire span of human history is represented by a single hair.)
Beyond this, the museum is anticipating planetarium lines so long that astronomical lecturers are being hired to entertain standees with impromptu talks on science and space. The spielers will be kept busy, according to preliminary estimates, by 4.5 million museum visitors next year.
Such a total, exceeding the population of Los Angeles, will come close to the five million yearly visitors to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, across Central Park. "Undoubtedly there has been a sibling rivalry," said Mr. Chapin, referring to the close 19th-century origins of both institutions (the American Museum was founded in 1869, the Met in 1870), "but they are a perfect pair, the cultural anchors of the city."
In an era when the Met has reigned supreme, will the new hoopla accorded the long-stodgy American Museum revive this 130-year rivalry?
"We're very happy to be bookends on a beautiful park," Ms. Futter said diplomatically, adding that the increasing number of tourists coming to the planetarium could benefit the Met's admissions as well.
The Met "doesn't consider other museums competition," Harold Holzer, the museum's vice president for communications, said, "and we think the Rose Center is a perfect addition to the neighborhood."
That opinion is hardly shared by some in the neighborhood. Three years after courts rebuffed community law suits trying to block the new building's construction, the museum still faces opposition from a dwindling but vocal band of neighbors, some of whom are opposed to the aesthetic of the new planetarium.
"They could have put the new Zeiss projector in the original landmarked Hayden Planetarium and preserved it," said Samuel H. Leff, president of the Community Alliance for Responsible Museum Development, one of two groups that unsuccessfully sued the museum. "The city could have saved tens of millions of dollars, but now we have a glass box with a ball in it that looks like a high-tech tumor."
"They wanted to put something in there that was very flashy, so they'd have something like the Pyramide at the Louvre and get a lot of attention," he said, referring to I. M. Pei's acclaimed addition to the Louvre.
His organization has substantially declined from 350 members during the salad days of planetarium insurgency, but Mr. Leff claimed that many in the neighborhood opposed what he called "the traffic disaster" caused by automobile and bus visitors "and the additional congestion and pollution in an already densely populated neighborhood."
Although dozens of school buses could park in the old street-surface lot on the planetarium grounds, there is room for but 10 of them in the Rose Center's new 370-space garage.
School buses, tour buses and the cars of visitors unable to fit in the garage "will cruise the neighborhood, parking up and down the local streets and avenues, causing gridlock," Mr. Leff said.
Furthermore, "The buses will leave their motors running, causing pollution," he said.
"At the museum," he added, "they make much of all their exhibits about ecology and biodiversity, but they're polluting the community right outside their buildings."
But another local group, Friends of Museum Park, says that since the population of the West Side has declined 25 percent since the 1950's, and since museum attendance was considerably higher 25 years ago than it was last year, the fears of overcrowding are unfounded.
"The neighborhood can support more museum visitors," said Peter M. Wright, the organization's president and co-founder. But like Mr. Leff, Mr. Wright is worried about bus parking and pollution.
Concerns about traffic have also been raised by residents of the Beresford building on West 81st Street and Central Park West, who have another complaint about the museum's future as a much-sought-after party venue.
At the planetarium's sneak-preview opening party for 1,700 on New Year's Eve, "they had outdoor music, which I could hear in my apartment, and the cheap and ugly psychedelic lights made the planetarium look like a theme park," said Richard Lieb, a lawyer and Beresford board member who unsuccessfully sued to stop construction.
Lisa J. Gugenheim, the museum's vice president for government relations and community affairs, said that since 1995 she and others at the museum have "met more than 250 times with members of the community."
"We have, together, modified the museum's plans where appropriate and possible," she said.
Ms. Gugenheim said the museum regretted any inconvenience caused by the New Year's Eve celebration. She said the museum would "limit the use of outdoor amplified music" in the future.
Ms. Gugenheim says that the museum has adequate plans to unload and store the average of 41 school buses each weekday that visit the museum between 9:30 a.m and 1:30 p.m. She said there is room both in the Rose Center garage, in legal street-parking spaces and in a 25-vehicle overflow parking center at 60th Street and West End Avenue.
For the first time, the commander for the 20th Precinct has assigned an officer to ticket buses that are illegally parked or are idling their motors.
The museum is also mounting a $1 million advertising campaign with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to encourage visitors to take public transportation, while sharing half the $20 million cost of renovating the 81st Street subway station and the museum's ground floor to allow more visitors and school groups.
Ms. Futter said the museum was equally focused on people-moving inside the Rose Center, because the planetarium "will change the nature of how people visit the museum, how long they spend here, and how often they come back."
As people swarm into the planetarium from eight entrances, managers are projecting what they call "throughput" that averages two hours per customer. The museum designers are preparing for three kinds of visitors: "streakers, strollers and studiers," Ms. Futter said.
Streakers, of course, race through; strollers amble about at a steady pace, and studiers insist on reading every word of every label.
One nightmare is that "there will be no throughput," said Barbara D. Gunn, senior vice president for government relations and community affairs. "If they find everything fascinating in the planetarium, they won't want to leave," she said, half seriously.
But some just might go on to study the universe. "The Rose Center will be an inspirational venue for communicating science to young people," said Dan Goldin, administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in Washington. "I'll never forget my first time at the Hayden Planetarium when I was 7," said Mr. Goldin, who was raised in the South Bronx. "For me it was, well, eureka! It launched my interest in space and astronomy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of the planets represented in a three-dimensional rendering of the solar system at the planetarium at the Rose Center for Earth and Space. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B8); (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Chart: "Coming Attraction"
The urban impact of the $210 million new Rose Center for Earth and Space at the American Museum of Natural History is expected to extend well beyond the reach of its Space Show. Here are some of the projected effects of the planetarium on the life of New York City during the next year.
 
4.5 million Visitors expected to both the museum and planetarium, compared with 3.5 million visitors in 1999 (when the planetarium was closed). Many will take a break at a new cafe, left, now open near the Rose Center.
6,800: Daily maximum number of audience members in the 432-seat Space Theater.
289: New jobs in the Rose Center, including custodians, above, security guards, museum shop salespeople, visitor services greeters and others.
1,064: New jobs in New York City generated by secondary economic effects of planetarium visitorship.
$5.8 million: Tax revenue gained by New York City from planetarium visitors.
$20 million: Amount spent to renovate the 81st Street subway stop, left, and the ground floor of the museum to accommodate extra visitors drawn by the planetarium.
(Sources: American Museum of Natural History, NYC & Company, Metropolitan Transportation Authority)(pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: ROSE CENTER (63%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (93%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (93%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (68%); TOURISM (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); RETAIL SALES (63%); 

PERSON: ELLEN V FUTTER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



633 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Budget Rise Is Proposed By Whitman

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Saying New Jersey's sustained economic boom and the state's mounting surpluses had created an "unprecedented opportunity," Gov. Christine Todd Whitman proposed today her most generous budget yet, a $21.2 billion plan that increases spending by $1.3 billion for a host of new programs, tax cuts and ambitious school and highway construction projects.
Mrs. Whitman, a Republican, asserted that her spending plan, which she titled a Prosperity Dividend, would actually strengthen her record as a fiscal conservative. She boasted that she had completely eliminated so-called one-shot revenues and that her budget would leave yet another record surplus while keeping the average yearly growth in spending during her two terms to the lowest level of any governor in 30 years. 
 The governor, who likes to remind voters how often she has lowered or eliminated taxes, proposed three new tax cuts today, including an earned income tax credit for which nearly 280,000 residents would be eligible. Under the program, families earning $15,000 would receive a $338 check.
"Oh, and in case anyone's counting, it will make for tax cut No. 40," Mrs. Whitman said.
The governor also proposed a two-year suspension of employees' contribution to unemployment insurance, which is now capped at $42.40 a year per worker, as well as the employers' share, which ranges from $440 for a small business to $44,000 for a large company. The state's unemployment insurance fund has ballooned to the nation's third largest, at $2.9 billion, enough to pay for two and a half years of anticipated benefits without any additional collections.
Acting to shore up the area in which she has been most vulnerable to criticism -- her propensity to borrow -- Mrs. Whitman called for a new fund to begin to retire the state's debt. But she set aside no money in her budget for that purpose, and Democrats roundly criticized her proposal as disingenuous.
"This budget is the latest exercise in spending for an administration that has never seen a line of credit it didn't like," said the Assembly minority leader, Joseph Doria, a Democrat from Bayonne.
There was real money in the budget, however, for a broad array of constituencies: $70 million for health insurance for the working poor and $55 million for the disabled, $100 million for hospitals and more than $45 million for colleges, $25 million for high-tech entrepreneurs and $10 million for cancer researchers, to name a few.
Immediate complaints came only from those who got something but wanted still more. A coalition of antismoking groups known as New Jersey Breathes lamented that Mrs. Whitman had only allocated $30 million for tobacco prevention efforts. "We're shocked," the group's chairman, Paul Wallner, said, adding that an additional $15 million could make New Jersey's program as effective as any in the country.
The budget includes two long-awaited capital programs, and each entails an important concession to a Republican contender to succeed Mrs. Whitman as governor. She proposed to spend $9.4 billion to rebuild the state's crumbling schools, including $5 billion for inner-city districts to comply with a court order. But she agreed to a demand by the Assembly speaker, Jack Collins, a likely candidate for governor, that she set aside $100 million to finance such construction from the $300 million a year in anticipated receipts from the nationwide tobacco settlement. The governor had sought to reserve the tobacco money for health care programs.
In her speech today, Mrs. Whitman sounded a note of caution about the tobacco money, which is certain to come under pressure from lawmakers during the budget negotiation process, which by law and tradition must end with passage of an appropriations law before the end of June.
"With $7.4 billion over the next 25 years, we have to set a good example -- avoid the raid-the-cookie-jar mentality -- and spend this money responsibly," she said.
Education lobbyists praised the governor's concession, saying a stable source of revenue was needed to pay for such an ambitious statewide construction effort. But Mrs. Whitman's budget acknowledges that after five years, additional revenue sources will be needed to generate annual increases of $50 million in debt service costs.
The governor also proposed a refinancing of the state's depleted transportation trust fund to pay for $1 billion in new projects each year.
She had raised the possibility of an increase in the state's 11.5-cent gasoline tax for that purpose. But she acceded to wishes of the State Senate president, Donald T. DiFrancesco, another potential candidate for governor, who opposed a higher gas tax.
Instead, the state would pay about $220 million more into the fund from general revenues, and would float $580 million more in bonds.
Mrs. Whitman's budget address was most intriguing when she turned to the state's debt level, which has more than doubled, to $14.6 billion, since she took office. She first contended that the state's real debt had grown much less -- about 6 percent a year -- explaining that her financial officers had begun recognizing many existing obligations as debt, in the interest of "honest accounting." She did not mention her issuing of $2.8 billion in bonds in 1997 to bring the state's payments into its employee pension system up to date.
"Now, it's time to take the next step," the governor added, proposing a debt retirement fund. Half of any future surpluses greater than $720 million -- the current size of the state's fund for emergencies -- would be put aside to pay down the state's debt.
"Putting money toward debt reduction is like paying more than the minimum due on your credit card," Mrs. Whitman said. "The sooner you pay down the balance, the less you have to pay in the long run."
Critics immediately derided the governor's suggestion. "This sounds like, 'Now that I've got religion, let me go have another drink,' " said Jon Shure, president of New Jersey Policy Perspectives, a liberal group. "At the same time they're saying this, they're borrowing even more for the transportation trust fund, without creating a new revenue source."
And Senator Wayne R. Bryant said the governor's talk of reducing the debt was welcome, "but actions speak louder than words." Mr. Bryant, a Camden Democrat, added, "Using this budget to make a down payment on the $2.8 billion pension bond would help convince skeptics that the administration's debt retirement intentions are genuine."
But Leonard Lance, a Republican from Hunterdon County who is chairman of the Assembly Appropriations Committee, said he was pleased that at least some of the new money for the transportation fund was so-called pay-as-you-go capital instead of bonds. "The governor's moving in the right direction," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "HIGHLIGHTS: The Proposal"
 
SPENDING PROGRAMS
$100 million for hospitals
$70 million for medical insurance for the working poor
$56 million for services for the disabled
$45 million for colleges and universities
$10 million for cultural groups
 
THREE NEW TAX CUTS
Earned income tax credit: four-year phase-in; in 2000-01, refund is $338 for family earning $15,000. 280,000 workers eligible.
Unemployment insurance: $130 million in cuts for employees, or $42.40 per worker
Unemployment insurance: $130 million for employers, or $440 to $44,000 per company, depending on size
 
CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
 
$9.4 billion to rebuild New Jersey schools, financed with $100 million from nationwide tobacco settlement
$1 billion a year for roads and bridges, replenishing the state's depleted transportation trust fund (pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); CONSERVATISM (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (63%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (60%); ONCOLOGY (60%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



634 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: At Hearing, Longshoremen and Environmentalists Clash Over Dumping

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: FORT MONMOUTH, N.J., Jan. 24

 BODY:
A small group of environmentalists that is seeking to stop the dumping of dredged material into the ocean off Sandy Hook squared off raucously today with more than 2,000 angry longshoremen, who turned out in support of a four-year-old agreement crucial to port jobs.
The setting was a hearing in an Army base auditorium by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, where the longshoremen, many of whom spilled into the parking lot, shouted down and booed opponents of ocean dumping. An official with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said the turnout by the longshoremen -- who said they took the day off without pay -- had effectively closed the region's ports to loading and unloading as of noon. 
 But about 200 opponents, including officials of shore communities, a Congressman, sport fishermen and a Boy Scout troop from Oceanport, seemed unintimidated, often giving as good as they got when officials from the International Longshoremen's Association stood to speak.
The opponents' numbers increased during an evening session of the hearing, as shore residents came home from work. But the session grew so noisy that the meeting was ended prematurely, about 8:15 p.m., said Pete H. Shugert, the public affairs officer of the Army Corps of Engineers. He said the meeting was ended "for safety reasons, and because there was not an opportunity for a free exchange of information."
At issue was the agreement among unions, port businesses, government agencies and environmentalists that was reached in negotiations presided over by Vice President Al Gore in 1996. The deal ended a spate of lawsuits over the dumping about six miles off Sandy Hook, which had blocked the dredging of 240 miles of channels in the New York and New Jersey port region for years.
The environmental group involved in the negotiations, Clean Ocean Action, is charging that the federal government and port interests have reneged on the agreement's goal of a cleaner ocean by failing to tighten restrictions on what can safely be dumped into the ocean and by failing to speed development of alternatives to dumping. The group says materials are being dumped with levels of some contaminants that are higher than those already at the dump site, which they say is a violation of the agreement brokered by Vice President Gore. "How can you clean up a toxic stain with materials that are dirtier than what is there?" asked the group's executive director, Cynthia Zipf, shouting over the boos and catcalls of the longshoremen. "We will not sit by and allow you to bring back the barbaric days of ocean dumping."
Clean Ocean Action and its allies, including United States Representative Frank Pallone Jr., a Democrat of Long Branch, said that they wanted the Army Corps of Engineers to rescind two recently granted permits to dump material dredged from two New York City port locations, the Castle Astoria fuel depot in Queens and the Brooklyn Army Terminal near Red Hook. Ms. Zipf said that if the federal agency did not stop the two projects, the group's lawyers would sue.
The union says the environmental groups are reneging on the four-year-old pact. "A deal is a deal," shouted John Bowers, president of the 80,000-member International Longshoremen's Association. "We want to make certain that the billions of dollars in cargo that fuels the economy of the harbor and the region can continue to move, and the stakes are too great to let the wrong signals be sent to port employers."
Under the agreement, dumping of dredged material at the site off the coast of New Jersey was restricted to material that met federal Environmental Protection Agency standards as nontoxic and not likely to cause chemicals such as mercury, cadmium, lead and dioxins to find their way into fish and eventually the food chain. The agreement does not appear to call for any specific tightening of those restrictions, as the environmentalists contend.
Mary Mears, a spokesman for the regional office of the federal environmental agency, as well as officials of the Port Authority, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and the Army Corps of Engineers, have said that the material being opposed by Ms. Zipf and other opponents meets E.P.A. standards.
That is because although the dredged material being dumped at the site may contain higher levels of some contaminants than are already present, most of the contaminants are at lower levels, officials said. That is consistent with the deal brokered by Mr. Gore, they said.
Outside the auditorium, Michael Svorini, a longshoreman since 1972 at the Global Marine Terminal in Jersey City, said: "If they stop the dredging, it won't just affect us. It will affect truck drivers and warehouse workers. Ships won't come here if we can't dredge because they can only make money if they keep moving."
Inside the auditorium, Lois Gallini, a Wall Township resident, waved a sign proclaiming herself an "Environmentalist for a Working Port." She said the waters were "where our children swim, and I remember when my son years ago would come home with all kinds of rashes from the bacteria."
Both sides in the dispute were critical of New York State's efforts. Opponents of dredging noted that New Jersey had developed land-based alternatives for some of the more toxic and contaminated material, while New York had yet to do that.
Jennifer Post, a spokeswoman for the New York Department of Environmental Conservation, dismissed such concerns. While New York had yet to come up with a specific disposal site on land, she said that the state was looking for one while spending millions of dollars to reduce pollution of the port waters.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Longshoremen shouted down opponents of ocean dumping in a clash at a hearing at an Army base auditorium in Fort Monmouth, N.J. The longshoremen turned out to back a four-year-old agreement crucial to port jobs. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); INTERNATIONAL LONGSHOREMEN'S ASSOCIATION (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); INTERNATIONAL LONGSHOREMEN'S ASSOCIATION (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); OCEANS (78%); LANDFILLS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); LITIGATION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); SPORT FISHING (53%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (56%); FRANK PALLONE JR (52%); BARNEY FRANK (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



635 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Justices Uphold Ceiling of $1,000 On Political Gifts

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Ruling in a Missouri campaign finance case with important national implications, the Supreme Court today decisively upheld limits on political contributions and rejected the argument that the $1,000 limit it upheld 24 years ago no longer buys enough political speech to be constitutional.
The 6-to-3 decision left states with considerable latitude to adopt the $1,000 limit upheld in the court's much-disputed 1976 Buckley v. Valeo decision, or to experiment with lower caps, as many states recently have. 
 The test, the court said in a majority opinion by Justice David H. Souter, is not any fixed or indexed dollar amount, but whether a contribution limit was so low "as to render political association ineffective, drive the sound of a candidate's voice below the level of notice, and render contributions pointless." Missouri's $1,000 cap met this test without running afoul of the First Amendment, the court said. Excerpts, page A16.
The decision overturned a 1998 ruling by the federal appeals court in St. Louis, which declared the Missouri limit unconstitutional on the ground that it was too low -- $1,000 in 1976 being the equivalent of less than $400 today -- and that the state had failed to provide proof of problems resulting from large contributions. Had the justices agreed with the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, the federal campaign finance system, which also has a $1,000 limit, and those of many states would have been thrown into turmoil.
The closely watched case did not call on the justices to reconsider the Buckley v. Valeo decision as a whole or even to address its most widely criticized element, its holding that campaign expenditures, as opposed to contributions, represent the highest form of political speech and may not be limited. Many people have blamed the decision for the tide of independent expenditures as well as unregulated "soft money" contributions that appear increasingly likely to swamp the political system. Advocates of new federal limits on campaign contributions said the ruling strengthened their hand. Page A16.
The limit applies to donations from individuals to any single candidate for federal office per election.
 In a dissenting opinion today, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy declared that "Buckley has not worked," having "created a misshapen system" that has "forced a substantial amount of political speech underground." Justice Clarence Thomas dissented as well, declaring in an opinion that Justice Antonin Scalia also signed that Missouri's contribution limits were "patently unconstitutional" and that Buckley v. Valeo should be overruled.
But while the question before the court was limited to the contribution question, the various opinions today contained some intriguing tea leaves for the future.
A concurring opinion by Justice Stephen G. Breyer, joined by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, suggested that the court should give the political branches considerable leeway in sorting out a difficult question on which "a legislature has significantly greater institutional expertise" than a court.
Within the existing Buckley framework, laws regulating soft money might well be upheld, Justice Breyer said. Alternatively, he said, the decision could be reinterpreted "in light of the post-Buckley experience" to make "less absolute the contribution/expenditure line, particularly in respect to independently wealthy candidates, whose expenditures might be considered contributions to their own campaigns."
But if the precedent did not prove sufficiently flexible, Justice Breyer concluded, "I believe the Constitution would require us to reconsider Buckley."
Among the other members of the court, Justice John Paul Stevens indicated in a concurring opinion that he, too, would be ready to uphold limits on money in politics well beyond those upheld in the Buckley decision. "Money is property; it is not speech," Justice Stevens said, in a comment that rejected the essential equation of money and speech that was the analytical foundation of Buckley v. Valeo.
And Justice Kennedy, in his dissenting opinion, distanced himself from his two fellow dissenters with a paragraph that startled those who thought they understood the dimensions of his near-absolutist view of political speech. "I would leave open the possibility that Congress, or a state legislature, might devise a system in which there are some limits on both expenditures and contributions, thus permitting officeholders to concentrate their time and efforts on official duties rather than on fund-raising," Justice Kennedy said.
In recent campaign finance decisions, only Justices Stevens and Ginsburg had shown a willingness to revisit the Buckley v. Valeo dichotomy between contributions and expenditures, so supporters of limits on expenditures and soft money, while acknowledging that they still could not count on a court majority, detected significant forward movement.
"Reality infuses these opinions," one such advocate, E. Joshua Rosenkranz, executive director of the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University Law School, said in an interview. "The court is taking account of what's going on out there. We're in far better shape than we were before this decision."
Nicole A. Gordon, executive director of the New York City Campaign Finance Board, a city agency that administers the public financing of local political races, said the decision had produced "a collective sigh of relief from the reform community" that not only did the court not reject contribution limits, as some had forecast, but now appeared open to arguments on behalf of new limits.
While there is no immediate next test looming for the court, cases in the pipeline could provide one. Expenditure limits adopted in 1995 by the state legislature in Vermont are being challenged in Federal District Court in Burlington. Under the state's limits for gubernatorial races, for example, the challenger may spend no more than $300,000 while an incumbent seeking re-election is limited to 85 percent of what the challenger spends.
Unlike the other members of the majority, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Sandra Day O'Connor joined Justice Souter's opinion, Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC, No. 98-963, without further elaboration. The majority opinion studiously avoided speculation about the future. Justice Souter, acknowledging the calls of his colleagues for overruling Buckley v. Valeo, said: "The answer is that we are supposed to decide this case." He noted that the broader question was not before the court.
The challenge to the Missouri contribution limit, adopted by the state Legislature in 1994, was brought by a former candidate for state auditor and a political action committee that supported him. The candidate, Zev David Fredman , argued that the limit was so low that, as an insurgent, he could not exercise his First Amendment right to mount an effective campaign.
Mr. Fredman's victory in the appeals court threatened to unsettle many states' contribution limits on two levels: first, under the notion that inflation should be taken into account in assessing a limit's adequacy, and second, by demanding a level of evidence of corruption beyond what the Supreme Court had required when it upheld the federal limits in Buckley v. Valeo.
In his opinion today, Justice Souter said the Eighth Circuit's view that inflation must be taken into account reflected a "fundamental misunderstanding" of Buckley v. Valeo as having adopted any particular level as a minimum. And on the question of evidence, he said, "this case does not present a close call." Justice Souter said "there is little reason to doubt" that large contributions can be corrupting, or can be seen as such by voters.
As a matter of constitutional doctrine, there was considerable wrestling over how to define the First Amendment standard of review for the limits in question, an issue on which the Buckley precedent was imprecise. The majority held today that the strictest judicial scrutiny need not apply to contribution limits.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "STATE BY STATE: Limiting Campaign Contributions"
Thirty-four states have limits on campaign contributions by individuals in addition to the limits in Missouri, which were upheld yesterday by the Supreme Court.
(Source: National Conference of State Legislatures)(pg. A16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FR (PAR) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: VALEO SA (57%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MISSOURI, USA (95%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: ANTHONY KENNEDY (59%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); DAVID SOUTER (58%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



636 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
U.S. Concludes Pakistan Had Ties to Hijackers
Clinton administration officials said the United States believed that a terrorist group supported by the Pakistani military was responsible for the hijacking of an Indian Airlines jet last month, a judgment that puts Pakistan at risk of being placed on Washington's list of nations that support terrorism. A1 

Battle at Thai Hospital
Guerrillas from neighboring Myanmar, who are led by 12-year-old twin boys, took about 800 patients and staff members hostage in a Thai hospital. Thai forces stormed the hospital and freed the hostages. A1
 
More Kohl Party Funds Found
An audit of Germany's Christian Democratic Union found more than $6.3 million in illicit contributions under former Chancellor Helmut Kohl. The study also showed that the $1 million that Mr. Kohl has admitted receiving from 1993 to 1998 followed earlier and larger payments. A4
 
Suspicions on Use of U.S. Aid
Some of the American money awarded to support Russia's civilian biological research was secretly shifted to Biopreparat, which once directed the Soviet Union's germ weapons program, according to several Russian scientists. A6
 
Russia Misjudged War Costs
A senior Russian official said Russia spent 50 percent more for the war in Chechnya last year than it planned, acknowledging that the Kremlin had underestimated the cost of fighting Islamic rebels there. A6
 
Runoff for Croatia President
Stipe Mesic, left, a former Communist leader, took a commanding lead in voting to succeed the late president, Franjo Tudjman, but not enough to avoid a Feb. 7 runoff. A4
 
Way Cleared in Tribunal Case
The Supreme Court cleared the way for the United States to send a Rwandan church leader to a war crimes tribunal, where he faces charges of abetting genocide in 1994. A3
 
U.N. Talks on Congo Peace Pact
Laurent Kabila, president of Congo, pledged at the United Nations to cooperate with international efforts to end a civil war in his country. A3
 
World Briefing A10
 
NATIONAL A12-21
 
Favorites Bush and Gore Prevail in Iowa Caucuses
Gov. George W. Bush gained a clear victory in the Iowa Republican caucuses, but his two closest competitors, Steve Forbes and Alan Keyes, who had appealed to religious conservatives, drew strong support. In the Democratic contest, Vice President Al Gore defeated former Senator Bill Bradley. A1
 
Campaign Limits Upheld
The Supreme Court, ruling 6 to 3 in a Missouri case, upheld limits on political contributions and rejected the argument that the effectiveness of the $1,000 limit it upheld 24 years ago had been diluted by inflation. A1
 
The court ruled, 5 to 4, that the Justice Department must approve districting changes, even those adopted with a discriminatory purpose, as long as minority voters are left in no worse a position than previously. A18
 
The court backed away from deciding whether death in Florida's electric chair is a "cruel and unusual punishment" forbidden by the Constitution, noting that Florida had made injection standard. A18
 
Clinton Pay-Equity Proposal
President Clinton asked Congress to approve a $27 million plan to bolster enforcement of equal-pay laws. A18
 
Narrowing Field for Agency
Officials said Donna E. Shalala, secretary of Health and Human Services, had identified two neuroscientists, Dr. Gerald D. Fischbach and Dr. Steven E. Hyman, as her candidates for director of the National Institutes of Health. President Clinton will select a nominee and send the name to the Senate for confirmation. A14
 
A Fruitless Journey to Miami
The grandmothers of the 6-year-old Cuban boy Elian Gonzalez went to Miami in hope of a meeting with him, but after waiting several hours in a suburban airport flew back to Washington. In Congress, two Florida Republicans introduced bills to make Elian a citizen. A12
 
$5 Billion More to Charity
The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation said Mr. Gates, the Microsoft founder, and his wife had given $5 billion to their philanthropic foundation, making it the world's wealthiest, with assets of $21.8 billion. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Whitman Offers Budget Built on New Jersey Boom
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman proposed her biggest budget yet, a $21.2 billion plan that increases spending by $1.3 billion for a host of new programs, tax cuts and ambitious school and highway construction projects. B1
 
Return to Seton Hall
Residents of Boland Hall, the freshman dormitory where the blaze that killed three students last week broke out, were allowed to return. B1
 
Diallo Family in Washington
The parents of Amadou Diallo, accompanied by the Rev. Al Sharpton and Representative Charles Rangel, met with Justice Department officials to press for federal monitoring of the state murder trial of the four police officers charged with murdering Mr. Diallo last year. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-12
 
Mapping the Earth in 3-D
The shuttle Endeavour, which is to begin an 11-day mission on Monday, will use radar to make the most detailed three-dimensional map of Earth's surface yet. F1
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
ARTS E1-10
 
Book Critics' Nominees
Rita Dove, poet laureate of the United States from 1993 to 1995; J. M. Coetzee, the latest winner of the Booker Prize, and Jorge Luis Borges, Argentina's most famous writer, were nominated for National Book Critics Circle Awards. E10
 
FASHION B10
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
Bob Squier
An originator of modern political imagery and a close friend of Vice President Al Gore, he was 65. B9
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-26
P.& G. Takes a Walk
Procter & Gamble ended merger talks with Warner-Lambert and American Home Products after investors panned the combination and Procter suffered its worst stock price decline since the 1987 crash. C1
 
New No. 2 at Disney
Robert A. Iger, 48, left, was named president and chief operating officer, second-in-command to Chairman Michael Eisner, in a restructuring of the top management at Walt Disney. C1
 
Big Losses for Stock Markets
The Dow Jones recorded its fifth consecutive loss, falling 243.54 points, or 2.2 percent, to 11,008.17. The S.& P. 500 fell 39.83 points, or 2.8 percent, to 1,401.53, and the Nasdaq tumbled 139.32 points, or 3.3 percent, to 4096.08. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Jets Coach Takes the Job
Al Groh was formally installed as the jets head coach. Bill Belichick, who served as coach for one day, sued the Jets and the N.F.L. to try to free himself of his Jets contract. D1
 
Chiefs' Linebacker Injured
Derrick Thomas, 33, the Kansas City linebacker was hospitalized with a fractured spine and paralyzed legs after an auto accident. D4
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Iowa speaks; Ecuador's endangered democracy; Michael M. Weinstein on the budget surplus.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Gail Collins.
 
Crossword E6
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather C25
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); RWANDA (79%); THAILAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INDIAN AIRLINES (58%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (56%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (56%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); RWANDA (79%); THAILAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); CROATIA (79%); IOWA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES HIJACKING (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (88%); RELIGION (88%); APPEALS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); WAR CRIMES (67%); GENOCIDE (63%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



637 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Ecuador's Endangered Democracy

 BODY:
Military meddling in politics has become rare in Latin America during the past two decades. But Ecuador is a conspicuous and worrisome exception. Last weekend's forcible removal of President Jamil Mahuad is disturbing, especially since it is the second time in less than three years that an elected Ecuadorean leader has been prematurely ousted from office. Ominously, on both occasions the army played a decisive role in shaping the presidential succession.
At the end of a confused weekend of maneuvering capped by strong warnings from Washington against the establishment of a military regime, Vice President Gustavo Noboa Bejarano has been sworn in as president. Ecuador's government thus remains in civilian, constitutional hands. But democracy's future there looks tenuous. Washington must be ready for further turmoil as Ecuador steers its way through a difficult economic and political crisis. 
 Mr. Mahuad, who won a majority in presidential runoff elections barely 18 months ago, saw his popularity plunge to 9 percent as Ecuador's chronically ailing economy slipped beyond his control. Blocked by an impasse with a politically fractured Congress from enacting needed tax increases on the wealthy and reforms of an inefficient public sector, Mr. Mahuad stood by helplessly as inflation raged, unemployment soared, banks tottered and half of Ecuador's foreign debt passed into default.
In desperation, Mr. Mahuad announced earlier this month that he would replace Ecuador's battered currency with the dollar. Many Ecuadoreans, especially the large and impoverished Indian minority, feared that converting to dollars would lead to painful reductions in their already low living standards.
Last Friday thousands of Indians marched on Congress. Army guards stepped aside, leaving Mr. Mahuad besieged in the presidential palace. Two military-civilian juntas were named in rapid succession. Then, after the Clinton administration strongly condemned the unfolding coup and threatened the new regime with economic isolation, the military handed power back to Mr. Noboa, the elected vice president.
Washington's timely diplomatic intervention was constructive. But real stability will not return until Ecuador's leaders, starting with Mr. Noboa, address the country's fundamental economic problems. Tax revenues must be fairly increased, corruption prosecuted and public-sector subsidies sharply reduced.
Austerity measures such as these will be hard to apply until the government broadens its popular legitimacy and wins the confidence of the Indian population. Meanwhile, Ecuador's political parties have to recognize that their incessant infighting is discrediting civilian rule and dangerously increasing the political power of military commanders. They must show themselves capable of serious reforms before outside creditors can be approached for further debt relief. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS ARMY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS ARMY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); COUPS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



638 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Looking to New Hampshire, Gore Outlines New Strategy

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Four months after he acknowledged that his campaign was in serious trouble, Vice President Al Gore stood on a stage here and with confetti plastered to the side of his face, claimed his first success of the 2000 presidential campaign, a resounding 2-to-1 victory over Bill Bradley.
"We've just begun to fight," Mr. Gore yelled to a crowd of more than 600 people at the Iowa State Fairgrounds as his wife, Tipper, pranced at his side. 
 In his victory speech, he quickly turned his attention to the race ahead in New Hampshire and signaled a "new phase" in his campaign strategy. He said he would be campaigning not only on the current economic prosperity but also on the idea that the country could do even better than its current record-breaking economic expansion.
After months of often-harsh attacks against Mr. Bradley, Mr. Gore referred to him only glancingly tonight and seemed more interested in talking about the Republicans. He said Mr. Bradley had asked Iowa audiences if they were better off today than they were seven years ago, then told the crowd here that clearly they were but that that was not the right question.
"The question is, Can we do even better?" Mr. Gore asked. "I believe the answer is yes."
He said the Republicans -- specifically Gov. George W. Bush of Texas and the publisher Steve Forbes -- would ruin the country with irresponsible tax cuts.
Now, as the race shifts to New Hampshire, Mr. Gore's aides said his message would shift from the heavy focus here on agriculture to the booming New England economy. Mr. Gore plans to tell New Hampshire voters that while the Clinton-Gore administration has done wonders for the economy, there is more to do.
New Hampshire should be especially receptive to this message since it was losing 10,000 jobs a year in 1992 when Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore first ran, and it is now gaining 16,000 jobs a year. Moreover, aides said, focusing on the economy will help Mr. Gore deliver a "positive" message.
Bob Shrum, a top Gore adviser, said: "What the Clinton-Gore administration has done over the last seven years economically helps Al Gore a lot, and I think President Clinton will be a very valuable asset during the campaign."
Still, campaign aides said it was Mr. Gore's support for farmers and his knowledge of agricultural issues that he leveraged into his lead here over Mr. Bradley.
Referring to the Jan. 8 debate in which Mr. Gore said Mr. Bradley did not support various issues important to Iowa and farmers, his spokesman, Chris Lehane, said: "That was a crystallizing moment. Al Gore showed that he was fighting for Iowa and Bill Bradley showed he wasn't."
Mr. Gore said the town meetings in Iowa and New Hampshire helped him sharpen his campaign.
"The total immersion in this process has been something that I think has been very good for me," Mr. Gore said tonight. "I have been able to communicate more effectively because of what I've learned from the people of Iowa and New Hampshire." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); AGRICULTURE (63%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (60%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



639 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE CHALLENGER;
Bradley Says Campaign Is on the Right Path

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: AMES, Iowa, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Despite concerns among some aides about the state of his campaign, former Senator Bill Bradley said today that he was more convinced than ever that the course he chartered for his presidential campaign more than a year ago was fundamentally correct.
In recent weeks, Mr. Bradley's insurgent campaign has been battered by negative news coverage and falling poll numbers, and many political analysts have argued that he has not been sharp enough in drawing distinctions with Mr. Gore or aggressive enough in responding to the vice president's repeated attacks. Mr. Bradley ended up with 35 percent of the vote, compared with Mr. Gore's 63 percent. 
 Even some of his aides have recently raised questions about the campaign's tactics in Iowa, complaining that it had been late getting organized, slow to respond to Mr. Gore's criticisms and inadequate in preparing for debates. One adviser described Iowa as a "shakedown tour" for the Bradley organization.
But in an interview today just before the Iowa caucuses, Mr. Bradley suggested that if anything he had been too negative in his battle with Mr. Gore, arguing that the "rat-a-tat-tat" of the race might have turned off voters and drawn attention from his own idealistic call to reform politics and end poverty.
"If you were trying to do a cookie-cutter campaign where you go negative on somebody, there's a little textbook that you take that says, chapter four, going negative, here are the five things you do," Mr. Bradley said.
"What adds to cynicism in politics is negative campaigning and attack ads," he added.
But even as Mr. Bradley contends that he will try to stay above the messy fray, his aides said they recognized that they, and Mr. Bradley's prominent supporters, will need to strike back faster and perhaps more fiercely against Mr. Gore when he goes on the offensive.
Indeed, the Bradley campaign began running a television advertisement in New Hampshire today in which Niki Tsongas, widow of former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, accused the Gore campaign of distorting Mr. Bradley's record. During the 1992 presidential campaign, Mr. Tsongas made similar accusations against Bill Clinton.
Mr. Bradley said he realized his campaign had drifted from its moorings last week when he heard the story of a New Hampshire woman whose teenage son apologized for getting sick because the family had no health insurance. Her story, which brought tears to his eyes, "recentered" him on the reasons he had entered the race, particularly to create a system of near universal health insurance, he said.
"Sometimes in the rat-a-tat-tat of politics, in the rush of the media and the emphasis on tactics, you lose sight of why you're in this," he said. But there may also be political reasons for Mr. Bradley's wanting to step back from attacking Mr. Gore. Two weeks ago, Mr. Bradley had been sharpening his criticism of the vice president, even attacking a 15-year-old Senate vote by Mr. Gore that helped the tobacco industry. But many analysts said Mr. Bradley's attacks gave a sense of desperation in his camp.
Mr. Gore has also toned down his criticism of Mr. Bradley in recent days. Asked whether he would return fire if Mr. Gore started attacking him again in New Hampshire, site of the nation's first primary next Tuesday, Mr. Bradley replied, "You always have the option, of course, to adopt the atomic bomb. But the point is, I'm going to try to keep this thing positive."
To both his critics and supporters, Mr. Bradley's refusal to aggressively attack Mr. Gore recalls his 1990 re-election campaign, where he was slow to respond to criticism by his opponent, Christine Todd Whitman, and almost lost the New Jersey Senate race. Some political analysts argued that the race showed that Mr. Bradley was too headstrong to adjust his strategies to deal with unforeseen or shifting circumstances.
But Mr. Bradley denied that he was inflexible, saying: "I think there should be a distinction drawn between being inflexible and being rooted. I'm rooted in what I know what I believe and what I know I want to do. I'm flexible in how I want to achieve it."
He said he had no plans to change significantly his basic stump speech in the coming weeks. But Mr. Bradley offered a glimpse today of the message he intended to emphasize in New Hampshire: that he would be better at maintaining the nation's prosperity because he has a track record of predicting changes in the economy. Mr. Bradley referred to his early support in the 1980's for cutting the deficit, reducing Third World debt and simplifying the tax code.
Mr. Bradley also said he would increasingly highlight the economic benefits of his health care proposal, which he said would provide the equivalent of a $25 billion-a-year tax cut for people earning less than $50,000 a year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, who had endorsed Bill Bradley for the Democratic nomination, hugged Mr. Bradley's wife, Ernestine Schlant, last night in Des Moines as Mr. Bradley prepared to address supporters. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); RODENTS (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); NIKI TSONGAS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



640 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
SARGENT, DAVID RUTLEDGE

 BODY:
SARGENT-David Rutledge. Financial publisher and civic leader, died on January 22 of complications from Parkinson's disease. He was 79 years old. Mr. Sargent, former president of United Business Service of Boston, was a resident of Wellesley, MA from 1947 until he retired to his family farm in Norwich, VT, in 1992. An active public servant in his town and the greater Boston area, he served Wellesley for more that twenty years as town meeting member, member and chairman of the Wellesley School Committee and the Select Board, as well as Town Moderator. He was Chairman of Wellesley Red Feather in 1955, the forerunner of the United Fund, and also served on its greater Boston Board. In 1966, he was a cofounder of Metco, the Metropolitan Council for Educational Opportunity, which organized volunteer busing of Boston children to suburban schools. He was a gubernatorial appointee to several state committees on economic policy. During the same period, he served as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Peter Bent Brigham, now known as Brigham and Women's Hospital. From 1983-1993, he was a member of the Board of the Hitchcock Clinic and a trustee of Mary Hitchcock Memorial Hospital. Born December 21, 1920 in Orange, NJ, he entered Dartmouth College from Hastings on Hudson, NY's high school, graduating in 1942. He was an active alumnus and was class secretary from 1982-1988. After college, Mr. Sargent joined the military serving from 1942-45 as an R.A.F. pilot and U.S. Air Force flying instructor. He joined United Business Service in 1946, and became president in 1961. An author of two books on personal finances, he was also a nationally syndicated columnist in the 1980's. A man of tremendous wit and energy, his life was enriched by his wide variety of interests. Mr. Sargent was an accomplished tennis player and bicyclist. When he was 60 years old, he rode his bicycle across the state of Iowa in the annual Ragbrai bike ride, sponsored by the Des Moines Register. An avid birder and outdoorsman, he canoed many local rivers and could identify most birds by sight and sound. He had a restless intellect, which fueled his passion for books, learning, and verbal debate. He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Jane Oman; two daughters, Karen Sirkin of Wayland, MA; Anne Walker of Wellesley, MA; and four sons, Dwight Sargent of Norwich, VT; Carl Sargent of Boston, MA; David Sargent Jr. of Norwich, VT; and Thomas Sargent of Wellesley, MA; and ten grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Memorial donations may be made to: American Parkinson Disease Association, 1250 Hylan Blvd., Suite 4B, Staten Island, NY 10305, The Visiting Nurse Alliance of VT and N.H., 46 South Main Street, White River Junction, VT 05001, Norwich Conservation Trust Fund, Norwich Conservation Commission, PO Box 376, Norwich, VT 05055. Information: Rand-Wilson Funeral Home of Hanover, NH. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (51%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DES MOINES REGISTER (52%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (51%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (89%); WRITERS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); BIRDS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (73%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); AIR FORCES (69%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); GOVERNORS (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (67%); SPONSORSHIP (67%); BIRDING (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ARMED FORCES (64%); SUBURBS (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); ATHLETES (50%); 

PERSON: SARGENT, DAVID RUTLEDGE SARGENT-DAVID RUTLEDGE (90%); PETER BENT BRIGHAM (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



641 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F;Page 5;Column 2;Science Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Paradox in Game Theory: Losing Strategy That Wins

BYLINE: By SANDRA BLAKESLEE

 BODY:
A Spanish physicist has discovered what appears to be a new law of nature that may help explain, among other things, how life arose out of a primordial soup and why investing in losing stocks can sometimes lead to greater capital gains.
Called Parrando's paradox, the law states that two games guaranteed to make a player lose all his money can generate a winning streak if played alternately. 
 Named after its discoverer, Dr. Juan Parrando, who teaches physics at the Complutense University in Madrid, the newly discovered paradox is inspired by the mechanical properties of ratchets -- the familiar saw-tooth tools used in automobile jacks and in self-winding wristwatches.
By translating the properties of a ratchet into game theory, the scientific discipline that seeks to extract rules of nature from the gains and losses observed in games, Dr. Parrando discovered that two losing games could combine to produce winnings.
"The importance of the paradox in real life remains to be seen," said Dr. Charles Doering, a mathematician at the University of Michigan, who is familiar with the research.
"It gives us a new and unexpected view of a variety of phenomena," he said, "and who knows? Sometimes finding that one piece of the puzzle makes the whole picture suddenly clear," Dr. Doering said.
Dr. Derek Abbott, director of the Center for Biomedical Engineering at the University of Adelaide in Australia, said that many scientists were intrigued by the paradox and had begun applying it to engineering, population dynamics, financial risk and other disciplines.
Dr. Abbott and a colleague at his center, Dr. Gregory Harmer, recently carried out experiments to verify and explain how Parrando's paradox works.
Their research is described in a recent issue of the journal Nature.
The paradox is illustrated by two games played with coins weighted on one side so that they will not fall by chance to heads or tails.
In game A, a player tosses a single loaded coin and bets on each throw. The probability of winning is less than half.
In game B, there are two coins and the rules are more complicated. The player tosses either Coin 1, loaded to lose almost all the time or Coin 2 loaded to win more than half the time. He plays Coin 1 if his money is a multiple of a particular whole number, like three.
If his money cannot be divided evenly by that number, he plays Coin 2. In this setup, the second coin will be played more often than the first.
"Sure enough," Dr. Abbott said, when a person plays either game A or game B 100 times, all money taken to the gambling table is lost. But when the games are alternated -- playing A twice and B twice for 100 times -- money is not lost. It accumulates into big winnings. Even more surprising, he said, when game A and B are played randomly, with no order in the alternating sequence, winnings also go up and up.
Because these results seem so surprising, the outcome is paradoxical -- Parrando's paradox. Switching between the two games seemed to create a ratchet-like effect. With its saw-tooth shape, a ratchet allows movement in one direction and blocks it in the other.
"You see ratchets everywhere in life," Dr. Abbott said. "Any child knows that when you shake a bag of mixed nuts, the Brazil nuts rise to the top. This is because smaller nuts block downward movement of larger nuts." This trapping of heavier objects -- moving them upward when one would expect them to fall down -- is the essence of a ratchet.
The same is true for particles that tend to move randomly within cells but can be captured, or ratcheted, into performing useful work. This is how many proteins and enzymes are designed, Dr. Abbott said.
Sharing an interest in microscopic ratchets, Dr. Abbott and Dr. Parrando met in a coffee shop in Madrid in 1997 to discuss the phenomenon. They started to wonder what might happen with a so-called flashing ratchet.
First, they imagined two tilted slopes that could be laid on top of each other or held apart. One is smooth and straight, the other saw-toothed.
Particles placed at the top of either slope would fall down to the bottom under the pull of gravity. Particles placed at the bottom of either slope would go nowhere. But if the two slopes were superimposed and alternated or "flashed" back and forth, particles resting at the bottom could be made to move uphill.
Dr. Parrando then translated a flashing ratchet into the language of game theory. Then, he devised the two coin games. Dr. Abbott confirmed their outcomes in recent experiments. Game A is like the smooth slope. The single loaded coin produces steady losses, just like particles sliding straight downhill. Game B is like the saw-tooth slope that can catch objects. Each tooth on a ratchet has two sides, one that goes up and one that goes down. The two coins, one good and one bad, are like two sides of a single saw-tooth. In a computer, the games are played 100 times, mimicking a ratchet with many teeth.
When the games are run in a computer, Dr. Abbott said, capital starts accumulating. Switching the game traps any winnings before new rounds of the game can cause the money to be lost.
Unfortunately, Parrando's paradox will not work for the kinds of games played in casinos, Dr. Abbott said. Games A and B must be set up to copy a ratchet, which means they must have some direct interaction. In the experiments carried out by Dr. Abbott, game B depends on the amount of capital being played and game A affects those amounts. They are subtly connected, he said.
Parrando's paradox may help scientists find new ways to separate molecules, design tiny motors and understand games of survival being played at the level of individual genes. Life itself may have been bootstrapped by ratchets, Dr. Abbott said. When simple amino acids were formed by chance, environmental forces would tend to destroy incipient order. Factors that acted like ratchets could prevent that destruction, helping move life along its evolutionary pathways toward greater complexity.
Economists are studying Parrando's paradox to help find the best strategies for managing investments. Dr. Sergei Maslov, a physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton, N.Y., recently showed that if an investor simultaneously shared capital between two losing stock portfolios, capital would increase rather than decrease. "It's mind-boggling," Dr. Maslov said. "You can turn two minuses into a plus." But so far, he said, it is too early to apply his model to the real stock market because of its complexity.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Jan. 25 about a paradox in game theory, a discipline that seeks to extract rules of nature from the gains and losses observed in games, misspelled the name of its discoverer. He is Dr. Juan Parrondo, not Parrando.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); AUSTRALIA (54%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA (54%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); AUSTRALIA (54%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. PHYSICS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); BIOMEDICINE (69%); 

PERSON: DEREK ABBOTT (92%); JUAN PARRANDO (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000



642 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 10; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
A Political Showdown At Gamy Tammany Hall

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LOPATE; Phillip Lopate edited the recent anthology "Writing New York."

 BODY:

ONCE UPON A TIME IN NEW YORK
Jimmy Walker, Franklin Roosevelt
and the Last Great Battle
of the Jazz Age
By Herbert Mitgang
Illustrated. 259 pages. Free Press. $25.
Corruption and reform -- that cha-cha-cha of big city rule -- have come to seem as embedded in New York's deep structure as the grid plan of its streets. Underpaid civil servants will occasionally take bribes; political kingpins like Boss Tweed of Tammany Hall will build patronage empires, meanwhile feathering their nests until such time as ambitious do-gooders arouse the outrage of the sleeping populace.
Herbert Mitgang's lively "Once Upon a Time in New York" restages one of the classic confrontations in the city's history: on the one hand the dapper, immensely likable if venal mayor, Jimmy Walker, and his earthy cronies in the Tammany machine; on the other hand the virtuous if priggish Judge Samuel Seabury, investigating municipal corruption, and his ally, the patrician governor, Franklin Delano Roosevelt. In the wings stood Fiorello H. La Guardia, ready to take over the mayoralty if Walker should fall. The wild card was ex-Gov. Al Smith, a onetime liberal hero who had been defeated for president and, resenting Roosevelt's presidential ambitions, threw his support to Walker. 
 Mr. Mitgang, a former writer for The New York Times and author or editor of 15 books, knows this territory well, having already written a book on Judge Seabury. If the current volume feels like something of a rehash, revisiting favorite anecdotes and scandals, Mr. Mitgang is certainly a most reliable guide, a true Gotham maven. All the colorful Jazz Age characters you would hope to see make their appearance: the gambler Arnold Rothstein and the madam Polly Adler, F. Scott Fitzgerald and Jack Dempsey, Walter Winchell and the saloonkeeper Texas Guinan.
The rapid bark of Winchell and the streetwise ironies of Damon Runyon echo in Mr. Mitgang's journalistic prose: "Legs owned a piece of the Hotsy Totsy Club, a Prohibition joint on 54th Street and Broadway. There he could be seen with his girlfriend, Kiki Roberts, a Ziegfeld Follies looker whose actual name was Marion Strasmick."
In reaching too constantly for a bright cleverness, he can sound glib, calling Walker "a dude for all seasons," or piling up figures of speech, however clashing: "Eventually, the economic boom that began after the First World War began to run out of steam. Yet even when prosperity failed to appear just around the corner, Mayor Walker continued to trip the light fantastic."
This is popular history, longer on vignette than analysis. What makes it worthwhile are Mr. Mitgang's shrewd insights into local politics -- the implications of each player's chess move for future elections -- and the deft way he sets up the protagonists of his story and orchestrates them cunningly for the final showdown.
The nightclub-hopping Walker, openly escorting his mistress, a showgirl named Betty Compton, seems to have been one of those officials, like Adam Clayton Powell Jr. or Bill Clinton, who charms the electorate by their peccadilloes. A politician perfectly suited to the good times of the Jazz Age, Walker identified himself with the people, vacationing on the Riviera in their stead. His failing was that he could see no further than his own popularity, even when the Depression called for a different, more imaginative response.
Roosevelt, who had struck the pundit Walter Lippmann and others as a lightweight (they doubted that he would show the moral fiber to stand up to Tammany), surprised everyone. Using his prerogative as governor, he served as judge and jury in special hearings, where he interrogated Walker, with the aid of Judge Seabury's investigative findings, and essentially forced the mayor to resign.
In doing so, Mr. Mitgang writes, Roosevelt passed an important test of character that prepared him to win the presidency, an attempt to govern on this premise: "The hopes of the Republic cannot forever tolerate either undeserved poverty or self-serving wealth."
For all that is said in Walker's behalf, it is clear whom the author regards as the good guys: Roosevelt and Seabury. Stressing the ironies of class, he sees the blue bloods as defending the working poor and unemployed and the politicians who rose from the sidewalks of New York as their predators. Some revisionist historians have argued for Tammany Hall as protector of the poor and the immigrant, and the reformers as ruling-class pawns, but Mr. Mitgang is having none of it. He makes a convincing case, on the evidence, that Walker and his associates had their hands in the till and betrayed the voters' trust.
A child of the 30's, Mr. Mitgang is nostalgic not for the Jazz Age but for leaders like Roosevelt and La Guardia; he yearns for the return of their visionary idealism and innovative programs serving the less fortunate. In this sense his genial book is a jeremiad and a liberal's call to arms.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Herbert Mitgang (David N. Berkwitz/Free Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ONCE UPON A TIME IN NEW YORK (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JIMMY WALKER (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CORRUPTION (90%); WRITERS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LIBERALISM (77%); BRIBERY (77%); POLITICS (76%); HISTORY (74%); WORLD WAR I (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); LITERATURE (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: LOPATE, PHILLIP; MITGANG, HERBERT FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT JR (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



643 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS INTO ACTION;
Dell, It Turns Out, Has a Better Idea Than Ford

BYLINE: By FRED ANDREWS 

 BODY:
TIME was when Ford Motor's giant River Rouge plant in Dearborn, Mich., was the pinnacle of industrial achievement. Barges of iron ore docked at one end, new Fords rolled out the other.
But that was half a century ago, an eternity at Internet speed. Today's model is no longer Ford's assembly line but the quick assembly techniques made famous by Dell Computer. Dell's pioneering methods for making and selling personal computers have become required reading at business schools. Manufacturers in every industry have studied Dell's immense success. 
 Yes, that includes the auto industry, producer of the most complex mechanism that human intelligence has ever devised for mass consumption. Now operating in a faster-paced economy, the industry is urgently seeking ways to bring its products to market more quickly. The trade talk at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit earlier this month suggests that the auto giants are lumbering toward Dell's idea of manufacturing for today's world.
Dell made its name by selling directly to customers and allowing them to specify the features they wanted their personal computer to include. Dell quickly assembles customized machines to fill orders arriving by way of the Internet or by phone. Among manufacturers, the company is known for extreme reliance on suppliers for components.
Charles H. Fine, who teaches manufacturing at the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T., attributes the company's success to mastery of "supply chain management," that is, its complete flexibility about whether a particular function is performed by its own people or by outsiders.
The automakers seem to have absorbed that lesson. Last week, General Motors, the world's largest company and traditionally Detroit's most self-sufficient, declared that from now on it would seek growth through partnerships and alliances -- "clearly a different approach," John F. Smith Jr., G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, acknowledged in a speech at the Automotive News World Congress in Detroit.
Mr. Smith's speech was policy ratifying practice. General Motors has gradually evolved a web of alliances with Toyota, Isuzu, Suzuki and other foreign automakers. Last May, G.M. took the watershed step of spinning off its captive parts maker, Delphi Automotive Systems, a $30 billion business. The parting freed Delphi to seek new customers among rival manufacturers and signaled G.M.'s intent to open its supply base to more vendors. Ford is in the process of following suit with its parts maker, Visteon Automotive Systems.
That decision was right out of the computer industry's playbook. Selling direct, with no distributors or retailers, Dell is spared the expense of an inventory of finished goods. Its supplier system keeps investment in materials to a bare minimum. The Dell process depends on close tracking of customer demand and sharing that intelligence with its suppliers.
An order in hand before making a car amounts to an automaker's vision of heaven. Today, almost all vehicles are manufactured for dealers' stocks. That requires the automakers to anticipate demand and figure out an attractive product mix. That task has become exceedingly difficult as consumer tastes have splintered and as products proliferate. Car and Driver's current guide to new cars, vans, sport utilities and pickup trucks indexes 279 model lines, sold under 45 different brands. The choices in color and options make the potential combinations almost infinite. Wrong guesses result in "lot rot": hard-to-sell vehicles piling up expensively on dealers' lots.
If companies could make cars and add options to order, Professor Fine said, "not only could they charge full price, they could satisfy the customer -- people will pay more for what they really want."
The Internet offers buyers instant access to car data, putting pressure on car companies for immediate response. A customer can choose a vehicle and select options now, of course, but must then wait weeks or months for delivery. Nearly every carmaker has a high-priority plan for chopping down that delay.
At the Detroit auto show, Louis Schweitzer, chief executive at Renault S.A., said that by next year Renault would provide 15-day delivery of cars manufactured to customers' specifications. Fujio Cho, president of Toyota, said the time had come to apply the company's mastery of "just in time" manufacturing to distribution and marketing.
Roy Roberts, group vice president for North American sales at General Motors, said G.M.'s ambitious goal was to cut "order to delivery" from about 50 days to 10. Robert L. Rewey, a group vice president at Ford, said Ford was busily building an information system to dispatch a new order instantly back through the chain to parts suppliers, speeding the manufacturing process.
The Dell system's quick response time depends on "modularity," a basic building block in the computer industry. The term refers to "plug and play" components that click together, like a home-entertainment system. Modularity relies on industrywide agreement on performance standards and on ease of connection.
Professor Fine and others say that all the auto companies are working hard to exploit modularity, especially the companies that produce the cheaper cars. Primary suppliers like Delphi or Johnson Controls no longer provide mere parts. They offer complete "systems," from climate control or braking to entire interiors or fully equipped cockpits. By all accounts, the automakers are relegating more and more engineering of complex components to suppliers.
Not everyone thinks that modularity is the answer for Detroit. The United Auto Workers vigorously opposes it as mainly a pretext for removing work from its jurisdiction. Beyond that, fine cars like Mercedes or B.M.W. all tend to be highly integrated designs, Professor Fine said, with much less scope for "plug and play" systems. Nevertheless, most of the 17 million vehicles sold in the United States last year were not peak-performance cars, and the industry's swing toward modularity is unmistakable.
"Across the board, more systems, more subsystems and whole modules are being done by the supplier community," Harry Pearce, G.M.'s vice chairman, said in an interview at the Detroit show. He predicted that a shakeout among suppliers would produce "half a dozen powerhouses." Those companies will then engage in "a natural tug of war" with automakers over controlling the critical engineering in a vehicle.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Assembling a cockpit module for Mercedes-Benz at Delphi Automotive, which manages 140 parts from 35 suppliers to build and deliver cockpits. (Delphi Automotive Systems)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (51%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DELL COMPUTER CORP FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP (51%); VISTEON AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DELL COMPUTER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); TRADE SHOWS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, FRED

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



644 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 29; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Amyas Ames Is Dead at 93; A Champion of Lincoln Center

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI 

 BODY:
Amyas Ames, an investment banker who devoted half his life to the support of the arts, becoming board chairman of both the New York Philharmonic and Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died on Monday at a retirement community in Lexington, Mass. He was 93.
During his long business career Mr. Ames was managing partner at Kidder, Peabody & Company and chairman of its executive committee. He also served as president of the Investment Bankers Association. 
 But as an amateur pianist and longtime lover of the arts, Mr. Ames realized early on that he did not want to follow the 'straight-business route,' as he explained in an article in The New York Times on the occasion of his appointment to the Lincoln Center post in 1970. "I wanted to phase out early," he said, and help "tie the performing arts into political developments, into the fight to improve the quality of life, the quality of the environment in our cities."
He was elected to the board of the New York Philharmonic in 1955, became its president in 1963 and served as chairman from 1970 until 1983. In 1970 he also accepted the appointment as chairman of Lincoln Center, following the retirement of John D. Rockefeller III, and held the position for 10 years.
At the time he accepted the Lincoln Center post, the organization was in its seventh year and facing financial crisis. Mr. Ames believed that the decrease in private and government funding for the arts was a reflection of more pressing societal concerns about urban, racial and educational problems. He was a self-described optimist about the ability of the arts to help these problems. "We're fighting the pollution of the inner city, and along with it we should be fighting the pollution of the inner mind," he said in the same interview.
During his tenure at Lincoln Center he headed two major endowment drives that raised over $28 million. He instigated the New York Philharmonic's free "Concerts in the Parks" series, which began in 1965 and still thrives, and oversaw the creation of the "Live From Lincoln Center" television broadcasts, the first of which in 1976 presented a New York Philharmonic concert with the pianist Van Cliburn.
Most notably, he spearheaded the renovation of the Philharmonic's concert hall at Lincoln Center, which had opened as Philharmonic Hall in 1962. To correct the hall's notoriously poor acoustics, some expensive adjustments were tried during the 1960's. But it was not until Mr. Ames solicited the support of Avery Fisher and the hall was totally renovated and reopened in 1976 as Avery Fisher Hall that critics pronounced themselves satisfied with the results.
Mr. Ames was born in Sharon, Mass., on June 15, 1906. His father was a biologist at Harvard University and his mother was an artist and musician. His grandfather, Oliver Ames, had been governor of Massachusetts. Mr. Ames's unusual first name, Amyas, was an old English spelling of the family name.
He attended Harvard, playing baseball and also performing on clarinet in the Harvard Band. After graduating in 1928, he entered Harvard Business School. The next year the stock market crashed. Undeterred, his master's degree in tow, Mr. Ames joined a Boston financial firm and three years later moved to New York to begin his career at Kidder, Peabody.
During World War II he served as administrative officer of the War Shipping Administration in Washington, a civilian government agency that coordinated the operation of the 4,000 allied ships that were transporting food and war materials.
For 60 years he was married to Evelyn I. Perkins, a published poet and author, who died in 1990. In 1995 Mr. Ames married Lucia Millham of Locust Valley, N.Y., who had worked in hospital administration, and who survives him.
Mr. Ames was an avid environmentalist and nature photographer. At his summer home in Martha's Vineyard he took photographs of flowers and wildlife, many of which were published with his accompanying essays in The Vineyard Journal. In 1980 a collection of his photographs and essays entitled "The Private Lives of Our Natural Neighbors" was published as a book by George Braziller of New York.
Besides his wife, Mr. Ames is survived by four children from his first marriage: two sons, Edward and and Oakes, both of New York City; two daughters, Olivia Hoblitzelle of Cambridge, Mass., and Joan Ames of Eugene, Ore., as well as 11 grandchildren and 6 great-grandchildren.
In his final years at the Brookhaven in Lexington retirement community, Mr. Ames designed and oversaw the creation of a nature trail through the wooded grounds there that was accessible to elderly people with limited mobility.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amyas Ames (1988)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (72%); LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); MUSIC (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); 

PERSON: AMES, AMYAS; TOMMASINI, ANTHONY OLIVER AMES (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



645 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
From plumbing problems to medical evacuations, International SOS can be a big help on the road.

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey; The Business Travel column appears each Wednesday. Joe Sharkey's e-mail is jsharkey@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I was doing the old Dallas quick-step one day last week, huffing a half-mile between gates at the nation's most aerobically demanding airport to lunge for a connecting flight whose tail fin could be seen gliding away just as I reached the counter, where the ticket agent wore a look that said, ha-ha.
Normally, this would have generated a foul and self-pitying mood, except that I had been speaking just the day before with Arnaud Vaissie, the president of International SOS Ltd., a company based in Philadelphia that provides emergency services, medical and logistical, to corporate business travelers. And suddenly the prospect of an unanticipated layover of an extra couple of hours didn't seem so terrible, considering some of the things that can go really wrong on a business trip. 
 Take the hijacking last month of that Indian Airlines plane, whose passengers were held hostage in Afghanistan. Imagine being on that leg of a business trip. Three clients of Mr. Vaissie's company were.
International SOS dispatched a medical team to treat the clients when they were released. In a typical travel emergency, the company also takes care of details like retrieving luggage, rescheduling missed connections, and making sure that business meetings are canceled with appropriate explanations.
"The hijacking was such a megasituation that everything else disappeared except the medical need," said Mr. Vaissie, who himself spends about a third of his time traveling on business. "Missing a business meeting in Frankfurt was not a big factor here. It's rare that we're not involved when there is a major international incident -- bombings, terrorism, coups, civil disasters. But most of our business is less dramatic."
Several basic trends drive a company like International SOS, which began operations in 1974 and now has 2,500 employees and emergency offices that operate around the clock in more than 30 cities, from Houston to Hanoi. An illness, accident or other emergency is usually more complicated to deal with when someone is traveling or living temporarily abroad for business. And international business travel is increasing sharply. An American Express survey indicates a growth of about 30 percent this year, with a far wider range of destinations as economic interests connect around the world.
While it is more true in Europe than in the United States, "the need to actually be there is certainly the case in Asia, where you typically have just one big city for doing business in each country," Mr. Vaissie said. "People want to know you, look at your face and see if you are genuine before doing business."
His clients, mostly major multinational corporations, but also including airlines, hotels and cruise ships, pay a retainer based on their size to have access to emergency offices worldwide, where 500 doctors and nurses are on staff. There are extra charges for extraordinary services like evacuations.
People working abroad on emergencies necessarily develop good local networks. Arranging a sudden medical evacuation from China, for example, requires dealing successfully with potentially indignant local doctors, but also with political officials who can expedite exit clearances, and even with military types whose approval might be crucial for clearing air space for an emergency charter.
"When we deal with the medical interests of a traveler we also deal with the logistics of the situation," Mr. Vaissie said. "We have developed the capability of dealing with the nonmedical components which are key to making things happen. The medical outcome is completely linked to the quality of the logistics involved. Our people have their contacts. We can access things that basically are closed to everybody else."
Medical evacuations, coups and terrorist incidents aside, International SOS will even do such tasks as put up bail if a corporate vice president for sales gets jammed up with a little unpleasantness involving the gendarmes in, say, Tangier.
And you thought all the adventure had gone out of the world. Yet here we have an organization where a case of appendicitis is suddenly fraught with international intrigue and derring-do. John Le Carre may be old hat, but dangerous, exotic adventure lives on, as a component of the corporate bottom line.
It is at least something romantic to mull over the next time you're stranded in Atlanta blinking helplessly at the departures screen. A smart thriller writer with an eye on airport paperback sales could clean up in the suddenly exciting business-travel genre.
Though it had not occurred to him before, Mr. Vaissie suddenly grasped the movie possibilities. Think James Bond meets "The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit." "A modern sense of adventure," Mr. Vaissie said. "Business people are going all over, to the most impossible places on the earth, to more and more remote locations."
But as a corporate executive he had some thoughts on the narrative arc: "The point of the whole thing is making sure adventure is going to be mastered, if you will. To make adventure safe."
He noted that among the minor details a regional International SOS office can take care of are helping to get prescriptions refilled or even arranging for a plumber to come to your house if the pipes burst while you are out there tending to the business of the world.
This isn't exactly the stuff of thrillers, lamentably. "Our people have the right phone numbers and local contacts," Mr. Vaissie said. "They can find a plumber at night. It's very mundane." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (76%); AFGHANISTAN (70%); ASIA (70%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SOS ASSISTANCE INC AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL SOS ASSISTANCE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (76%); AFGHANISTAN (70%); ASIA (70%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS HIJACKING (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); NURSES & NURSING (75%); CRUISES (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); TICKET AGENCIES (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); BOMBINGS (68%); TRENDS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); 

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE; VAISSIE, ARNAUD ARNAUD VAISSIE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



646 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: The Law on Campaign Money

 BODY:
The Supreme Court performed a valuable public service on Monday by demolishing one of the main arguments brandished by Congressional foes of campaign finance reform. In a decisive 6-to-3 ruling, the court reaffirmed the constitutionality of campaign contribution limits and exposed the emptiness of claims that the First Amendment presents an insurmountable bar to meaningful action by lawmakers to restrict the corrupting flow of money into campaigns.
The case involved a test of Missouri's $1,075 limit on an individual's donations to a statewide candidate. A lower appeals court had struck down the limit on free-speech grounds, in essence overruling the portion of the Supreme Court's 1976 decision in Buckley v. Valeo that upheld the $1,000 contribution limit for federal candidates as a permissible precaution against corruption. 
 In rejecting this invitation to reconsider its approval of the cap in light of 24 years of inflation, the court put due emphasis on the corruptive nature of large campaign gifts. It also turned aside arguments that such limits amount to suppression of speech, lacking any concrete proof that candidates are prevented from raising sufficient funds to get their voices heard. "Leave the perception of impropriety unanswered, and the cynical assumption that large donors call the tune could jeopardize the willingness of voters to take part in democratic government," wrote Justice David Souter in the majority opinion signed by five of his colleagues, including Chief Justice William Rehnquist.
Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican who is the leading Congressional opponent of campaign finance reform, says the opinion is inconsequential to the ongoing battle over banning the unregulated contributions to political parties known as soft money. Yet one immediate effect of the decision is to render laughable Mr. McConnell's attempt to portray himself as a First Amendment champion for opposing a soft-money ban. The majority opinion did not address soft money directly. But its endorsement of contribution limits to protect the integrity of the political process strongly suggests that legislative steps to prevent candidates from evading those limits by raising and spending soft money would also pass muster.
Indeed, as the two concurring opinions by Justices John Paul Stevens and Stephen Breyer underscored, a number of justices are deeply concerned about the dominant role of big money in politics. They also seemed concerned about the court's own role in helping to accelerate the money chase by ruling, in another, highly lamentable part of the Buckley decision, that limits on campaign spending violate the First Amendment. In future rulings, the court needs to allow limits on both contributions and spending of personal funds by wealthy candidates.
In reaffirming contribution limits, the court decided that those limits do not harm anyone's rights to free speech. No one is prevented from speaking, just from buying undue influence. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: FR (PAR) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) VALEO SA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; EDITORIALS; CONSTITUTIONS; ETHICS CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); APPROVALS (68%); 

PERSON: JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%); DAVID SOUTER (58%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



647 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence at a Record High

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Consumer confidence rose to a record level so far in January, suggesting that the economy's expansion will continue, the Conference Board said yesterday.
Abundant jobs, a rising stock market and an uneventful change to the year 2000 helped drive the consumer confidence index to 144.7, its highest level in 32 years. The Conference Board polls 5,000 households and now uses 1985 as the index's base line of 100. 
 "This is evidence that there's more fuel in this economic expansion," said Richard Yamarone, senior economist with the Argus Research Corporation. "Everyone is employed. When you have a job, you are confident. When you're confident, you spend."
The previous high for the index was 142.3 in October 1968. The economy is on the verge of a record expansion, led by consumer spending and increased worker productivity.
Also yesterday, in a report that was inadvertently released early, the National Association of Realtors said that home resales reached a high of 5.2 million last year, up 4.6 percent from 4.97 million in 1998. It was the first time more than 5 million homes were resold in a year and was the fourth consecutive yearly record.
Job security formed the backdrop for the confidence report, which surprised analysts expecting a bigger effect from higher interest rates and recent volatility in stocks. Economists had forecast a level of 142.1 this month.
The report suggests that the economic expansion, on track to set a record of 107 months in February, could continue at least into July. Productivity gains have enabled the economy to grow at more than 4 percent a year without accelerating inflation so far. Third-quarter productivity grew at a 4.9 percent annual rate, the biggest gain in almost seven years.
The reading added to speculation that Federal Reserve policy makers will raise short-term interest rates at their February meeting to try to curb inflation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS RESEARCH CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC (71%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); HOUSING; SALES ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



648 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: White House Talks Set in Dispute on Base

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
The White House has agreed to a request by the governor of Puerto Rico to step in and accelerate negotiations with the Navy about resuming weapons training on its base on the island of Vieques.
After the governor rejected the Navy's latest proposal to hold a referendum on the issue, the White House agreed to the request last night and invited Puerto Rico's top negotiator to resume negotiations on Thursday in Washington. But White House officials voiced support for the Navy's proposal to leave a final decision on the base's future to the citizens of Vieques rather than to Gov. Pedro J. Rossello. 
 The Navy proposed last week that a referendum be held in 3 to 18 months offering the citizens of Vieques a choice of allowing the armed forces to resume training with live ammunition and receive $40 million in community aid in gratitude or closing the base within five years. There would be no testing on the island, where there is a moratorium on live-fire exercises through March 1, after the referendum, administration officials said.
"This proposal is worse than the last one," said Alfonso Aguilar, spokesman for the governor. "We've only got a few weeks left, and we know the Navy is pressuring the president for a decision before the moratorium ends in March."
The president suspended all military exercises on Vieques, a small island in the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, in April, when a civilian Puerto Rican guard was killed after Marine jets dropped bombs that unintentionally hit an observation tower. That death touched off protests that have led to the occupation of the base by more than 100 people.
In December the president halted live-fire military exercises there and ordered an end to all exercises in five years. Governor Rossello immediately rejected that as not a sufficient compromise, saying Puerto Rico wanted a ban on bombing exercises on Vieques that could be legally binding.
Last Friday the Navy made its counterproposal, a referendum, which has the backing of the president, a senior administration official said.
"We're suggesting the referendum is the way to go to give the Navy a chance to present its plan and see what the will of the people of Vieques really is," a senior White House official said. "The Puerto Ricans need to understand that the president as commander in chief must push forward the readiness of the armed forces while weighing the concerns of the people of Vieques."
Since World War II, the Navy and Marines have used the 900-acre range on Vieques for their only comprehensive live-fire exercises on the East Coast, involving amphibious landings, aerial bombardments and naval gunfire. While the Navy calls the range its "crown jewel" because these joint exercises are necessary to prepare the battle groups for deployment, the citizens of Vieques have called the base unacceptable.
Governor Rossello has said the bombardment of Vieques over more than 50 years has led to high unemployment, high rates of cancer and severe damage to the island's wildlife and its fragile coral reef.
The Navy has admitted that it mishandled relations with the people of Vieques and has asked for another chance. But the citizens of Puerto Rico have put Vieques on the political agenda in the presidential campaign and in New York State, which has a large Puerto Rican population.
Vice President Al Gore sides with Puerto Rico in the debate, as does Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is running for the Senate from New York.
Republicans in Congress have backed the Navy and have scheduled hearings in the House and Senate on legislation that would the Roosevelt Roads naval station in Puerto Rico, a $3 billion entity, if the commonwealth refuses to allow the resumption of live-fire training.
Puerto Rico officials derided that proposal as scare tactics and have asked that the Navy be excluded from the talks on Thursday.
"We don't want to talk to the Navy anymore," Mr. Aguilar said.
On Thursday, Angel Morey, Puerto Rico's secretary of state, will meet with John D. Podesta, the White House chief of staff, and a Defense Department representative.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO; VIEQUES (PUERTO RICO); PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; NAVIES REFERENDUMS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); MILITARY TRAINING (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); NAVIES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); FIREARMS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); SHOOTINGS (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROSSELLO, PEDRO J (GOV); BECKER, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



649 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Holy Family Is Miscast As Homeless

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
THERE seems to be no hope of a serious debate about homelessness until we resolve the question troubling devout politicians and journalists: What would happen to the baby Jesus and his parents in today's New York City?
Hillary Rodham Clinton raised the issue last month by describing Jesus as "a homeless child" during a speech criticizing Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's policies on the homeless. Then the Rev. Al Sharpton elaborated during a rally several days later. 
 "If Jason Turner had come into the barn that night," Mr. Sharpton said, referring to the commissioner of the city's Human Resources Administration, "he would have said to the baby Jesus: 'You have been born to two unwedded parents. They don't have an address. They don't have a job. We have to take you in custody and arrest your parents.' "
Next, Mike Barnicle, the Daily News columnist, imagined Joseph as an unemployed "illegal alien" taunted by cruel Manhattanites when he asked for help for his pregnant wife. In his column, Joseph and Mary managed to escape arrest, but Jimmy Breslin was not so optimistic in Newsday. His column on Sunday assailing city officials began: "Next, they'll arrest Christ and his family for being homeless."
Such piety is noteworthy in politicians and journalists, especially ones who don't like conservatives dragging the Bible into political debates. Maybe liberals will soon be sporting bracelets and bumper stickers labeled WWJD, for What Would Jesus Do?
But imbuing Jesus' family with modern social pathologies -- you might call it defining deviancy up -- is problematic. To call Mary an unwed mother is about as scripturally accurate as calling her a crack addict. She was already engaged when she became pregnant, and Joseph "took unto him his wife" (Matthew 1:25) before the birth.
Joseph, a carpenter who taught the trade to his son, is never described in the New Testament as unemployed. Nor are he and his family ever depicted as homeless. At worst, Joseph and Mary were travelers far from their home in Nazareth who were unable to find a room one night at the inn in Bethlehem. But they might not have encountered even that problem, because there is reason to think that Jesus was actually born at their home.
The Gospel of Mark, which was probably the first one written, does not mention the birth in Bethlehem and repeatedly identifies Jesus as the "Nazarene." Some scholars, believing the actual birthplace to be in Nazareth, suspect that later Gospels drew on legends placing it in Bethlehem, David's home town, because that corresponded with an Old Testament prophecy of the Messiah.
The Bethlehem stories are only in Matthew and Luke, and they're not consistent with each other. In Matthew's Gospel, Bethlehem is apparently the first home of Joseph and Mary, and Jesus is born in their "house" (Matthew 2:11). Only later does the family move to Nazareth.
IN Luke's Gospel, the source of the popular Nativity story, Mary and Joseph are already in Nazareth when she becomes pregnant, and they travel back to Joseph's ancestral town to register for a Roman census. But if their primary home had been in Nazareth, they wouldn't have been expected to go anywhere else for the census, as the British theologian John Bowker notes in "The Complete Bible Handbook."
"A journey from Nazareth to Bethlehem would make sense only if Joseph was in some significant sense already resident there," Dr. Bowker writes. "The Greek phrase translated in Luke as 'there was no room at the inn' (Luke 2:7) could also be interpreted as meaning there was not enough space for Mary and Joseph in their extended family's 'living room,' so Mary laid Jesus in a food trough for animals, which were sometimes kept near the entrances of first-century Christian Era cave dwellings found in Bethlehem."
If that's the case, maybe politicians and journalists can draw new lessons from Christ's birth. Conservatives might see it as a vindication of family values and the work ethic and the private sector: Joseph and Mary raised a healthy, wonderful child on their own. Liberals might point to the crowded, unsanitary conditions in the cave as evidence of the need for more public housing projects and prenatal care programs.
Or maybe both sides could agree that the problems of today's homeless did not afflict Joseph and Mary, and that New York's social programs are not relevant to life in ancient Judea. Maybe we could debate the best way to help the homeless without dragging Jesus' family into it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA HOMELESSNESS (93%); RELIGION (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); ARRESTS (88%); IMMIGRATION (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REFUGEES (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); HUMAN RESOURCES (69%); COCAINE (50%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; JESUS CHRIST HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL SHARPTON (70%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



650 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1950 words

HEADLINE: In Japan, What Price Coca-Cola?;
'Throwaway' Lawsuit Grows Into a Far-Reaching Case

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

DATELINE: WALNUT CREEK, Calif.

 BODY:
For years, Japanese consumers have had two Coca-Colas to choose from -- identical except for their packaging, but at strikingly different prices. There is the locally bottled brand, labeled simply Coca-Cola, and "American Coke," labeled Coca-Cola Classic -- bottled in America and shipped abroad.
The name "Coca-Cola Classic" is used only in the United States and Canada, denoting the return to the original formula in 1985 after the "New Coke" debacle. But it's all the same stuff. 
 Despite the thousands of miles American Coke has to travel, it is usually cheaper than Japanese-made Coke, which typically sells for 120 yen ($1.14) in a 12-ounce can from vending machines. American Coke costs as little as 70 yen (67 cents), or 40 percent less, said Kazumasa Nagasaki, president of a company that imports American Coke. That compares with about 80 cents in the United States. "I have never seen Japanese Coca-Cola for 70 yen," he added.
That price gap is at the heart of a complex civil case soon to be heard by a federal jury in San Francisco. For four years, Coca-Cola has been battling a pair of tiny California exporters. Coke brought the original lawsuit, but last year the companies, Omni Pacific and Dependable Vending, filed a countersuit accusing Coke of violating antitrust laws.
Simply put, these are the opposing positions: Coke says the sale of its products outside specified regions raises quality-control issues, infringes its trademark rights, and violates contracts with bottlers. The exporting companies say Coke is grasping at straws to drive them out of business.
The stakes are high. Coke makes more money per can in Japan than anywhere else. Only about 5 percent of its production is sold there, but it brings in at least 20 percent of profits -- about $1 billion before taxes, said Andrew J. Conway, an analyst for Morgan Stanley.
The growth of this market, Mr. Conway wrote in a report to investors, is "critically important to Coke's ability to grow corporate-wide operating income in the 12 percent to 14 percent range."
What began in 1996 as a throwaway lawsuit has blossomed into one that could have major implications for the way Coca-Cola does business with bottlers around the world. Within the 200,000 pages of documents in the case, the company is shown struggling to mollify its Asian bottlers, who complained to Coke in Atlanta about cheaper American drinks flooding their markets. But other documents show the biggest Coke bottler, Atlanta-based Coca-Cola Enterprises, or C.C.E., eagerly selling to companies like Dependable Vending.
"I'd get calls and they'd say, 'We haven't made our numbers this month. Can you take 30,000 cases?' " recalled Mark Oliver, Dependable's soft-spoken president. One manager told him he would not be eligible for a hefty bonus if he did not sell a particular amount by a certain deadline, and asked Mr. Oliver to help.
A spokeswoman for Coca-Cola Enterprises did not return phone calls yesterday.
Omni Pacific and Dependable, which together did about $20 million in business last year, a mere trickle next to Coke's $18.8 billion in annual sales, say they bought Coke products from bottlers and wholesalers in the United States who were well aware of their exporting plans and sold them to distributors like Mr. Nagasaki. With its lawsuit, Coca-Cola asserted that no one could sell Coca-Cola outside the territory where it was bottled. The countersuit contends that Coke provided some Japanese bottlers with discounted American-made Coca-Cola in an effort to undercut companies like Dependable and Omni Pacific.
Controlling which cans of Coke end up where in Asia is a problem back in Atlanta. "This is about our right to protect our trademark, our bottlers' contractual rights and the system that benefits customers and consumers in local communities around the world," said Ben Deutsch, a Coke spokesman. Among the hundreds of hours of depositions on videotape is one from Douglas N. Daft, Coke's president, who oversaw the company's business in Japan for 11 years and is expected to become chairman and chief executive in April.
The central issue is whether companies like Omni Pacific and Dependable have the right to buy cans of Coke from any source and resell them abroad. Mr. Deutsch said bottler contracts contain "territorial sales provisions" meant to prevent that. The chief lawyer for the companies, which make money on the price differences between American-made Coke and overseas versions, says Coca-Cola is unfairly trying to control prices worldwide. The methods involved -- threats of legal action, agreements with bottlers not to do business with suspected transshippers and "blacklists" that order distributors not to sell Coke to particular companies -- violate foreign fair-trade laws and American antitrust statutes, said the lawyer, William A. Wineberg.
In the United States, Coca-Cola and other soft drink companies grant exclusive franchise rights to bottlers in given locations. That exclusivity was reinforced by a 1980 law, the Interbrand Competition Act, which holds that as long as competition exists, exclusive territories are acceptable. Coke and Pepsi fine bottlers whose products are found outside their territories. But no such law exists abroad.
In Japan, where about 50 percent of Coke products are sold through vending machines, Coke's sales of carbonated soft drinks have been flat or falling lately. Coca-Cola makes $1.26 in profit a case in Japan, Mr. Conway estimated, compared with 28 cents at home and 94 cents in Germany. Bottlers' profits have declined in recent years, while Coke's have risen.
Mr. Deutsch said the bottlers set the wholesale and vending prices, but prices in stores and supermarkets are set there.
The lawsuit, scheduled for a jury trial in May, began as a relatively simple case brought by Coke lawyers against one of Omni Pacific's suppliers, a small family-run company in Canada, in 1996. Brett Roberts, the lanky and colorful president of Omni Pacific, said that after he provided a statement to Coke's lawyers, he was added as a defendant.
For Mr. Roberts, who founded Omni Pacific and runs it from a low-profile office building at the edge of a highway in Walnut Creek, the experience of going up against Coke has been traumatic. "I used to sit here at my desk and throw up into the trash can," he said. "I got real paranoid."
Customers fled, some after receiving subpoenas from Coke's lawyers. He himself was shocked by the initial lawsuit, he said, since he had been exporting Coke for years unhindered. He began by looking up law firms in the Yellow Pages. To cope with his increasingly ragged emotional state, he said, he bought a gun, took up meditation and started a Web site with details of the case. In his wallet, he keeps a copy of a letter he received from a Coke lawyer in 1997; he rereads it now and then for inspiration. "Litigation," the lawyer, Frederick L. Whitmer, wrote, "is not for the squeamish."
Looking for legal help, Mr. Roberts bounced around, racking up six-figure bills from firms like O'Melveny & Myers, before Mr. Wineberg took the case. Mr. Wineberg, a longtime antitrust lawyer whose trophies include a $320 million settlement with oil companies in a price-fixing case on behalf of Long Beach, Calif., brought the countersuit on a contingency basis and has asked for more than $10 million in damages.
Mr. Roberts and Mr. Wineberg form an unlikely pair, although they share a fondness for frequent cigarette breaks. Mr. Roberts is a fast-talking, at times emotional 40-year-old who left rural Iowa at 18 and, once he saw the ocean, decided never to leave California. Mr. Wineberg, a father of five, personifies the eminence grise, strolling pensively in a trenchcoat near his office in downtown San Francisco. Mr. Oliver falls somewhere between the two, closer to Mr. Roberts in age but understated like Mr. Wineberg.
Their joint odyssey has highlighted many internal business decisions made by Coca-Cola. It has also raised the question of whether the interests of shareholders in Coca-Cola Enterprises, in which Coca-Cola holds a 39 percent stake, as well as other publicly traded bottlers are being served by Coca-Cola's actions. Has Coke's worldwide empire grown too large to be managed efficiently and without conflict?
"We could live with C.C.E. making an independent decision not to sell to us, although we think it's in the economic interests of their shareholders to sell to us," Mr. Wineberg said. "We are saying that it was pressure from the foreign bottlers that made Coke start this vendetta."
Mr. Deutsch would not comment, citing the litigation.
Omni Pacific and Dependable have obtained a court order barring Coke from using names or documents in the case to block supplies to them. But it is happening anyway, Mr. Oliver said. "I was told by one of my sources that Coke lawyers called and told them to continue to sell to me," he said. "Then the lawyers called back after I placed my order, and said, Don't deliver to him."
Whether there has been a breach of antitrust law is unclear. "The real question is whether the law supports this case," said Maxwell Blecher, an antitrust expert in Los Angeles.
Mr. Wineberg said the damage to his clients' business was cause enough to show the antitrust laws had been broken. "There's no question that consumers in Japan have been injured, but that's not what this case is about," he said.
Mr. Roberts said Coke's dominance in Asia emboldened it to set high prices, creating a market for companies like his. "Other people can come in with other Coke products that they have shipped halfway around the world, and still undercut them," he said.
Keeping those prices in place in Japan is a big chore for Coke, Mr. Wineberg said. "Our claim is that Coke has set up an agreement among all of its bottlers that they won't compete with each other in the sale of Coca-Cola products, and that is inhibiting Coca-Cola Enterprises from competing with bottlers in places like Hong Kong and Japan," he said, calling the arrangement a "hub and spoke" conspiracy.
Mr. Roberts and Mr. Oliver say Coke was aware of their activities for years. Mr. Oliver placed orders for Coke by the containerload from bottling plants in Seattle, Denver and Jacksonville, Fla., and says it became a problem only when a foreign bottler complained.
His liaison in Jacksonville, he said, was a Coca-Cola executive, to whom he sent "supporting documents explaining who I was and what I do," Mr. Roberts said. He bought up to 100,000 cases of soft drinks a week until 1993, when he was cut off.
He contends that Coca-Cola encouraged the practice because it helped build sales overseas. "This is their way of profiting in those marketplaces," he said. "The Jacksonville plant manager told me that the only reason he was able to fill these orders was that they were coming from Coke."
Mr. Oliver continues to export Coke, but "not nearly as much as we want to," he said. Among his customers is Mr. Nagasaki, president of an Osaka company called Panavac, which imported about 400,000 cases of Coca-Cola Classic last year.
"I supply shops, vending machines and discount stores," Mr. Nagasaki said in a telephone interview, adding that no one from Coca-Cola in Japan had ever objected. He is hardly the only company importing American Coke, he added. Although consumers seem to be switching to less sugary beverages, "there is still good demand," he said.
The lawsuit, meanwhile, wends its way toward trial."It never goes away," said Mr. Roberts, who has stopped selling Coke abroad. "I go to bed thinking about it, and I wake up thinking about it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brett Roberts is president of Omni Pacific, a Coca-Cola exporter being sued by the beverage giant. (Peter DiSilva for The New York Times); Mark Oliver, president of Dependable Vending, an exporter. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Competing Cokes"
Two kinds of Coca-Cola are sold in Japan. One is made entirely in the United States then shipped to Japan, the other is made in Japan from concentrate. Despite the cost of shipping to Japan, American-made Coca-Cola Classic is cheaper for Japanese consumers.
 
MADE IN AMERICA
$18.30: Retail price for each case from vending machines (about 76 cents a can)
 
$11.50: Wholesale price of American-made Coca-Cola in Japan (includes shipping, taxes and delivery charges)
 
$5.50: Wholesale price of American-made Coca-Cola in America
 
MADE IN JAPAN
$27.40: Retail price for each case from vending machines (about $1.14 a can)
 
$20.00: Wholesale price of Japanese-made Coke in Japan
(Sources: Sanford C. Bernstein & Company; Panavac)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (52%); CCE (PAR) (50%); CCE (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEPENDABLE VENDING CO; OMNI PACIFIC CO COCA-COLA CO (90%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES NEDERLAND BV (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPENDABLE VENDING CO; OMNI PACIFIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); VENDING MACHINES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); VENDING MACHINES (90%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); VENDING MACHINE OPERATORS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); TRADEMARK INFRINGEMENT (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); TRADEMARKS (69%); TRADEMARK LAW (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); JURY TRIALS (66%); QUALITY CONTROL (50%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L; OLIVER, MARK; ROBERTS, BRETT

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



651 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Up As Shares Recover From 5-Day Losing Streak

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks rebounded yesterday from Monday's slump as investors bought companies with surprisingly strong earnings, like Walt Disney, and some of the fourth-quarter rally's leaders.
Major indexes swung between gains and losses most of the day while investors weighed enthusiasm for faster profit growth against concern about how much the Federal Reserve may raise interest rates next week. The Nasdaq composite index had the bumpiest ride, falling as much as 1.7 percent before closing at its high for the day, up 1.7 percent. 
 "Today's market has been a microcosm of the year," said Francis Gannon, a portfolio manager with the SunAmerica Asset Management Corporation, which oversees $23.5 billion. "Earnings reports continue to be solid, but people are still focused on Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and what he might say."
The Nasdaq composite index rose 71.33 points, to 4,167.41. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 8.50 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,410.03, as Disney gained 12.6 percent.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 21.72 points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,029.89. American Express led the rebound, which ended the average's five-day losing streak. Still, almost three stocks rose for every two that fell on the New York Stock Exchange.
Disney, with a stock that had shown only one-third of the 153 percent gain made by the S.& P. over the last four years, jumped 5, to 37 1/2, after the company reported a surprise increase in its fiscal first-quarter profit and said it promoted Robert Iger to president.
Analysts at Goldman, Sachs; Merrill Lynch; and Salomon Smith Barney, among others, raised their recommendations on Disney.
American Express soared 6 3/8, to 158 3/8, after the issuer of credit cards said profit in the latest quarter rose 14 percent on higher charge card revenue. The company also said it would split its stock 3-for-1, the first share split since May 1987.
Qualcomm, the biggest gainer in the S.& P. 500 in 1999, rose 8 15/16, to 149, rebounding from a 9.6 percent drop Monday. But in after-hours trading shares of Qualcomm fell as los as 133.
Some 1.1 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, up from the three-month daily average of 938 million. The Nasdaq stock market had its fifth-busiest day, with 1.7 billion shares trading.
Tellabs Inc., the most-active U.S. stock, plunged 9 9/16, to 59 1/2, after the telecommunications equipment maker warned earnings were likely to be less than analysts forecast.
Procter & Gamble fell 5 3/8, to 97 1/2. Per-share earnings in the third quarter will rise about 7 percent to 9 percent, less than forecasts of about 12 percent, the company told analysts during a conference call. The company said it still expects to meet estimates for the year because of increased profit in its fourth quarter.
Texas Instruments Inc., which provides computer chips for two-thirds of the world's cellular phones, rose 3 9/16, to 113 5/8, after the company reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter profit and said first-quarter sales would rise.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Up
 
By The Associated Press
Long-term Treasury bond prices rose slightly yesterday after President Clinton said he would propose paying off the government's debt earlier than projected.
The price of the 30-year note climbed 6/32, to 93 16/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.63 percent from 6.65 percent.
Trading was light in other issues, which closed with little change.
Investors are awaiting Congressional testimony by Mr. Greenspan. His appearance before the Senate Budget Committee was canceled yesterday because of a winter storm, but he has another date before legislators today.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); DIS (NYSE) (74%); TLAB (NASDAQ) (61%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (52%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (51%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (74%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (74%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (74%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); WALT DISNEY CO (74%); SUNAMERICA ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (70%); TELLABS INC (61%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); QUALCOMM INC (52%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK SPLITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (69%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



652 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE FRONT-RUNNERS;
Bush and Gore Faced With New Set of Challenges

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Feb. 25

 BODY:
Despite their justifiable jubilation after first-place finishes in Iowa, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush confront unexpectedly complicated terrain here in New Hampshire.
This state may ultimately provide more of a test of their appeal and their political adaptability than the low turn-out caucuses that began this year's presidential contests. 
 Mr. Bush arrived in New Hampshire facing not one opponent, as he had expected with Senator John McCain, but two, with Steve Forbes emboldened by his strong second-place finish in Iowa.
Although this could end up playing to Mr. Bush's advantage by dividing his opposition, it places him in the immediate position of having to confront an attack from two sides of the political spectrum.
For Mr. Gore, the dynamic is simpler, but not without hazards. While his campaign hopes he can build steam from his easy win in Iowa, he lacks the built-in benefits he enjoyed there, in particular, a foundation of support from organized labor.
In addition, polls show that Bill Bradley is far more competitive with Mr. Gore here and that many more voters are inclined to embrace his message as a fresh, reform-minded alternative.
Obviously trying to dampen expectations, the vice president acknowledged as much when he arrived here early this morning and instantly took to the streets.
"New Hampshire doesn't take its lead from anywhere else," he declared. "You make your own decisions, and I'm asking for your vote."
Mr. Bradley made a similar point, though obviously from a different perspective. "New Hampshire is a bastion of independent thinking," he said. "Nobody tells them what to do. They make up their own minds."
Yet for all their challenges, Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush are, of course, in the most enviable positions, because success in this state is crucial for Mr. Bradley and Mr. McCain.
Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush both have the resources and the institutional support in their parties to survive a defeat here. That would be more difficult for Mr. McCain, who skipped Iowa altogether so he could concentrate on New Hampshire, or Mr. Bradley, who has always counted New Hampshire as a state he should win. They have had their best showings in polls in this state.
By finishing a distant second after Mr. Gore in Iowa, where he stumped vigorously, Mr. Bradley faces even more pressure in this state, as even Mr. Bradley's own supporters acknowledged this week. "Bill needs to have a credible showing in Iowa and to win in New Hampshire," Senator Paul Wellstone of Minnesota said.
Steve Murphy, a Democratic strategist in Washington, said Mr. Gore's victory in Iowa so changed perceptions that a win here by Mr. Bradley would boost his prospects far more than had he performed better in the caucuses.
"Gore is now set up to take a fall if he doesn't win in New Hampshire," Mr. Murphy said. "Since the consensus is that Gore will win, if Bradley can pull off a win his campaign will be quickly revived."
Even in their victory speeches in Iowa on Monday night, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore, mindful that they face an entirely different electorate in New Hampshire, were sounding new themes.
Mr. Gore, instead of talking about farmers and flood relief, focused on the economy and asked voters if they were better off now than four years ago, a tribute to the economic concerns that have long framed politics in this state. It is a message designed to capitalize on the accomplishments of the Clinton administration on the eve of the president's State of the Union message, which has ended up being propitiously timed for Mr. Clinton's protege.
As he celebrated his victory in Iowa, Mr. Bush declared, "The message worked here, and the message is going to work in New Hampshire as well."
But in the next breath, the Texas governor shed the more direct appeals to conservatives he had made in recent days and, reaching out to the more secular, libertarian and independent voters in New Hampshire, presented himself as the most electable and mainstream candidate. Mr. Bush's task is arguably more complicated because he has the challenge of running against two opponents, both of them potent.
Mr. McCain has been assiduously preparing for this week in New Hampshire, presenting himself as both the political reformer, an appeal that could draw independent voters, and the more responsible steward of the nation's foreign policy. Meanwhile, Mr. Forbes, with his vast personal wealth and history here of running sharp-edged advertisements, has been attacking Mr. Bush as not sufficiently conservative.
It is not unlike the challenge faced here by Bob Dole in 1996 when he was buffeted on one side by Patrick J. Buchanan, who ended up winning the New Hampshire primary, and the other by Lamar Alexander, the former governor of Tennessee who came close to finishing ahead of Mr. Dole.
Mr. Bush's advisers said they considered Mr. McCain more of a threat, both because he is seen as a more credible candidate and because some voters continue to bear ill-will toward Mr. Forbes for the attacks he launched on Mr. Dole in 1996. Accordingly, Mr. Bush intends to be particularly aggressive in trying to discredit Mr. McCain.
The front-runners are not the only ones facing some difficult political calculations. Mr. Bradley is under increasing pressure to show some assertiveness and to stand up to Mr. Gore, who has criticized him with obvious effect. But Mr. Bradley has thus far resisted, for instance, today, speaking for nearly 40 minutes without once mentioning the name of his opponent. Even some supporters said they were concerned that in his concession speech on Monday, Mr. Bradley seemed defeated and unprepared for the kind of political scrapping that he may need to do to win here this week.
That may be good news for Mr. McCain. While he may not have gained or lost anything from the Republican outcome in Iowa, he may have been helped by Mr. Bradley's defeat, because some independents who were inclined to vote for Mr. Bradley may now support Mr. McCain.
As a result, Mr. Bush, despite his victory on Monday, finds himself in the unlikely position of not being viewed as the front-runner -- at least in this state.
"Governor Bush comes into New Hampshire as an underdog," said Q. Whitfield Ayres, a Republican pollster.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); FORBES, STEVE (MALCOLM S FORBES JR) AL GORE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



653 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Sweatshop Movement Is Achieving Gains Overseas

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Apparel and footwear factories overseas have slowly improved working conditions in response to a highly vocal anti-sweatshop movement, labor rights advocates say.
Pressure from college students and other opponents of sweatshops has led some factories that make goods for industry giants like Nike and the Gap to cut back on child labor, to use less dangerous chemicals and to require fewer employees to work 80-hour weeks, according to groups that monitor such factories. 
 These changes, labor advocates say, could signal the beginning of a broad improvement in conditions for low-paid apparel workers in Asian and Latin American factories after four decades in which the trend has been for American companies to transfer production overseas in search of ever-cheaper labor.
The advocates stress that the improvements have been spotty, and that serious problems remain at factories from Honduras to Hong Kong. Wages are often too low to feed a family, factory air is often filled with chemicals and many managers refuse to let sick employees leave work to get medical attention.
"There has been some improvement on the ground, but nowhere near significant enough," said Charles Kernaghan, executive director of the National Labor Committee, a leading anti-sweatshop group.
At many factories, labor rights advocates say, managers have stopped hitting workers, have improved ventilation and have stopped requiring workers to obtain permission before going to the toilet.
Sweatshop opponents praise some companies, like Liz Claiborne, for improving conditions, while accusing others, like Wal-Mart, of being slow to ensure changes at the overseas factories that produce their apparel.
"Some steps have been taken, but I don't think one can say that conditions have improved in any wholesale way," said Pharis Harvey, executive director of the International Labor Rights Fund, a watchdog group in Washington."A number of companies that produce globally are watching much more carefully to deal with problems before they become embarrassing public problems."
The anti-sweatshop movement has put many apparel makers, like the Gap and Kathie Lee Gifford, on the defensive by picketing in front of stores, holding sit-ins at colleges and bombarding companies with letters.
The movement, one of the nation's largest to push for changes since the 1960's, includes church and consumer groups, labor unions, human rights organizations and college, high school and even middle-school students. The movement's leaders often note that sweatshops are not just found overseas; many remain in New York, Los Angeles and other American cities.
At last month's protests in Seattle, conditions in such factories were a major focus, with many demonstrators demanding that trade treaties punish countries that permit violations of minimum labor standards.
Apparel industry executives say that with shoppers hunting for bargains, they face intense pressure to produce goods as cheaply as possible, encouraging many to turn to substandard factories.
Many corporate executives acknowledge that the anti-sweatshop movement's efforts are paying off.
Phil Knight, chairman of Nike, the world's largest footwear maker, said the movement had gotten his company to accelerate efforts to improve conditions. "It probably speeded up some things that we might have done anyway," said Mr. Knight, whose company uses 565 footwear and apparel factories employing 500,000 workers in 46 countries. "Basically, the workers in footwear factories, not just our factories, are better off today than two years ago."
In one significant move, Nike and its rival Reebok are requiring the many Asian factories that produce for them to stop using petroleum-based adhesives that cause damage to the liver, kidney and central nervous system in favor of safer water-based adhesives.
Labor rights experts point to many improvements. Five years ago, monitoring groups say, apparel factories in Honduras often employed children under 14, but now it is rare to find workers under 16. In Indonesia, managers no longer systematically squash unionization efforts.
Liz Claiborne, the Gap and Reebok have all hired respected human rights groups to monitor a handful of their factories.
"The anti-sweatshop movement has improved working conditions," said Apo Leong, executive director of the Asia Monitor Research Center, a labor rights group based in Hong Kong. "We're seeing the multinationals putting pressure on their contractors, and subsequently conditions have improved."
Mr. Leong noted that factories in China were using less child labor and prison labor. But he said grave problems remained throughout Asia. He said that China often imprisoned union organizers, that many Nike and Reebok plants still lacked adequate ventilation and that many factories in Cambodia had deplorable health and safety conditions.
Sweatshop opponents point to other problems. Jeffrey Ballinger, executive director of Press for Change, a labor rights group, said wages paid by Nike's Indonesian factories had fallen in recent years, after accounting for inflation, an assertion the company denies. " Wages are behind where they were," Mr. Ballinger said. "They're below what is considered necessary to meet the minimum needs of a single adult."
Mr. Kernaghan of the National Labor Committee said, "There are two places where progress seems to grind to a halt: the effort to form unions and the effort to have wage increases."
One recent development is the formation of the Fair Labor Association, a White House-backed group of human rights organizations and companies, including L. L. Bean, Nike and Reebok. This group is setting up a monitoring system to inspect overseas factories to get them to meet minimum labor standards, like not requiring employees to work more than 60 hours a week.
Many campus groups call the association pro-corporate, and criticize it for not requiring factories to pay a living wage. But the association's members defend it as the first serious corporate-backed effort to inspect apparel factories and to put teeth behind basic labor standards.

 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316219 OTHER FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS316211 RUBBER AND PLASTICS FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315239 WOMEN'S AND GIRLS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS315228 MEN'S AND BOYS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (58%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (58%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (58%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC; GAP INC LIZ CLAIBORNE ACCESSORIES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIKE INC; GAP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; LABOR; SWEATSHOPS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; WORKING HOURS; SHOES AND BOOTS; SNEAKERS; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS SWEATSHOPS (92%); GARMENT WORKERS (91%); FOOTWEAR (90%); FOOTWEAR MFG (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHILD LABOR (78%); STRIKES (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); WORK WEEK (77%); CHILDREN (77%); TRENDS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ;GREENHOUSE, STEVEN ELISABETH 'LIZ' CLAIBORNE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



654 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS;
Timid at the Top: A Question of Leadership

BYLINE: By William H. Honan 

 BODY:
ABOUT a year ago, I cornered a group of eminent college and university presidents. A major study of the impact of race-sensitive admission policies at selective colleges and universities had just been published. It asserted that affirmative action at those institutions had played an important role in bolstering the black middle class.
All of the assembled thought that was good news. 
 And so I asked, "Now that you have evidence that this policy has worked, don't you have a responsibility to defend it?"
All were silent. Sheepish glances were exchanged. Heads hung low. No one was willing to take a stand.
That timidity by some of the brightest and most articulate men and women in the nation exemplifies my conclusion that American colleges have superb faculties, wonderful students, beautiful and well-wired campuses but weak-kneed, pussy-footing presidents.
The losers, of course, are all of us who are deprived of the stimulation and thoughtful leadership of the people Thorsten Veblen, the 19th-century economist, once called the "captains of erudition."
When is the last time a college or university chief made headlines by speaking out on campaign finance reform, genetic alteration, the rash of vocationalism (giving rise to "McUniversities"), national health insurance, tolerance for homosexuals, the fight over an exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum, the White House sex scandal?
Academic executives sometimes argue that they must mind their tongues for fear of antagonizing potential contributors, but that is the sort of rationalization to be expected from profit seekers, not from broad social thinkers and intellectual leaders who stand at the helms of great institutions.
It was not always this way.
A generation or two ago, James B. Conant, the president of Harvard from 1933 to 1953, served as an adviser to the Atomic Energy Commission while president and never hesitated to lecture the country on the importance of civilian control of atomic energy, educational reform and other matters.
John Silber, who became president of Boston University in 1971, advised President Ronald Reagan on foreign policy and, in 1990, took a year off to run for governor of Massachusetts while excoriating not only the icons of the new left but also such fellow university presidents as Clark Kerr at the University of California and Grayson Kirk at Columbia, whom he considered soft on student radicals.
Robert Maynard Hutchins, the president and then chancellor of the University of Chicago from 1929 to 1951, was a fearless fountain of ideas, many of them deliberately provocative. While dean of the Yale Law School, Hutchins denounced the Massachusetts court that condemned Sacco and Vanzetti to death. Chief Justice William Howard Taft sputtered that Hutchins must be in league with "every Bolshevik communist movement in the country," but that did not faze the Chicago trustees who shortly thereafter named Hutchins president, thus unloosing a flood of his frequently unpalatable ideas and opinions.
It was not just the big fellows who refused to hush up. Stringfellow Barr, who became president of St. John's College in Annapolis, Md., in 1937 and introduced a radically new curriculum composed entirely of 100 "great books," fiercely fought off those who objected to studying Marx and Freud alongside St. Augustine and St Thomas.
In 1945, Barr urged the creation of a world government after World War II.
Hamilton Holt, who had been editor of The Independent, a liberal weekly, before 1925, when he became president of Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla., spoke out on virtually everything that crossed his mind.
His most daring pronouncement -- the legend on a 1938 war memorial guaranteed to provoke just about everyone -- was inscribed on a bronze plaque under a heavy-caliber naval artillery shell mounted prominently on a pedestal on campus.
It read:
This engine of destruction, torture and death symbolizes
The prostitution of the inventor
The avarice of the manufacturer
The blood-guilt of the statesman
The savagery of the soldier
The perverted patriotism of the citizen
The debasement of the human race
If any would-be contributor did not like it, Dr. Holt said, he or she could go jump in the lake (Winter Park has seven from which to choose).
One need not agree with all that these feisty chief executives said in order to recognize and value their contributions to the intellectual vitality of the country.
At the very least, they made life more interesting.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; BLACKS; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); EDUCATION REFORM (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (67%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (62%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (51%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); SCANDALS (50%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



655 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Justice Department Issues A Rebuttal to Microsoft
The Justice Department and 19 states suing Microsoft jointly issued a stinging and disdainful rebuttal to the company's legal arguments last week that it had not violated the nation's antitrust laws. 
 In a 30-page document filed with Federal District Court in Washington, the Justice Department and the states characterized Microsoft's arguments as a strained effort at knocking down legal "straw men." Concluding arguments in the antitrust case have been scheduled for Feb. 22. Page C8.
 
A federal judge has ruled that Microsoft must conform to standards set by Sun Microsystems when it sells products that use Sun's Java programming language. C2.
 
Thomson to Acquire a Unit of Sylvan
Thomson, the owner of the Globe and Mail newspaper in Canada, is expected to announce the $775 million acquisition today of Sylvan Prometric, a computer-based testing company that certifies professionals and graduate school applicants. C4.
 
Procter Meets Earnings Estimates
Procter & Gamble, a day after deciding against a bid for Warner-Lambert and American Home Products, reported second-quarter earnings that were little changed from a year earlier but still met analysts' expectations. Shares of Procter & Gamble, which is based in Cincinnati, fell $5.375, to $97.50. C6.
 
Merrill Lynch & Company said its earnings more than doubled last quarter as its customers poured money into the firm and its corporate clients continued to sell stocks and bonds and buy other companies. C6.
 
American Home Products and Johnson & Johnson reported fourth-quarter profits that matched Wall Street forecasts. C14.
 
Consumer Confidence Sets Record
Consumer confidence has risen to a record level so far in January. Abundant jobs, a rising stock market and an uneventful change to the year 2000 helped drive up the consumer confidence index to 144.7 in January, its highest level in 32 years. C16.
 
Group Weighs Bid for Calvin Klein
Maurizio Romiti, chief executive of Holding di Partecipazioni Industriali, one of Italy's major fashion holding companies, said the company was considering an acquisition of Calvin Klein Industries. In October, Calvin Klein, left, and his partner Barry Schwartz hired Lazard Freres to explore strategic moves, including an alliance or possible sale. C4.
 
Qualcomm Expects Shipments to Dip
Qualcomm, the wireless technology company, warned that shipments of cellular telephones and chips might dip in the second quarter, sending its shares plunging $16 in after-hours trading. The warning came as Qualcomm reported earnings that beat the expectations of analysts by a penny a share. C14.
 
Chase Settles Privacy Case
Chase Manhattan Bank and a Denver-based Internet company will no longer routinely share personal or financial information about their customers with other companies under a settlement announced by the state attorney general in New York. The companies, according to the attorney general, Eliot L. Spitzer, had violated their stated privacy policies by providing information to telemarketing companies and advertisers without the full knowledge and consent of customers. B1.
 
Merging Led Zeppelin and Sinatra
When the newly created AOL-Time Warner further consolidated its pop power by announcing plans this week to merge with EMI Group, it was a message about content. EMI's catalog includes the Beatles, the Beach Boys, the Rolling Stones, Frank Sinatra and Garth Brooks. If made available for direct digital download online alongside Warner Music's superstars (from Madonna to Led Zeppelin to the Eagles), this could hasten public acceptance of the music computer file as an alternative to the CD. E1.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 11,029.89 up 21.72
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.63% down 0.02
The euro -- $1.0012 down 0.0037
The dollar -- 105.89 yen up 0.21
 
Graph tracks the daily closing price of Proctor & Gamble shares since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); JNJ (NYSE) (66%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); SIC8249 VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS, NEC (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (56%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); SYLVAN PROMETRIC (56%); PFIZER INC (55%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); HOLDING DI PARTECIPAZIONI INDUSTRIALI SPA (52%); QUALCOMM INC (51%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); ITALY (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (56%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); LAWYERS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); JUDGES (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (56%); BARRY F SCHWARTZ (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



656 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
Beware Guys Named Junior

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Al Gore wants to be the person who says how things go. But if you wanna be boss, you gotta be willing to whack some people. You gotta get Bill Bradley to donate his kneecaps. You gotta put your (expletive) rivals in a Luca Brasi situation. Bradley may have run Jersey once, but he was never a made guy in the administration. He never reached the heights.
So Al Gore is hardening his position. Bradley can show some (expletive) respect and drop out . . . or it's gonna be a rainy night in Lyndhurst. 
 Who knew, with all the candidates promising to run positive and upbeat campaigns, that Al Gore would turn into Tony Soprano -- a thoughtful and increasingly self-aware family man who always does what he has to do?
Who knew that those polite and upright Iowans would reject the polite and upright Bill Bradley?
This week the Iowa caucuses and the Golden Globes made it official: Thuggery is chic.
The homely caucuses and the glittery Hollywood awards have more in common than you might think. As my friend Eric Mink, the TV critic of The New York Daily News, puts it: "They're both phony events concocted almost entirely for media exposure. They're decided by a tiny number of wholly unrepresentative people with dubious to nonexistent credentials. The politicians and celebrities kiss up to the voters. The results are objectively worthless, but they are granted self-fulfilling significance by the media as supposed bellwethers of the more legitimate contests that follow."
Winners Al and Tony both have rivals nicknamed Junior. They both have the Teamsters on their side, and savor new technology -- Tony's soldiers hijacked a truckload of DVD players. They both have health care plans. Tony's involves setting up fake clinics and billing the insurance companies for phony M.R.I.'s.
They both care about values. "Nowadays there are no values," Tony frets to his shrink, about how mob captains will no longer go to prison rather than break the code of silence. "Guys today have no room for the penal experience."
And they appreciate therapy, even though they are in businesses that traditionally scorned sharing inner feelings. ("What they didn't know," Tony says, "is once they got Gary Cooper in touch with his feelings they wouldn't be able to shut him up.")
The veneer of suburban domesticity in Tony Soprano's life -- watching his daughter's volleyball games, barbecuing sausages for his pals -- is interrupted by random, self-interested acts of violence.
In Iowa, Mr. Gore added verbal roughhouse to his touchy-feely campaign, pounding Mr. Bradley as an insensitive man who would "tear down" Medicaid and who betrayed farmers by voting against a 1993 flood-relief amendment.
"The single most dramatic change has been Al Gore's transformation from wooden soldier to junkyard dog," Time marveled. The magazine observed that the Gore aide Carter Eskew, whose ad campaign derailed the administration's attempts for a tobacco deal, "has fostered Gore's instinct to go for the jugular." (Or, as the Soprano capos cajole a man with a broken leg, "Do you want to go for a walk on the rocks?")
Newsweek recounts how Mr. Gore surrounded himself with Washington's version of "cold-blooded" made men: "He knew what he wanted: a posse of the 'Unforgiven,' who care more about winning than being liked."
Playing rough, Al Gore brings to mind Tony Soprano. But the Bushes have been dubbed "the WASP Corleones." Those who do not abide by the Bush code -- either you're with us or you're not -- may find themselves summering with the fishes.
This race, despite its posturing about civility, is really about revenge. Bill Clinton wants to avenge himself on the Republicans. And W. wants to avenge his father's loss in 1992. Vendetta 2000.
Iowa had only just crowned Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore when the vice president clipped his Republican rival as a threat to the economy and abortion rights.
So now we go to the mattresses: a war of restitution by the sons of two established families, each surrounded by ruthless capos.
Maybe the ratings will increase. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); CELEBRITIES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (66%); MEDICAID (62%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%); INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); DOWD, MAUREEN AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



657 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Being Bob Forehead

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
In the opening scene of "Washingtoon," Mark Alan Stamaty's classic Reagan-era political comic strip, an insomniac plutocrat is impressed by a late-night infomercial host. "Anyone who can sell glow-in-the-dark coat hangers to me could probably sell supply-side economics to America," he declares. And thus, with guidance from the nation's leading charismatician, begins the career of Congressman Bob Forehead.
The strong performance by Steve Forbes in the Iowa caucuses shows that a good charismatician, with a hefty budget, can do well even with unpromising raw material. But why does the wealthy publisher feel the need to be his own Bob Forehead? Is he just a capitalist fool? 
 Many commentators have speculated about the candidate's personal motivations. And of course, rich men in general are made more likely to run for office by campaign finance laws that allow an individual of means to lavish hard money on his own campaign but not on someone else's. But the reason this restriction matters so much is that Mr. Forbes is all alone, forced to finance a supply-side campaign single-handed -- because the rest of his party isn't interested. After all, who needs another crusade when you've already won?
Consider, if you will, how America at the end of the Rubin-Summers administration compares with America at the end of the previous Democratic presidency. In 1980 the wealthiest taxpayers faced a marginal tax rate of 70 percent -- that is, they got to keep only 30 cents of each extra dollar they earned. Now they get to keep more than 60 cents. In 1980 conservative social critics warned that excessively generous welfare was sustaining a culture of poverty; in the 90's Bill Clinton ended welfare as we knew it. In the late 70's powerful unions extracted huge wage increases in industries like autos and steel; today only one private-sector worker in ten is unionized, and the unions that remain are shadows of their former selves.
And even more important than these changes in policy is the changing shape of the economy itself. In 1980 conservative critics used to complain that enterprise was not being rewarded, that stock prices had declined in real terms, that America was becoming a society in which it just wasn't worth trying to get rich. Twenty years later, after a decade that makes the 1920's seem merely meowing by comparison, it is hard to see what more the rich could ask for.
So why can't people like Steve Forbes simply declare victory and go home? The well-off would, of course, like to see even lower taxes -- which George W. Bush, his life made easy by the revenues a booming economy generates, promises to deliver. (Is he sincere, or is he just doing this because that is what Republicans are supposed to do? Who knows?) But there is one important thing that the supply-side movement has not gotten, and still desperately wants: intellectual vindication.
Put it this way: Mr. Bush's economic advisers, at least the ones whose names have appeared in the press, are -- it pains me to say this -- reasonable men. Translated, that means they have a view about the way the world works that differs in some important details but not in broad outlines from the view held by a mainstream economist like me -- or, for that matter, Larry Summers. And that reasonableness is what drives Mr. Forbes up the wall.
For Mr. Forbes is, intellectually at least, the true heir of the Reagan revolution -- a revolution that was supposed to sweep the ideas of all those establishment types from Wall Street and Harvard into the dustbin of history. The true believers didn't want a scaled-back welfare state, they wanted a repudiation of the whole idea of a social safety net. They didn't want economic policy that worried less about Keynesian demand management and more about incentives, they wanted an official declaration that Keynesian economics was a fraud. Call it idealism, call it vanity -- the supply-side cause has always contained more than its share of frustrated academics (Newt Gingrich, Dick Armey) -- but the movement Mr. Forbes represents wants nothing less than unconditional victory.
The Republican establishment, however, isn't interested. It has gotten what it wanted; now it's mainly a matter of protecting its gains. And it doesn't need Bob Forehead, because it's got George Bush.
Or maybe it's the same thing. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); INFOMERCIALS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); 

PERSON: FORBES, STEVE (MALCOLM S FORBES JR); KRUGMAN, PAUL BILL CLINTON (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



658 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Strongman From Congo Seeks Image Change at U.N. Meeting

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Elusive and unpredictable, President Laurent Kabila of Congo kept the United Nations guessing about whether he would attend a special Security Council session on the war in his country almost until his plane landed on Friday night, disgorging the largest of seven presidential parties for what has become an impromptu African summit.
Having decided to come, however, Mr. Kabila and his advisers are making the most of his first visit to the United States to try to give his government a new image. Mr. Kabila, a radical of the Che Guevara period and mold, finally fought his way to power in 1997 in what was then called Zaire, overthrowing the dictator Mobutu Sese Seko. He has since acquired a record of strong-arm politics, suppression of the press and human rights abuses that he will not let the United Nations investigate. 
 In New York, with the help of a Washington lobbyist, John Aycoth and his EAW group, Mr. Kabila has sought out reporters and television producers. He portrays Congo as a country that, after struggling for years to cope with the vast flow of refugees fleeing the Tutsi-Hutu violence in Rwanda, was then besieged by turncoat governments in Rwanda and Uganda, countries it once counted as allies and which now support rebels trying to oust Mr. Kabila.
He urges American officials to stop supporting his enemies in the interests of peace. He has convinced himself that the Clinton administration is listening.
Today Mr. Kabila met for three hours with six fellow African presidents and Secretary General Kofi Annan. He is ready to cooperate to end the war, he told reporters over breakfast, because another year of war would devastate his country.
Before they leave later this week, the African leaders assembled here are expected to endorse a call to revive a dormant peace agreement signed last July in Lusaka, Zambia. With that agreement back on track, diplomats say, there could be serious talk about creating a United Nations peacekeeping force for one of the world's most complex recent wars.
For Mr. Kabila, there is more riding on this trip than image, diplomats and other experts on Africa say. Increasingly isolated at home and abroad, his last, best chance, diplomats say, is international guarantees that all sides can be disarmed in the Congo war, which is draining the economies of other countries drawn into it -- and contributing to the spread of AIDS in Africa through troops from around the region.
A Western diplomat said today that Mr. Kabila faced a sharply narrowing support base. In military terms, this diplomat said, he has become dependent on the Zimbabweans under President Robert Mugabe, although he also gets some help from Angola and Namibia, and draws recruits from the former Hutu militias of Rwanda, which were driven out of the country into Congo in 1994.
"This war is costing all the countries of the region," the diplomat said. "Mugabe wants out but can only get out with a face-saving exit. There were economic interests, and a lot of business deals were cut in Congo. But the costs of engagement in the war are becoming greater than the economic gains."
Experts say Rwanda and Uganda are also feeling the pinch.
When Richard C. Holbrooke, the American representative at the United Nations and this month's Security Council president, toured Africa in December and asked all the nations involved in one side or another of the war in Congo to come to New York for a special session of the council, most accepted with alacrity. Getting Mr. Kabila to come was more difficult, Mr. Holbrooke said in an interview today.
"Without Kabila this meeting would have had a completely different context because it would not have had the president, whether you like him or not, of the country we were discussing, and that would have reduced the value of the meeting," Mr. Holbrooke said. "Our goal here to prevent this war in Congo from metastasizing into the neighborhood."
Mr. Holbrooke enlisted Mr. Mugabe; Mr. Annan; President Jose Eduardo dos Santos of Angola; and the American ambassador in Congo, William Swing, to prevail on Mr. Kabila not to let this opportunity pass.
Maurice Tempelsman, chairman of the Corporate Council on Africa, a private business group that promotes investment and development, said Mr. Kabila may have calculated that he had more to lose by staying away.
"I think one has to step back and say, what are his options?" said Mr. Tempelsman, who has extensive mining interests in Africa. "He would have been facing the condemnation of the international community for not wanting to even appear. I think it's essential for his people and it's essential for him to come to some resolution of this conflict. His own power base at home is eroding. He came in with promise and great hope and unfortunately he has not been able to deliver."
Diplomats say it is too soon to know if there will be long-term gains from the meeting Mr. Holbrooke pulled together. "Some people say that the risks of getting involved in such a difficult effort -- and failing -- are so great that we can't risk national prestige," he said today. "I think that is a cold war view.
Mr. Tempelsman said the cold war was over in Africa too, and leaders realized that old backers were gone and that the decisions made by African leaders would have consequences that they would have to deal with themselves.
"The rest of the world is sympathetic and encouraging, but the leadership has to come from within," he said. "If success is achieved here that will be a very important, a very major breakthrough." Among other achievements, he said, it will make Africa more attractive to the investors its countries seek.
"Few private sector companies will deploy their people and take the risks inherent in that, or deploy their capital in a conflict situation," Mr. Tempelsman said. "On a whole series of scores, and certainly in terms of development, the first step is capacity for conflict resolution. It's not that conflicts won't happen. But it's how you resolve them, how you deal with them, which this in an ad hoc fashion may produce."
The involvement of the Security Council, he added, gives the Africans' own effort a kind of international recognition. "This is basically using a historical, cultural African way of resolving things - palaver - and putting it into the machinery the international community has for dealing with conflicts."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Laurent Kabila of Congo, center, leaving the United Nations Plaza Hotel yesterday. Mr. Kabila, on his first trip to the United States, is attending sessions of the Security Council with other African leaders. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RWANDA (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); UGANDA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE); ZAMBIA; AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RWANDA (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); UGANDA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); LOBBYING (56%); 

PERSON: KABILA, LAURENT (PRES); CROSSETTE, BARBARA; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



659 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: FEDERAL SURPLUS SOARS IN FORECAST BY BUDGET OFFICE

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Driven by the strong economy and the resulting flood of tax revenues, the federal budget surplus will surge over the next decade to levels that would have been inconceivable only a few years ago, the Congressional Budget Office said in a report made public today.
By one measure, the surplus outside of the Social Security system for the next 10 years would total more than $1.9 trillion, nearly twice as much as estimated by the budget office last year, the report said. 
 Using other assumptions that provide for higher spending levels, the 10-year surplus projections outside of Social Security would range from $838 billion to more than $1.8 trillion.
The surplus in the Social Security system, which is projected to turn into a deep deficit within 20 years as the baby boom generation retires, was estimated by the budget office at $2.3 trillion over 10 years.
Long-term budget projections have proven notoriously volatile and unreliable. A decade ago, when deficits appeared immutable, no one would have dared to predict that the government would be in surplus today. But just as the long economic expansion has now brightened the fiscal picture more than expected, so too could a downturn darken it.
No matter how the new surplus numbers are qualified, they are big and will effectively expand the parameters of an election-year debate over how best to use the bounty of the nation's prosperity.
Even before the new estimates emerged, all the leading presidential candidates had offered plans to divide the surplus among tax cuts, spending programs, reducing the national debt and putting Social Security and Medicare on sounder footing. The sharp divisions on the campaign trail mirror the political and ideological clash in Washington that has left Congress and the Clinton administration deadlocked over fiscal policy for the last several years.
The increase in the surplus estimates also allowed the Republican majority in Congress to claim that it had stuck to its pledge not to dip into Social Security money to pay for general government operations during the current fiscal year. The Social Security money is instead going toward debt reduction.
Under prior projections by the budget office, the spending bills passed by Congress last year required borrowing $17 billion from Social Security this year. But the new projections show that there will be an operating surplus for this year of $23 billion, a swing of $40 billion that insulates Republicans from charges of fiscal irresponsibility.
The Clinton administration will issue its own surplus projections in two weeks. President Clinton has laid out an ambitious series of tax and spending initiatives in the last few weeks in an indication that the budget proposal he sends to Congress next month will not be shy about putting the projected surplus to use.
But in an effort to bolster his case that spending increases in an era of surpluses can coexist with fiscal prudence, Mr. Clinton said today that he intended to push for accelerated repayment of the national debt.
Mr. Clinton said he would offer a plan to pay off by 2013 the entire $3.6 trillion owed by the federal government to the public in the form of Treasury bonds. He did not provide details. Last year Mr. Clinton proposed a similar plan to pay off the public debt by 2015, and House Republicans are also developing a plan that would eliminate the public debt by 2015.
The total national debt of $5.7 trillion includes both the public debt and more than $2 trillion owed by the government to the Social Security system.
The budget office figures go only to 2010, but they show that the debt would be reduced to $941 billion by that point if all of the Social Security surpluses are used for debt reduction, as both parties have more or less agreed to do.
The political ramifications of the new surplus estimates could be substantial. In Congress, Democrats said that with so much money on the table it would be increasingly difficult for them to beat back all Republican efforts to cut taxes. In particular, Democrats are considering supporting some version of proposals by Republicans to reduce the so-called marriage penalty paid by many two-income couples.
Republicans said the bigger pot of money will increase the pressure on them to agree to some version of Mr. Clinton's main priority, an expansion of Medicare to include prescription drug coverage.
In the Republican presidential race, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas will be able to claim that his big tax cut proposal is more prudent than it looked when the surplus estimate was smaller. On the Democratic side, former Senator Bill Bradley might be less vulnerable to assertions by Vice President Al Gore that his health-care and poverty-fighting programs are budget-busters.
The budget office offered three plans that provide a sense of what the government's books would look like under different assumptions about spending levels.
The main projection, yielding a non-Social Security surplus estimate of $1.92 trillion over 10 years, uses assumptions that have been standard for budget forecasting for a decade. It assumes that Congress and the administration will cut spending for each of the next two years to meet spending limits written into law in 1997, and then hold spending increases to the rate of inflation for the rest of the decade.
The two parties have shattered the spending caps each of the last two years in all but the most technical sense. With the surplus growing, there is almost no one on Capitol Hill who advocates trying to meet the limits next year. Doing so would require cutting outlays in annually appropriated programs -- the third of the total federal budget that includes most operations other than Social Security, Medicare and interest payments -- to $579 billion next year from $606 billion this year.
Many Republicans support use of another set of numbers that starts with current spending levels but then assumes that spending is frozen, without any adjustment for inflation, at that level for the rest of the decade. Under such a plan, the non-Social Security surplus would total $1.86 trillion over 10 years.
But many Democrats said that a freeze was totally unrealistic, especially since even the Republican-led Congress has regularly voted for spending increases. Democrats tend to prefer the third plan, under which spending is assumed to start at current levels and then to grow at the inflation rate for the rest of the decade. Under that plan, the non-Social Security surplus over 10 years would be $838 billion, far less than under either of the two other options.
Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who heads the Senate Budget Committee, said that Republicans had not decided which surplus projections to use and that he might develop a fourth option. But he said it was unlikely that there would be any effort to cut spending to adhere to the limits set in 1997, suggesting that the caps would be scrapped this year or reset at higher levels.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BALANCE SHEET: Depends on How You Look at It"
Three separate estimates of the federal non-Social Security budget surplus, according to the Congressional Budget Office. The first graph shows cumulative annual surplus estimates. One line demontrates the growth at the rate of inflation. Another is frozen at fiscal 2000 levels. While a third follows '97 budget caps through 2002; grows at rate of inflation thereafter. A second chart estimate assumes spending: The Politics; Generally, Republicans prefer surplus estimates that freeze spending levels, while Democrats favor those that provide for spending growth. The last chart shows surplus over ten years. (pg. A17)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; NATIONAL DEBT (US); SOCIAL SECURITY (US); GOVERNMENT BONDS BUDGETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MEDICARE (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); BONDS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



660 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
2nd Swedish Diplomat Is Proposed for Arms Post
Leading members of the Security Council, stalled over the nomination of a new chief arms inspector for Iraq, have apparently decided to ask Secretary General Kofi Annan to withdraw the name of Rolf Ekeus, a Swedish diplomat, and offer the job to another Swedish disarmament expert, Hans Blix. A1
 
Barak Praises Syrian President
Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel offered a public assessment that President Hafez al-Assad of Syria is an honorable partner in peacemaking, issuing a statement seemingly aimed at luring the Syrians back to the negotiating table. Also, Lebanese security officials said an Israeli soldier was killed in southern Lebanon when guerrillas fired a rocket at an Israeli military outpost. A3 
 
Aftermath of Thailand Siege
Thai troopers in Ratchaburi displayed the bodies of the gunmen who had seized a Thai hospital before troopers stormed the building and freed hundreds of traumatized but unharmed hostages. The twin 12-year-old boys who lead the band of ethnic Karen fighters were not among the dead, apparently having sat out the raid. A8
 
Malaysia Sex Trial On, Then Off
The sexual misconduct trial of Malaysia's opposition leader, Anwar Ibrahim, reopened in Kuala Lumpur after a two-month recess, but the proceedings were adjourned for a day because Mr. Anwar's lawyers said he needed more time to establish his defense against sodomy charges. A9
 
China Says Scholar Confessed
Chinese government officials said Song Yongyi, a scholar based in the United States who has been in a Beijing prison for nearly six months on charges of providing confidential information to foreigners, has admitted to his crime. Academics and lawyers involved in the case said Mr. Song continued to maintain his innocence. A9
 
China-U.S. Military Talks
United States administration and defense officials said the first visit to Washington by a senior Chinese military official since an American warplane bombed the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade would produce only a modest series of military exchanges. The deputy chief of the People's Liberation Army general staff began meeting with defense and State Department officials on Monday. A9
 
Failed Move in Mexico Strike
Juan Ramon de la Fuente, the president of the national university in Mexico City, marched to the university campus to appeal to student rebels to reopen the classrooms, in an effort to break the impasse with student strikers who have shut down the university for nine months. A7
 
Colombian Lobbies for U.S. Aid
President Andres Pastrana began campaigning in Washington for Congress to approve more than a billion dollars in emergency aid to his government, but he argued against attempts to tie the aid to his military's actions on human rights. A7
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A10-19
 
Budget Office Predicts A Stratospheric Surplus
The federal budget surplus will surge over the next decade to $1.9 trillion, a level that would have been inconceivable only a few years ago, the Congressional Budget Office said in a report that credited the nation's strong economy and resulting flood of tax revenues. A1
 
Fight Over Smokers' Share
A legal fight is emerging over whether smokers are entitled to any of the the money in the $206 billion settlement that 46 states reached with the nation's top cigarette makers. Lawyers in eight states are preparing to file class-action lawsuits on behalf of Medicaid recipients who suffered from smoking-related illnesses. A1
 
New Hampshire Challenge
As the presidential candidates reached New Hampshire, the issue of abortion, which influenced the Republican race in Iowa, took a new turn. Many of the independent-minded voters in New Hampshire, a state that favors abortion rights, worry that the candidates' positions on abortion are too strident. A1
 
Weapons Training Talks
The White House has agreed to a request by Pedro J. Rossello, the governor of Puerto Rico, to step in and accelerate negotiations with the Navy about resuming weapons training on its base on the island of Vieques. A12
 
Cuban Boy's Relatives Yield
Elian Gonzalez's Miami relatives, threatened with an order from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, agreed to permit the 6-year-old boy to meet his Cuban grandmothers privately at a neutral location outside the family's house. President Clinton suggested that he would veto legislation that would make Elian an American citizen. A10
 
Clothing Factories Improve
Apparel and footwear factories overseas have slowly improved working conditions in response to a highly vocal anti-sweatshop movement, labor rights advocates say. A10
 
Los Angeles Drops School Plan
School officials, faced with intractable environmental problems and the spiraling costs of treating them, voted to abandon their $170 million effort to build a high school in one of the city's most densely populated neighborhoods. The high school would have been the most expensive in the United States. A10
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Surprise Storm Cuts Swath Across the Northeast
A powerful storm took the Northeast by surprise, shutting thousands of schools and businesses, making a mess of roads and airports, and resulting in at least six deaths. Officials at the National Weather Service acknowledged that their forecasts had failed to predict the size, intensity or course of the storm until late Monday night. A1
 
The storm shut government offices in Washington. B6
 
Diallo Case to Be Televised
The trial of four police officers charged with murdering Amadou Diallo, left, will be televised, the state judge in the case ruled. He also said the 1952 statute banning cameras in New York courtrooms was unconstitutional. A1
 
Giuliani's Building Plans
Mayor Giuliani is promoting an array of grand public works as he enters perhaps his last 11 months in office. Some ideas are new, many are recycled and one, a rail-freight tunnel under New York Harbor, is older than the mayor himself. B1
 
A Partisan Wrinkle
Democrats on the New York State Board of Elections are expected to vote today to allow Senator John McCain's name on the March 7 Republican ballot in eight congressional districts, thwarting state Republicans' plans to clear the field for Gov. George W. Bush. A1
 
Companies Settle a Complaint
Chase Manhattan Bank and a Denver-based Internet company, InfoBeat, will no longer routinely share personal or financial information about their customers with other companies, under a settlement announced by the New York attorney general. B1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
ARTS E1-12
 
EDUCATION B8
 
13 More Charter Schools
A New York State education board approved the fall opening of 13 charter schools, including five in New York City. The approvals will increase more than fourfold the number of charter schools in the state. B4
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-28
 
AT&T's Earnings Drop
AT&T, in the middle of perhaps the most ambitious corporate makeover in the land, beat analyst earnings estimates by 2 cents, posting financial results strikingly similar to those of the last three quarters. C1
 
Asian Phone Company Talks
An executive involved in merger talks between Singapore Telecommunications and Cable and Wireless HKT, based in Hong Kong, said the companies hope to announce a deal by the end of next week. It would create one of Asia's largest carriers. C1
 
Departure From Fidelity
J. Gary Burkhead, the longtime right-hand man to the owner of the mutual fund company, said he would retire on Feb. 1 as vice chairman. C1
 
Stocks Rebound From Slump
The Nasdaq rose 71.33 points, to 4,167.41. The S.&P. 500 climbed 8.50 points, to 1,410.03, and the Dow gained 21.72 points, to 11,029.89. C14
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES C29
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH 
 
America's Health Mileposts
The Clinton administration issued goals intended to improve the health of the population over the next decade. A13
 
DINING F1-12
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: The law on campaign money; Elian Gonzalez and Congress; danger within Pakistan; return of the white stuff.
Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E9
 
TV Listings E12
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D5
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); CHINA (94%); SYRIA (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (92%); LEBANON (92%); SERBIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); CHINA (94%); SYRIA (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (92%); LEBANON (92%); SERBIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (87%); BUDGETS (83%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); STRIKES (76%); LAWYERS (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (75%); APPROVALS (73%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); LOBBYING (69%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (69%); MISCONDUCT (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



661 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1858 words

HEADLINE: Master Plans or Pipe Dreams;
Giuliani Proposes Monuments; Skeptics See Fantasies

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
All New York City mayors dream about changing the face of their realm, of erecting a physical legacy. Fiorello La Guardia is remembered for his public housing, the airport that bears his name and the alliance he forged with Robert Moses, the most grandiose builder of all. John V. Lindsay fought for urban renewal. Edward I. Koch is credited with the rehabilitation of the South Bronx, and David N. Dinkins made the deal with Disney that led to the new Times Square.
And Rudolph W. Giuliani? Even some of his supporters say that the mayor's legacy will be in cleaning up the streets, not in changing the way they look with the creation of great monuments -- a point of view that, not incidentally, sent Mr. Giuliani into a seven-minute panegyric lauding his building accomplishments at a news briefing last week. 
 "Give me a break!" the mayor said. "Boy, that is the most warped analysis I've ever heard. We've done more building in New York City in any administration in about 50 years."
By Monday, Mr. Giuliani's aides had compiled a handy list of more than 100 completed or planned construction projects during the mayor's six years in office, including the restoration of City Hall Park and the revitalization of the Lower Manhattan's business district. But much of what Mr. Giuliani takes credit for, including the Conde Nast building and the ABC studio in Times Square, reflects his administration's ability to bask in the most robust New York City economy in history, and to grant billions of dollars in tax breaks to corporations and private developers.
Now, with perhaps only 11 months left in office, the mayor is promoting a fantastic array of great public works, many of them suitable for Giuliani legacy status or at least for his undeclared United States Senate campaign. Some ideas are new, many are recycled and one, a rail-freight tunnel under New York Harbor that could cost $4 billion, is older than the mayor himself.
All were offered in the mayor's Jan. 13 State of the City speech, which will be his last if he defeats Hillary Rodham Clinton in this year's Senate race.
Here, then, is a look at the politics, history and viability of four of the mayor's pet projects: the rail-freight tunnel, a stadium and Olympic complex called Midtown West on the Hudson River, the proposed sale of the Board of Education's decrepit headquarters at 110 Livingston Street and $5 million in improvements to East River Park -- one of the few projects, the mayor's critics say, that has the possibility of life.
The same critics predict that most of Mr. Giuliani's projects will founder in the inevitable political, environmental and economic battles, and that the mayor, who is often at war with the people he needs as collaborators, is in any case too late.
"I don't believe that anything he proposes in the sixth year of his administration that relates to large-scale construction projects can really get done," said Ester Fuchs, the director of the Center for Urban Research and Policy at Columbia University. "There's not enough time."
 Mr. Giuliani's supporters counter that the mayor's proposals are literally Olympian but realistic. "I think that only a big plan can be sold," said Alexander Garvin, the planning director for NYC 2012, the organization that is trying to lure the Olympics to New York City and that created Mr. Giuliani's $2 billion proposal for the West Side stadium.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, who supports the rail-freight tunnel but not the stadium, agreed in principle that prosperous times should produce larger-scale projects. "It's always good for the mayor to advocate," he said. "To think big is the right idea."
One thing is certain: mayors are often so overwhelmed by the demands of the city's infrastructure that it is impossible for them to think of erecting monuments the way Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller did -- the World Trade Center, for example, or Battery Park City. "That's like God came down and created them, and you associate yourself with God," Mr. Koch said. "But God doesn't do sewers. Mayors do sewers."
 The mayor's most behemoth proposal is the tunnel, which advocates acknowledge will never capture the imagination of most New Yorkers. "It is not politically sexy, and it does not have a natural constituency," said H. Claude Shostal, the president of the Regional Plan Association, a private planning group.
But that group clearly does not include the mayor, who first brought up the tunnel during his 1997 State of the City speech. He did not mention it in his 1998 and 1999 speeches, but revived it this year, conveniently timed to the completion of a two-year study, overseen by the city and paid for largely by the federal government, that is expected to recommend in May that the tunnel be built.
"It is not a pipe dream," said Representative Jerrold L. Nadler of Manhattan, a Democrat, who has been promoting the tunnel for more than two decades.
The tunnel would run from either New Jersey or Staten Island to a redeveloped Brooklyn waterfront, and would be a rail path into the city for such consumer products as furniture, appliances and construction materials. The study already estimates that it would divert 10 percent of the 35,000 large trucks that flow into the city each day, easing pollution and wear on the roads.
Advocates say that people who consider rail transport a thing of the past are themselves 10 years out of date. "Quite the contrary," said Seth Kaye, executive vice president for transportation at the Economic Development Corporation, the city agency overseeing the study. "Rail is a very efficient way to move goods. People can talk all they want about the information economy, but until you can figure out how to deliver your goods through a modem, we're going to be relying on trucks and rail."
Skeptics call the tunnel a mayoral fantasy, and point out that plans for it have festered since 1921, when the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey was created to build it.
"We've survived for almost a century without the tunnel, and we're going to survive for another century without the tunnel," said Mitchell Moss, the director of the Taub Urban Research Center at New York University and co-author of a 1998 report contending that the tunnel would harm Brooklyn businesses and funnel thousands of additional trucks onto the Gowanus Expressway. "The purpose of this project is to give elected officials something to say. No one ever expects it to be built."
Even those who support the tunnel, like Mr. Shostal, say the immediate hurdles are questions about who will pay for it and whether the mayor can work well with others, particularly the Port Authority, which Mr. Giuliani has long complained favors New Jersey at the expense of New York City.
"The funding hasn't been spelled out, who would build it hasn't been spelled out, and the mayor is at such war with the Port Authority, which is the most likely candidate to provide some of the funding to build it," Mr. Shostal said.
Mr. Giuliani's most ardent proposal is an expansion of plans to build a home for both the New York Jets and the 2012 Olympics with a stadium that would have a retractable roof and stretch from 30th to 34th Street on the far West Side.
"He's got stadiums on the brain, and they're not going to be built," Mr. Koch said. "It's the environmental aspect, plus the money. It can't support the introduction of cars."
Mr. Garvin, whose NYC 2012 committee commissioned the plans for the stadium complex that the mayor excitedly held up during his State of the City speech, disagreed.
The project, he said, would not only be a stadium but also a goliath redevelopment of an underused area of Manhattan, and is to include nothing less than a 7.5-acre public square, two convention hotels, a new Madison Square Garden, an Olympic media center and an expansion of the Javits Convention Center -- all to be reachable through new rail stations that would extend service on Metro-North, the Long Island Rail Road and the No. 7 subway line.
Mr. Garvin, a professor of urban planning at Yale University and a member of the City Planning Commission, said that much of the project would be paid for by private developers and that the proposal was still "a work in progress." He acknowledged that it needed approval and cooperation from "everybody under the sun."
Everybody includes not only Madison Square Garden, the Javits Center and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, but also Gov. George E. Pataki, who has never endorsed the project and with whom the mayor has a contentious relationship.
The project is also dependent on the Jets, who have not made a deal with the city to move from New Jersey, and the United States Olympic Committee, which will decide in 2002 whether New York beats out seven other American cities, including San Francisco, Dallas, Cincinnati and Baltimore-Washington, for the right to be the sole United States competitor among cities at the international level.
The International Olympics Committee will make its final decision on a 2012 site in 2005.
 Mr. Giuliani's most politically pointed project is his proposal to sell 110 Livingston Street, the Board of Education's historic, leaking headquarters in downtown Brooklyn and the object of much mayoral scorn.
Although listeners at first thought Mr. Giuliani was joking -- particularly when he caustically said that a modern, "smart building" a fourth the size of Livingston Street would be good for the board he ultimately wants to abolish -- he was serious.
So, apparently, is the Board of Education, which must approve the sale. "There's no attachment to this building," said William C. Thompson Jr., the board president. "I'd like to see the dollars in the budget and what it would bring."
Board officials are still trying to determine the worth of the 12-story Italian-Renaissance-style building, which the American Institute of Architects Guide to New York City describes as "pallid and boring."
Designed by the legendary firm of McKim, Mead & White, board officials said the headquarters was originally three buildings -- an Elks lodge, a courthouse and a third of unknown purpose -- that were built in the 1920's for $6 million. The stock market collapsed a year later, the Elks lodge went into foreclosure in 1933 and the city bought the buildings in 1936 for $950,000. The Board of Education moved in in 1940.
Mr. Giuliani's most practical proposal is the improvement of East River Park, built by Moses in the 1930's and stretching for 57 acres on the Lower East Side from 12th Street to Montgomery Street. The $5 million planned renovation includes landscaping, a bike path, a soccer field with artificial turf, a roller-hockey rink, basketball courts and repair of the park's sea wall.
Anthony P. Coles, the mayor's senior policy adviser, said the money is in Mr. Giuliani's spending plan for the 2001 fiscal year that is to be released on Thursday. "No one is going to argue with this," Mr. Coles said.
 Henry J. Stern, the parks commissioner, added that "at least park proposals in the State of the City speech have a way of happening."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: During his State of the City speech, Mr. Giuliani explained his vision for a rail-freight tunnel under New York Harbor.; If the mayor has his way, 110 Livingston Street, the Board of Education's headquarters in Brooklyn, will be sold.; Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani presenting a rendering of the stadium and Olympic complex proposed for the West Side. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times, top and bottom, and Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times, center)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 2582 (90%); 106 H.R. 2163 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) CONDE NAST TRAVELER (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; EAST RIVER PARK (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; STADIUMS; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; RAILROADS MAYORS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RAIL FREIGHT (66%); SPORTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); SCHOOL BOARDS (63%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (62%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



662 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: When the Rich Get Even Richer

 BODY:

To the Editor:
W. Michael Cox and Richard Alm ask, "Why Decry the Wealth Gap?" (Op-Ed, Jan. 24). First, inequality is correlated with political instability, one of the strongest findings of cross-national research. Second, inequality is correlated with violent crime. Third, economic inequality is correlated with reduced life expectancy, shown by a large and growing body of public health research. 
 A fourth reason? Simple justice. There is no moral justification for chief executives' being paid hundreds of times more than ordinary employees. Social policies that reduce inequality, like progressive taxation and living wages, should be strengthened and expanded for the health and well-being of those not at the top of the pyramid.
 
RICHARD HUTCHINSON
Ogden, Utah, Jan. 24, 2000
 
The writer is an assistant professor of sociology, Weber State University.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: OGDEN, UT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WEBER STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); WEBER STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEBER STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); WEBER STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); OGDEN, UT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SOCIOLOGY (87%); LIVING WAGE (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (56%); EXECUTIVES (53%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: HUTCHINSON, RICHARD; COX, W MICHAEL; ALM, RICHARD RICHARD JOSEPH COX (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



663 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: When the Rich Get Even Richer

 BODY:

To the Editor:
W. Michael Cox and Richard Alm (Op-Ed, Jan. 24) assert that artificial efforts to curb inequality do more harm than good and that Americans ought to care more about growth than inequality. But this overlooks the fact that people of wealth and privilege are in a position to pass great advantages on to their children, while the children of the poor, lacking in resources, fall further behind. 
 Would Mr. Cox and Mr. Alm consider Social Security an "artificial" attempt to curb inequality? It is one of America's most successful and popular programs. Do they think more good would be done by eliminating it?
One by-product of economic inequality is its debilitating effect on social cohesion. Studies show that states and nations with great inequality often have reduced levels of social involvement and trust. These, in turn, are correlated with higher rates of illness and death.
 
GERALD KLOBY
Upper Montclair, N.J., Jan. 24, 2000
 
The writer is coordinator of the Institute for Community Studies, Montclair State University.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY STUDIES (55%); MONTCLAIR STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY STUDIES (55%); MONTCLAIR STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (66%); 

PERSON: KLOBY, GERALD; ALM, RICHARD; COX, W MICHAEL RICHARD JOSEPH COX (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2000



664 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: We're Not All Connected, Yet

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER 

 BODY:
IF, as most people in the computer industry seem to think, the Internet is on its way to becoming the dominant mode of information exchange, then it is no longer a luxury but, like the telephone, a necessity. Anyone without it is in danger of being shut out.
"We've been saying for a long time that this transition is like what happened with telephones, and it's becoming clear to me that a whole lot of people will be left out," said Garrett Gruener, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist who is one of the people working on a solution to the problem. 
 But telephones are a lot easier to provide than computers. And while the so-called digital divide is an easy problem to label, it is a lot stickier to solve.
One of the most visible attempts, and one that illustrates the complexity of providing universal Internet access, is likely to come tonight, when President Clinton, in his State of the Union address, is expected not only to make note of the divide but also to suggest federally sponsored remedies.
Mr. Clinton's budget for next year, according to White House aides, will include some $50 million in competitive grants to communities and organizations involved in efforts to help low-income families go online. Aides said Mr. Clinton will also mention initiatives for teacher training and incentives for businesses to help bridge the gap.
One solution to the technology gap that has already been presented to the administration is the brainchild of a group of Silicon Valley executives, including Mr. Gruener. It is an initiative called ClickStart, a nonprofit organization that would use federal subsidies to help connect millions of low-income Americans to the Internet.
Whether the funds for such a program will materialize is far from certain. Still, the announcement of ClickStart has helped stir awareness of what promises to be a dominant issue for the next decade.
A recent Commerce Department study found that urban households with incomes above $75,000 are more than 20 times as likely to have home Internet access than rural households at the lowest income levels and that the gap for home Internet access between those at the highest and lowest income levels widened sharply from 1997 to 1998.
While many other efforts focus on building technology centers in low-income neighborhoods, ClickStart is focused on providing computers for home use. For a copayment of about $5 per month, each recipient will get a $10 monthly federal subsidy in the form of a voucher. It can be used to buy hardware and Internet access from any vendor participating in the program.
The ClickStart program, if it is financed at all, is scheduled to expire after five years. The reason, say the executives who created the program, is that by then enough people will have received the technology boost they need, market forces will have taken over and prices for hardware and Internet access will have dropped significantly enough to be affordable even to the poor.
"This is just an accelerator," said Eric Schmidt, chief executive of Novell and one of the ClickStart organizers. "We're not trying to create welfare here."
The subsidy, paired with the copayment, adds up to $180 a year, which the ClickStart organizers say is enough to buy both a functional PC and Internet access. Increasingly, low-cost PC's are being paired with free Internet access, and vice versa. The trade-off, however, is that the user is often besieged by advertising. That makes seasoned technology-access advocates like Daniel Ben-Horin wary.
"Historically, the poor are the most susceptible to advertising generally, the least able to afford to navigate the perils of our consumerist culture and the most prone to being misled by dishonest advertising," said Mr. Ben-Horin, president of CompuMentor in San Francisco, one of the nation's largest providers of technology assistance services to nonprofit groups and schools. At the same time, Mr. Ben-Horin said he lauded the effort as the first one to approach the problem on a large scale.
If Congress fails to approve federal financing to bridge the technology gap, the ClickStart creators say they will not abandon their idea. "We'll continue on a path of trying to raise as much money from the private sector to replace what would otherwise be the $10 subsidy from the feds," said Wade Randlett, who is vice president of an Internet startup company, Red Gorilla, and another ClickStart organizer.
But perhaps even more important than the initial hookup, say many in the nonprofit sector, is a program that takes care not to "dump the hardware and run." A program like ClickStart, they say, must provide follow-through.
"The tough issues here are not the hardware or the software," said Preston Moore, coordinator of the Digital Divide Working Group at the First Unitarian Church of Oakland, Calif., a city that has become a favored test bed for programs seeking to bridge the technology gap. "The tough issues are the brick-by-brick building of connections between people at a very individual level, which is a painstakingly slow process of learning what differences a computer and Internet access can make in a person's life."
Mr. Moore has a grant proposal pending with the AOL Foundation, the online service's philanthropic arm, that would provide technology mentoring. "The idea is to have a person assigned to train, then continue to work with a family after the family has received a computer and Internet access," he said. "And that means getting beyond buying consumer goods on the Internet. It take a lot of patience and a lot of listening, and a lot of humility.
"There's a lot of yearning to solve this problem by throwing technology at it. Don't get me wrong. The technology is essential, but that's not the hard part. The hard part is the person-to-person connections that have to go with it."
The ClickStart creators say this is something they have thought about. Julie Henderson, executive director of the Marcus A. Foster Educational Institute in Oakland, which is helping administer a ClickStart trial there, said her organization will help with ongoing training and support, in Spanish, Chinese and Vietnamese as well as English. Participants in the trial will receive computers from PeoplePC, said Nick Grouf, the company's chief executive.
But some say that simple training and technical support still fall short of what is needed when bringing Internet access to poor areas.
Like Mr. Moore, Mr. Ben-Horin expressed concern that training and support issues might be underestimated.
"There's a tendency to say, 'Here's a machine, here's the software and, maybe, here's some classroom training, now stop whining and use this great stuff,' " Mr. Ben-Horin said. "But that's not enough. What needs in their lives can computers and the Internet help disadvantaged people address? What obstacles are preventing use and how can these obstacles be removed? These are the hard questions a support program for these families will have to address."
Wendy Lazarus, founder and director of the Children's Partnership, a nonprofit organization based in Santa Monica, Calif., said her group had been studying communities across the country, conducting research on needs that extend beyond what Ms. Lazarus called "the boxes and wires."
"What seems clear is that the real meat is in two areas," Ms. Lazarus said. "First, coaching and making sure people can get the technical help that all of us need. And secondly that the information that is on the Internet is of real value to people in underserved communities." The group plans to release a comprehensive set of findings in the next two months.
Amy Borgstrom, executive director of the Appalachian Center for Economic Networks in Athens, Ohio, has been working to bring technology to poor areas for far longer than the topic has been a political issue.
Ms. Borgstrom said the economy of Athens County was devastated when the coal mines left in the 1930's, and the area has yet to recover. "People still have issues of food, clothing and shelter that are more profound than Internet access," she said.
Ms. Borgstrom noted that in Athens County, where 34 percent of the population falls below the poverty line, many households are still without telephone service.
Still, Ms. Borgstrom said, "in the past five or six years it became really clear to us that the Internet was going to become a really important tool for them to be able to expand, create jobs, grow and thrive."
One focus of her work, Ms. Borgstrom said, is working with very small companies that sell locally produced foods. Giving those enterprises Internet access, she said, helps them in a number of ways. It gives them good trend information, as well as useful information about their competitors, and the ability to engage in e-commerce.
"The focus is not Internet access for the sake of Internet access," Ms. Borgstrom said. "But it's the Internet for the really targeted objective of building a sustainable and thriving economy here with lots of good jobs."
Still others take issue with the "digital divide" concept itself. The phrase, wrote Steve Cisler, a consultant in San Jose, Calif., who has written extensively on technology and privilege, is a demeaning and simplistic characterization of a complex problem.
"You are online or offline," Mr. Cisler wrote in a recent editorial in The San Jose Mercury News. "You have a computer or you are without one; you are trained for the digital future or you are in dead-end, low-paying work."
In reality, Mr. Cisler wrote, even those who are online fall somewhere on a spectrum of connectivity. "A few million American families have D.S.L. and cable modem access, and the majority are still using modems of varying speeds," he wrote. "Those in rural areas may have poor phone lines that are an expensive toll call to the closest I.S.P. because 20 percent of the counties do not have an Internet point of presence. Are all of them on one side of the digital divide and those without any access on the other?"
Still, the Silicon Valley executives behind Clickstart are confident that they understand the issue and are doing the right thing. "The problem is there's a set of people for whom $10 to $20 a month is a lot of money," Mr. Schmidt said. "The question is, 'Is society better off if they're online, too,' and the answer is, 'Absolutely.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Garrett Gruener, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist, helps Avone White, standing, and Nichole Watson with their computer skills in a training program in Oakland, Calif. (Fred Mertz for The New York Times)(pg. G9); Nick Grouf, facing camera, demonstrated computers to people in Oakland, Calif. His company, PeoplePC, will provide computers to participants in the ClickStart pilot project. (Fred Mertz for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
 
Chart: "Connections"
Plans to make Internet access as available as telephone service have a long way to go. Wide gaps exist between Internet haves and have-nots. The first graph compares the percentage of U.S. Households Using Telephones, Computers and the Internet. The second graph shows the U.S. Households Using the Internet, by Race, Ethnicity and Income. (Source: U.S. Department of Commerce)(pg. G9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: CLICKSTART (ORGN) IF AS (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLICKSTART (ORGN) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); FAMILY (70%); 

PERSON: HAFNER, KATIE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



665 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 2; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: ARTS ABROAD;
A Senegalese Singer Mixes the Street and the Spiritual

BYLINE: By David Hecht 

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal

 BODY:
Cheikh Ndigel Lo says he would never be able to make his music if it was not for his religion. He is a Mouride. Followers of this distinctly Senegalese Sufi Islamic brotherhood go into trances from hours of chanting, some while beating themselves with wooden clubs.
That is not the kind of music Mr. Lo is known for. One of his new songs is a remake of the Beatles's "Let It Be," though Mr. Lo, who is 44 and speaks little English, has changed those words to "Mbeddemi," meaning "in the street" in the Wolof language. (The song has not been released internationally because of unresolved copyright issues.) 
 In the title track of his new album, "Bambay Gueej" (Jololi/World Circuit), to be distributed in the United States in March by Nonesuch, he sings of how, when the Mouride founder, Amadou Bamba, was exiled by the French colonizers at the beginning of 20th century, he magically turned into the ocean, providing "the salt of life" and connecting continents and cultures.
The songs in the album also change like the ocean, from Cuban salsa, to Congolese soukous, to Nigerian Afrobeat, to Bambara music from Mali, with elements of reggae, funk and jazz. All are peppered with a distinctively Senegalese percussion sound. The final song of the album, "Zikr," is a simple Mouride religious prayer. (Zikr is an Arabic word for the ritual recitation of the names of God.)
So many different styles could become a mishmash. This album is not. "Bambay Gueej" ("Bamba Is the Ocean") has been No. 4 on the European-based World Music Chart since last month after having been No. 1 in November. The Senegalese singer Youssou Ndour and Nick Gold, the owner of World Circuit, caringly produced the album, getting the voice of a Mali singer, Oumou Sangare, for backups on one song, and the Cuban flutist Richard Egues for another.
But Mr. Lo, speaking in French and Wolof, insisted that the real producer behind his music is his marabout or spiritual guide, Maame Massamba Ndiaye Borom Ndigel. Maame (grandfather) "knows the secret of breath," he said, wearing a 4-by-6-inch photograph of the marabout around his neck permanently. The marabout, he said, has "powers that most people cannot even imagine."
From the village of Ndigel the marabout leads a group of holy Mouride warriors known as the Baye Fall who crisscross the hot dusty interior of Senegal, singing, proselytizing and begging. Senegalese often complain that the Baye Fall are loud and bothersome, yet they are also well loved. They dress differently from most Mourides, wearing bright costumes made of patchwork clothes and dreadlocks like the Rastafarians. The Baye Fall say they wear dreadlocks to emulate the Senegalese warriors of old, but they bear no arms. Many, like Mr. Lo, believe in magic.
"I connect to Maame through the earth," he said in his oceanside living room in a Dakar suburb called Mamelles. As he said this, he slapped his hand on the ground. "You think he isn't aware of what's going on in this room right now as we speak? Ha!"
With bulging eyes and resembling Sammy Davis Jr. in dreadlocks, Mr. Lo is considered by the Senegalese to be the most unusual looking Baye Fall of all. He rarely answers questions directly; sometimes he's friendly, other times, suspicious and accusatory. Attempts to cut short his monologues about his marabout are futile: "Maame is with me even when I'm touring the United States," he said. "The connection is stronger than a telephone and more serious than a facsimile machine."
Few followers of the brotherhood claim to have telepathic powers, but there is perhaps a special connection between the thousands of Mourides who have gone out into the world in recent decades. Thousands are street peddlers in cities across the United States, Europe and the Middle East. Their overseas "headquarters" is Manhattan, where many hawk knockoffs of name-brand watches and sunglasses in tourist areas, particularly Times Square. Many live in Harlem; in recent years the corner of 116th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard has become known as Little Senegal.
"Mourides were mostly farmers, growing peanuts for export," said Prof. Leonardo Villalon, author of "Islamic Society and State Power in Senegal." (He is presently teaching in Senegal.) "But with desertification and changes in the economy they have diversified into international trade networks, which are organized around connections to their various marabouts."
Many of these marabouts live in Touba, a holy city founded by Amadou Bamba after he made a deal with the French that enabled him to return from exile on condition that his followers stopped causing unrest. Although Touba lies in the desolate interior, it has become Senegal's second main commercial center, with a market full of merchandise, mostly from New York.
It also has huge white palaces and mausoleums for marabouts, living and dead, and a large library for the many books about and written by Amadou Bamba.
Bamba's philosophy has been called Sufi capitalism, and he has sayings such as "jef jel," meaning in Wolof, "What you earn for yourself, take for yourself." With so many Mourides in Harlem, African-Americans are converting.
"It's not antimodern, it's not antiwomen, its not antilearning," said Wendy Wilson Fall, an African-American Mouride who lives in Dakar. "Mourides are generally considered cosmopolitan, open and tolerant, with a strong tradition of religious discussion, much like the shul tradition among the Jews."
The door to Mouridism is the Baye Fall movement, Ms. Wilson Fall said. "It provides a way of life for people who are not ready for the discipline required of a practiced disciple," she said. Baye Fall members do not fast during the month of Ramadan or observe other basic tenets of Islam. "The emphasis is on intention," she said.
Mr. Lo was born to Mouride parents but showed little interest in the brotherhood when he was younger, and he hated school. Mostly he played music, eventually landing a job at a big hotel in Dakar. "I learned to play whatever the tourists wanted: rock, polka, flamenco, waltzes," he said. He had a big Afro hair style in those days, he said, illustrating by holding his hands about a foot away from each side of his head.
Life, he said, changed after he met his marabout. "Maame connected together all the disparate worlds I inhabit," he said. "Through him I learned to believe and know exactly what it is I believe in. That's very important for a person."
The Sufi brotherhoods hold Senegalese society together. Sixty percent of the economy operates through the Mouride, Mr. Lo said, thumping the floor, and adding, "Make sure you write that down." "We Mourides don't create much though," he said. "We are traders. We exchange."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The singer Cheikh Ndigel Lo insists that the real source of his music is his marabout, or spiritual guide. (Jack Vartoogian)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SENEGAL (95%); MALI (91%); UNITED STATES (56%); 

CITY: DAKAR, SENEGAL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SENEGAL; SENEGAL (95%); MALI (91%); UNITED STATES (56%); DAKAR, SENEGAL (58%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (89%); MUSIC (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); COPYRIGHT (54%); 

PERSON: LO, CHEIKH NDIGEL; HECHT, DAVID MAAME MASSAMBA NDIAYE BOROM NDIGEL (86%); AMADOU BAMBA (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



666 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Dow Ends Mixedas Investors Shift to Financial Companies

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks ended mixed yesterday as gains in financial service companies, partly because of lower bond yields, were offset by a drop in leading technology companies on concern that their sales growth might be slowing.
"Generally the money in technology names is very skittish, and any time there's bad news, they just look for something else to go to," said Peter Gottlieb, the vice president and portfolio manager at First Albany Asset Management in Chicago. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average finished little changed, gaining 3.10 points, or 0.03 percent, to 11,032.99. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed down 5.94 points, or 0.42 percent, to 1,404.09, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 97.5 points, or 2.34 percent, to 4,069.91.
The major catalyst for a switch from technology into financials was a warning from the cellular phone technology company Qualcomm late on Tuesday that its second-quarter product shipments could fall. That sent the previously highflying stock down 24 3/8, to 124 5/8.
"Qualcomm kind of upset some people with their forward-looking statement but that was really an excuse to sell some of the technology shares down," said Guy Truicko, portfolio manager of Unity Management in Garden City, N.Y. "The earnings in general have been stellar so I don't see this as a major shift. Some of the money right now is going into financials."
Financial stocks helped the Dow to remain in positive territory as the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond strengthened, pushing the yield down to 6.57 percent from Tuesday's close of 6.63 percent. American Express rose 1 3/8, to 159 3/4, and J. P. Morgan rose 73/16 , to 123 3/8.
 There was little reaction to initial comments from the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, when he said the central bank's challenge was to avoid potential inflationary imbalances.
Mr. Greenspan, appearing before the Senate Banking Committee, which is considering his reappointment as chairman, made no reference to the immediate outlook for interest rates.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: Graph shows the Dow Jones Industrial Average daily closes for the months of January 1999 through January 2000. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (57%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); FIRST ALBANY ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (57%); QUALCOMM INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); SHIPMENTS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



667 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: A Last Grasp at Posterity

BYLINE: By Edmund Morris; Edmund Morris, the author of "Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan," is writing the second volume of a trilogy on the life of Theodore Roosevelt.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In popular imagination, this has always been a white city: block after block of pale marble buildings that glow even whiter at night, when the floodlights come into play. Under snow, its classical shapes -- domes and pediments, octagons and pyramids -- are linked in a geometry that remains generally pure, thanks to the speed with which government shuts down at the first sight of falling flakes.
Now, as William Jefferson Clinton muses his final State of the Union address, the city is more snowbound than any January I can remember -- whiter, certainly, than it was seven years ago, when I suggested on this page that we give the incoming president a tabula rasa "for at least one day in the four years looming." 
 We not only did that (despite pretty good advance warning that he would besmirch it), but we gave him another tablet four years later -- and look what he scribbled all over it: confessions, apologies, weasel words and constant redrafts of policy, in a hand that expertly forged the orthography of several of his predecessors.
Well, this is his last chance, legislatively speaking, to address himself to posterity. What can he write -- what can he say -- that will impress that notoriously difficult audience? And having said it, will he be able to invest his last few effective months in office with some degree of grace?
On the day that George Bush was elected president in 1988, I sat with Ronald Reagan upstairs in the White House, gazing out across the exquisite geometry of the Mall. He did not seem disturbed by the ebb of power. "This can be a lonely place, you know," he said, sipping a cup of decaf. "You feel so insulated here."
The tranquility of his voice belied his words. Never was there a president more content to be alone (as long as he could sense the nearby hovering of his wife), more certain of the rightness of his executive record, more sure that history would judge him well.
Mr. Clinton, apparently, lacks this majestic self-certainty -- for good or ill, a prerequisite of all true leaders. Hence his reported late-night need to schmooze with friends and former aides by telephone, an instrument Mr. Reagan disliked. Hence his insatiable desire to "grip-and-grin": I'm surprised he never tried to beat Theodore Roosevelt's White House record of 8,150 handshakes in a single day.
T.R. was as gregarious and power-loving as Mr. Clinton, yet just as happy as Ronald Reagan to pack up after two terms and go home. (Having done so, he soon began to chafe, but that's another story.) "I have done my work . . . I have nothing to ask; and I am very grateful to the American people for what they have done for me." When he left town, in weather quite as white as we're having now, he was only 50, and more interested in life than posterity.
Apropos of which, his favorite dialect commentator, "Mr. Dooley," issued a reminder that all presidents should ponder: "Posterity don't vote until after th' polls close." Mr. Clinton may rise to the occasion tonight, as he has done so often before, and even dazzle Congress with his designs for a more perfect Union. But history teaches that such designs usually redound to the honor of the next man. Look how George Bush was celebrated for the fall of the Berlin Wall, and how Mr. Clinton himself has profited from 12 years of Republican economic reforms.
If I may borrow a line from my biography of Ronald Reagan, "In the end what chiefly survives, or should survive, of any Chief Executive is the quality of his personality." In that respect, Mr. Clinton's final legacy will be something less than snow-white.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Luba Lukova)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (69%); 

PERSON: MORRIS, EDMUND; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



668 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1814 words

HEADLINE: Now Playing Europe: Invasion of the Multiplex;
With Subplots on Pride and Environment

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: DUNKIRK, France

 BODY:
Bruno Frydman had few illusions when he set up shop in Paris in 1993 to build the kind of multiplex theaters that helped revolutionize moviegoing in the United States.
Though Mr. Frydman works for a subsidiary of an American company, he is French and well aware of how passionately attached the French can be to homegrown culture. So, when he was asked by his company to open multiplex movie theaters all around Europe, he based his operations in Paris, thinking that if he could make it there he could make it anywhere. 
 Still, it took him six years to get his latest and biggest project built -- a 20-screen, 4,010-seat complex in a harborside shopping center in this French port city of 71,000 on the Straits of Dover, known for its tragic role in World War II.
His experience shows that he was right not to underestimate French pride in film heritage or the resistance of big domestic multiplex developers like Gaumont, Pathe and UGC. And he knew just how strong opposition in Europe can be to the way suburban malls -- often anchored by multiplexes -- chew up the landscape. Which is why he focused on urban projects.
But although similar resistance to sprawl is growing in the United States, in Europe the struggle to preserve historic towns is even more crucial. Urban culture is what defines much of the continent, and the old buildings and churches of inner cities are as important to tourist appeal as are museums and natural beauty.
Despite this tricky atmosphere, Mr. Frydman (pronounced FREED-man), whose company had been recruited by local officials and business groups, managed to get the multiplex built. Success came in part because local politicians, fearful themselves for the future of the city center, blunted environmentalists' concerns by putting the mall next to old downtown shopping streets. But it was also a result of some tough and creative negotiations.
Mr. Frydman's company, AMC Europe S.A. -- a unit of AMC Entertainment, the group that pioneered multiple-screen movie theaters in the United States -- opened the $20 million theater complex here in late November as part of a $110 million shopping mall. Featuring American hits as well as French films, the multiplex has been drawing 15,000 moviegoers a week, not far from the 20,000 that AMC expects when it is at full speed.
Dunkirk and its harborside multiplex illustrate a difficult choice facing Europeans. While some fear for the future of local film industries, developers and theater operators are convincing local planners that downtown shopping centers anchored by large multiplex movie theaters can help offset a decline in the vitality of inner cities. (AMC has been using similar arguments in the United States.)
Indeed, as multiplexes have spread across Europe in the last decade, the number of moviegoers has soared, to 895 million in 1999 from 757 million just five years earlier. Thanks mainly to the explosion of multiplexes, the number of screens rose to 27,466 from 23,108 five years earlier. In Dunkirk, where the decline of heavy industries like steel and chemicals and a drop in port activity have fostered decay in the inner city -- driving unemployment to 15 percent, well above the national average of 10.8 percent -- the complex that houses Mr. Frydman's multiplex created 600 jobs. About 2,000 people applied for the 109 jobs created by the multiplex alone, said Arnaud Charron, its managing director.
But the spread of multiplexes has done little to solidify the position of local filmmaking in Europe, where American-made movies reign supreme at the box office and the commercial success of local films is erratic. In 1998, for instance, the last full year for which statistics are available, the share of American movies in two of the biggest markets, Britain and Germany, climbed to more than 80 percent, from less than 70 percent in 1997, when strong European entries like the British hit "The Full Monty" briefly bolstered the European share. In France, the American share reached almost 70 percent, from slightly above 50 percent.
Karsten Grummitt, managing director of Dodona Research, which follows the film industry, said that "in France and Italy, particularly, where governments protect the film industry, multiplexes are viewed as an intrinsically American plan that lead to American domination of the industry."
In another sting to European pride, the spread of multiplexes has hastened the demise of the grand old movie palaces of the 1920's and 1930's. In Britain, the preservation group English Heritage is pressing the government to add 30 theaters from the glory days of moviegoing before World War II to a list of 120 that enjoy protected status, though some now serve as bingo halls or churches. The mayor of Paris, Jean Tiberi, has asked the French government for help in preserving La Pagode, a faux-Japanese movie theater that is a Parisian landmark, and the Champollion, a movie buffs' sanctuary that was once the haunt of the director Francois Truffaut.
Such conservation efforts have not slowed the spread of the multiplex. In Barcelona, Spain, AMC is putting the finishing touches on a 20-screen outlet in a megamall of 220 stores and restaurants on the site of a former locomotive works. In Manchester, England, developers are transforming a disused cotton mill into a shopping mall anchored by a multiplex.
Investors are not lacking. The Barcelona project is a joint venture of Hines Interests, a Houston developer, and a French partner, Jean Louis Solal. And the biggest financial backer of the Dunkirk project was a Dutch pension fund, Wereldhave.
Little more than a decade since the European debut of the multiplex, some countries already face overbuilding.
In Belgium, for example, a battle erupted earlier this year when UGC of France announced that it would challenge a domestic company, the Kinepolis Group, on its home turf. Kinepolis pioneered the multiplex concept in 1988 with a 25-screen, 7,600-seat monster in Brussels that remains Europe's largest. UGC hopes to capture at least 20 percent of the Belgian market; Kinepolis has had well over half.
So many multiplexes have opened in Rome, where the number of screens rose in the last year to 174 from 138, that Leandro Pesci, managing director of the Safin theater chain of the Cecchi Gori Group, recently complained, "We're cannibalizing each other."
Still, none of this derailed the Dunkirk project. Among its supporters is Bernard Montet, director of retail services of the Dunkirk Chamber of Commerce, which backed the city's 1992 plan to put a stop to suburban mall development (it "sucked people out of the center," he said) and promote a big shopping center near the disused port site that would be anchored by a multiplex theater.
The idea was to create fresh retail space plus parking, so as to draw people back into the city. Four local retailers and a Virgin Superstore would move in along with five restaurants, including McDonald's and the popular French seafood chain Leon de Bruxelles.
To design the multiplex, the city sought out AMC. The French theater operator Gaumont has a multiplex in nearby Calais and did not want to create competition for its own screens. The other two big domestic multiplex developers, UGC and Pathe, a unit of Vivendi, took themselves out of the running for developer of the project because they objected to details of the financing package, which AMC was willing to accept.
Though some local retailers feared the fresh competition that the shopping center would bring, others welcomed it as a source of fresh business, Mr. Montet said.
The greatest disruption from the multiplex, of course, would be faced by the two downtown movie houses -- an eight-screen outlet along Rue Nationale and a 90-seat art house called Studio 43. So, deals needed to be struck.
Philippe Nouveau, the city's chief finance official and a supporter of the project, said the city negotiated an agreement with its owners to close the Rue Nationale outlet, called Les Arcades, and build apartments on the site.
For Studio 43, the situation was trickier. The 90-seat theater receives considerable financial support from the city and was founded in the 1960's as part of the French government's effort to sustain interest in high quality film and the national film heritage. It shows French and foreign films, organizes film seminars and visits by school classes and holds an annual film festival.
According to French law, the mall project required approval by a seven-member commission that included representatives of the national film industry.
Mr. Nouveau and other city officials sought to convince Studio 43's operators that the new multiplex would enhance film, rather than hurt it. "We argued that AMC would raise interest in films by increasing people's taste for them," Mr. Nouveau said. "Our goal, of course, was to increase business in the downtown area."
Mr. Frydman aimed to convince Studio 43 that AMC was not likely to be a fifth column for American movies: though many other multiplex operators are part of big production and distribution companies, Mr. Frydman said, AMC is solely in the business of running theaters.
Fabrice Bassemon, a program director for Studio 43, said he found himself in a quandary. The theater relies on city aid, yet the city was now also the principal promoter of the new multiplex. Indeed, the city's only other movie theater, Les Arcades, was to be sacrificed to the development plan.
In the end, Studio 43 accepted a deal: the multiplex would be built, and AMC would make several concessions to the theater. Among them was an agreement that only Studio 43 would show non-French movies, including popular American films, with the original English-language soundtrack but with French subtitles; the multiplex would show only dubbed versions. Moreover, leaflets with the Studio 43 program would be distributed at no charge at the multiplex.
Mr. Bassemon is skeptical of the long-term effects of AMC's arrival, though the development was impossible to stop because of its larger potential economic benefits.
But the accord has brought short-term benefits, he acknowledged. After all, Les Arcades, which was closed under the deal, had competed with Studio 43 because it regularly featured on two of its eight screens foreign films in the original soundtrack, with subtitles.
So, in December, while AMC showed dubbed French versions of "Sleepy Hollow" by Tim Burton and "Sweet and Lowdown," the latest from Woody Allen, Studio 43 featured them in the original soundtracks with subtitles.
"It's a little bizarre," Mr. Bassemon said, "but that's the accord."
Mr. Frydman says patience and the will to negotiate smoothed local acceptance of change. "It's a political and cultural process," he said. He paused, reflected, then added, "Can we always stop the Concorde from flying?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Dunkirk, France, a deal was negotiated to allow Studio 43, right, a 90-seat art house, to coexist with AMC's 20-screen, 4,010-seat multiplex movie theater, above, a $20 million project that opened in late November. (Photographs by Denis Charlet for The New York Times); (Photograph by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times; photo illustration by The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Entre Nous"
American movie theater operators are hoping the French will embrace multiplex theaters as wholeheartedly as they accepted American films last year.
 
UNITED STATES (GROSS* in millions)
 
Star Wars: Phantom Menace: $430.4
The Sixth Sense: 276.4
Toy Story 2: 208.8
Spy Who Shagged Me: 205.4
The Matrix: 171.4
Tarzan: 170.8
Big Daddy: 163.5
The Mummy: 155.2
Runaway Bride: 152.1
The Blair Witch Project: 140.5
 
FRANCE (GROSS* in millions)
 
Asterix & Obelix Versus Caesar: $59.2
Star Wars: Phantom Menace: 55.8
Tarzan: 31.3
The Matrix: 30.6
Notting Hill: 28.5
Mon Pere, Ma Mere: 23.0
Au Coeur du Mensonge: 19.8
Enemy of the State: 19.5
I Still Know What You Did . . .: 19.5
Wild, Wild West: 19.4
 
(Sources: ShowBIZ Data; Exhibitor Relations)(*Estimate of total box office sales) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (95%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: AMC ENTERTAINMENT; AMC EUROPE SA AMERICAN CO LLOID CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMC ENTERTAINMENT; AMC EUROPE SA

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; DUNKIRK (FRANCE); FRANCE; EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS); INDUSTRY PROFILES RETAILERS (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); CITIES (88%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); FILM HISTORY (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); SUBURBS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); HISTORIC SITES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN BRUNO FRYDMAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



669 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Ford Posts Higher Earnings, But Shares Still Take a Hit

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Jan. 26

 BODY:
A broad improvement in auto and financial operations allowed the Ford Motor Company to post slightly better earnings for the fourth quarter than financial analysts had expected, but the automaker's shares fell on fears that further profit gains might prove elusive.
Ford's profits surged in North America, despite a one-time, $103 million charge related to last autumn's labor contract with the United Automobile Workers, while the company's losses narrowed in Europe and South America. Ford Credit, the division for car loans and leases, posted a 32 percent gain in profits after several years of flat earnings. Among Ford's biggest units, only its auto parts division, Visteon, posted slightly worse results than a year earlier. 
 Altogether, Ford earned $1.81 billion, or $1.47 a share, up 73.2 percent from profits of $1.04 billion, or 84 cents a share, a year earlier. The earnings per share were 2 cents better than the consensus of analysts' forecasts issued by First Call/Thomson Financial.
Even excluding one-time charges in the last quarter and a year earlier, Ford's earnings were up 14 percent. Sales rose to $44.42 billion from $37.90 billion.
But with gasoline prices climbing and with the likelihood that the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates further, investors began selling Ford stock this morning even as other industrial stocks were rising. Ford shares fell $2.0625, to $48, while shares of the General Motors Corporation were up 62.5 cents, at $78.5625.
A few financial analysts said they were nervous that Ford's new chief financial officer, Henry D. G. Wallace, had seemed uncomfortable with their forecasts for first-quarter earnings this year during a conference call this morning. Mr. Wallace said in an interview that he had simply pointed out that it would be harder for Ford to meet analysts' forecasts for the first quarter than for all of 2000.
"The point I was making to them was their expectations grow week by week, and were getting pretty stretchy in the first quarter," he said, adding that by "stretchy" he meant challenging. It is unclear how much effect, if any, his comments to the analysts had on the stock, which dropped more than $1 at the opening of trading and slipped further through the day.
At a news conference here this morning, Mr. Wallace said that while Ford anticipates that auto sales will be a little slower than last year's record-setting pace, the automaker also hopes to increase its share of the North American market, using recently introduced or redesigned cars like the Ford Taurus, Lincoln LS and Jaguar S-Type. The automaker has based its planning on the assumption that the Fed will raise short-term interest rates this year, he said.
Ford is carefully examining the balance sheet of Daewoo, the virtually bankrupt Korean automaker, but has not yet made a decision on whether to invest in it, Mr. Wallace said. The growing Korean auto market remains virtually closed to imports while Korean manufacturers step up their exports, to the growing irritation of Western automakers. So companies like Ford, G.M. and Renault S.A. have been trying to buy Korean automakers.
Ford earned $7.24 billion for all of last year, or $5.86 a share, on sales of $162.56 billion. In 1998, Ford reported earnings of $22.07 billion, or $17.76 a share, but this included a noncash gain of $15.96 billion from Ford's spinoff of a consumer lending unit, Associates First Capital. Auto analysts have excluded that gain in their calculations of earnings.
There had been considerable speculation that Ford might announce today the closing of one or more factories in Europe and big layoffs there. While Ford did neither, Mr. Wallace acknowledged excess capacity in Europe and the possibility of cutbacks. While Ford earned $1.58 billion in the last quarter in North America, up from $1.05 billion, it lost $55 million in Europe, still better than a $74 million loss a year earlier.
Ford fared worst in South America, although losses narrowed in the fourth quarter to $95 million from $151 million a year earlier. Ford's sales in the region dropped 24.6 percent, as its market share dwindled in a weak overall market.
Visteon earned $95 million in the fourth quarter, down from $129 million a year earlier. Mr. Wallace said the new labor agreement and lower prices hurt the parts division, but repeated that Ford plans to make it an independent company. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); VC (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (66%); VISTEON CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (57%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; AUTOMOBILES COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



670 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: White House Memo;
Time Again for Clinton's Reinvention

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
President Clinton has used his seven State of the Union addresses to define and redefine himself in response to the shifting tenor of the times. In successive years he has been budget balancer and health care fixer, political penitent and moral preacher, master of the classroom and savior of Social Security.
As he rises from the well of the House to the rostrum on Thursday night, he will adopt yet another identity. What guise will he assume in this, his last, legacy-defining State of the Union address? 
 Mr. Clinton has used these set-piece speeches as mileposts of his political pilgrimage. It has been a patchwork progression, marked by a number of consistent themes and a few unexpected detours. The speeches have sought to reposition the president when external events like the Republican takeover of Congress in 1994 and the 1998 year of scandal have forced him to adapt to changing political realities.
In them, he has seized the high ground of principle while deftly delivering a partisan stiletto. He has made scores of promises only to come back a year later to blame his opponents for failing to deliver them. He has taken credit for Republican plans he bitterly fought. He has been bombastic and demagogic, exhausting and occasionally apologetic, and almost always highly effective.
In his first speech to a joint session of Congress, in 1993, he declared that government must do more and proposed $30 billion in new spending; three years later he proclaimed the end of the era of big government and demanded that Congress pass a balanced budget. In 1995, he said he had been humbled by the collapse of his health care plan and the public repudiation he received in the mid-term elections of 1994; a year later he gloried in his victory over Republicans in the budget battle that led to the closing of the federal government, even as he stole many of their small-government themes.
Woven through this seeming crazy quilt are the president's bedrock themes of opportunity, responsibility and community. The themes appeared in his presidential announcement speech in October 1991 and are certain to be a part of his remarks this week and in any farewell address he might give next January, aides said.
Advisers say the State of the Union is the president's most cherished public ritual. For an hour or more, Mr. Clinton commands a national television audience and dominates the House chamber, literally and figuratively, looking down upon the assemblage of lawmakers, judges, generals and diplomats.
"This is his favorite time of year," said Michael Waldman, the president's former chief speechwriter who is writing a book about his White House experiences. "He loves the policy, he loves the rewriting and rewriting, the politics and the polling and the showmanship."
It is something of an oddity that Mr. Clinton each year has delivered this address in the midst of some event that has transfixed the nation or transformed his presidency.
In 1994, the speech came the same month he was forced to approve the appointment of an independent counsel to investigate the matters known together as Whitewater. In 1995, Mr. Clinton was driven to defend his relevance as he faced a hostile new Republican Congress. Two years later, he returned in triumph after winning an overwhelming re-election victory over Bob Dole -- but had to compete for the attention of viewers with the verdict in the O. J. Simpson civil trial. In 1998, he delivered the State of the Union barely 24 hours after pronouncing one of the most memorable sentences in American politics: "I did not have sexual relations with that woman, Ms. Lewinsky." Last year, he spoke in the middle of his Senate impeachment trial.
In each instance, he has been able to capture the public's attention and, when necessary, remake himself to meet expectations. After his legislative and electoral losses of 1994, he refashioned himself from prime minister responsible for passing laws to the head of state straddling the two parties and standing above them at the apex of a political triangle. In 1998, in a very real sense, he saved his presidency by persuading the public that the Lewinsky matter was a temporary distraction from the economic and social progress the nation was making under his stewardship.
"I think what we've seen is an incredibly adaptable politician conforming to the political necessities of the time," said Ross K. Baker, professor of political science at Rutgers University.
Mr. Clinton has understood the value of the formal address to Congress from the beginning. Although he did not give a formal State of the Union speech in his first year, he did address a joint session of Congress in February 1993.
The speech was a result of a chaotic drafting process and was still being rewritten as the president went to the Capitol to deliver it. Mr. Clinton proposed nearly $500 billion in taxes and spending cuts to reverse growing federal deficits, but insisted on including new spending on children, worker training, technology and infrastructure to prepare the country for the digital economy.
The 1994 speech was memorable for Mr. Clinton's pen-waving vow to veto any health care plan that did not provide coverage for all Americans.
A year later, a sheepish Mr. Clinton acknowledged that he and Hillary Rodham Clinton "bit off more than we could chew" and proposed modest steps to remake the health care system.
The 1996 speech was a model of the "third way" approach to governing that Mr. Clinton has advocated since the Republican victories in 1994. He declared "the era of big government is over" and adopted Republican language on making government smaller and more efficient.
There were few expensive new policy proposals and a heavy emphasis on promoting family values and cleansing popular entertainment of sex and violence.
"That speech put him in a commanding position to win the 1996 election," Mr. Waldman said. "It set a pattern he's followed ever since."
Mr. Clinton used the 1997 speech to review the highlights of his first term and to declare education to be the overriding priority of his second. While Mr. Clinton has pursued several education initiatives -- smaller class sizes, construction programs, national standards -- Congress has been stingy in paying for them and his attention has wandered.
The 1998 and 1999 speeches were memorable more for their context than their content. On a blustery day in January 1998, the nation held its breath, wondering whether Mr. Clinton would survive the revelations of an affair with a White House aide.
Mr. Clinton strode to the front of the House chamber and declared that the state of the union -- and, by implication, his own -- was strong. He never once mentioned the scandal and left his audience marveling at his resilience.
"Clinton uses the State of the Union better than many of his predecessors," said Douglas Brinkley, a presidential scholar at the University of New Orleans. "I have no doubt this speech will be a great success, like most of the others. He's such a great orator. Every time you see one of these speeches, you shake your head and say, 'He could have been a great president.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "VERBATIM: 7 Speeches, Shifting Tenor"
Some goals that President Clinton has set out in past State of the Union addresses:
 
1993*: "Tonight I want to talk with you about what government can do, because I believe government must do more."
 
1994: "If you send me legislation that does not guarantee every American private health insurance that can never be taken away, you will force me to take this pen, veto the legislation, and we'll come right back here and start all over again."
 
1995: "So let this be the year we end welfare as we know it. But also let this be the year that we are all able to stop using this issue to divide America."
 
1996: "I say again: The era of big government is over. But we can't go back to the era of fending for yourself."
 
1997: "Now, looking ahead, the greatest step of all, the high threshold to the future we must now cross, and my No. 1 priority for the next four years, is to ensure that all Americans have the best education in the world."
 
1998: "Now, if we balance the budget for next year, it is projected that we'll then have a sizable surplus in the years that immediately follow. What should we do with this projected surplus? I have a simple four-word answer: Save Social Security first."
 
1999: "Our fiscal discipline gives us an unsurpassed opportunity to address a remarkable new challenge: the aging of America."
 
*Address to a joint session of Congress, Feb. 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (74%); QUILTS & QUILTING (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



671 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Conflicting Forces Roil Treasury Market

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Yields on short-term Treasury notes rose in the bond market yesterday, while the yields on the 10-year note and the 30-year bond fell, leaving some short-term yields higher than long-term yields.
The rise in short-term yields, which came as Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve testified at his Senate hearing for re-confirmation as Fed chairman, reflects the belief that the Fed will raise short-term interest rates to slow growth and restrain inflation. The first increase is expected when Fed policy makers meet on Tuesday. 
 At the same time, the fall in longer-term yields seems to reflect confidence about the outlook for inflation in the years ahead because investors expect the central bank to act to rein price increases.
These conflicting forces are creating oddities in the Treasury market. For example, the yield on the five-year note, which rose to 6.59 percent yesterday, was above the 6.57 percent yield on the 30-year bond, which fell from 6.63 on Tuesday. The price of the 30-year bond, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 22/32 to 946/32 . The yield on the two-year note auctioned yesterday was 6.43 percent, not far below the yield on the 30-year bond.
Longer-term rates are normally higher than shorter term rates because of the risk of rising inflation in the future. But this type of interest rate inversion is common when the Fed is trying to slow the economy by raising its short-term interest rate target, the federal funds rate.
The decline in issuance of new Treasury notes and bonds by the Treasury and the plan to buy back existing Treasury debt -- all because of the growing federal budget surplus -- are also affecting Treasury yields. The yield on the 10-year note slipped yesterday to 6.66 percent from 6.68 percent Tuesday, but is still well above the 6.57 percent yield on the 30-year bond. This is because investors are paying a premium for 30-year bonds because there are fewer such long-term maturities available now.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Price: 99.891
High Yield: 6.434%
Low Yield: 6.350%
Median Yield: 6.417%
Accepted at low price: 28%
Total applied for: $33,731,087
Accepted: $19,346,847
Noncompetitive: $1,599,522
Interest set at: 6 3/8
 
The two-year notes mature Jan. 31, 2002.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since October 1999. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522294 SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (90%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP FREDDIE MAC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (94%); BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



672 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Holds Forth Before a Friendly Panel

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
Holding forth on subjects including the stock market, immigration, the budget surplus and his own pay, Alan Greenspan went before the Senate Banking Committee today seeking the panel's recommendation for a fourth term as chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Members of both parties heaped praise on Mr. Greenspan, 73, and predicted that his nomination would sail through the committee and be promptly confirmed by the full Senate, perhaps as soon as next week. 
 "If you were forced to narrow down the credit for the golden age that we find ourselves living in," said Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas and the committee's chairman, "I think there are many people who would be due credit, and there are more who would claim credit. But of those who are in a position of authority, I think your name would have to be at the top of the list."
Mr. Greenspan, in his prepared testimony, provided no insights into his thinking about the strength of the economy as the Fed prepares for a monetary policy meeting next week at which it is expected to raise interest rates.
But in response to a question from Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, Mr. Greenspan suggested that he remained concerned about the possibility of a speculative bubble in the stock market. Asked if he was troubled by a surge in investors' purchases of stock on margin -- with money borrowed from brokers -- the Fed chief said that he was, and that the Fed was studying how best to respond, especially after a sharp upturn in margin buying late last year.
"It is certainly the case that the numbers that you cite, especially for November and December, have caught our attention," Mr. Greenspan said. "They have moved up at a pace which has created a good deal of evaluation on our part and, obviously, the supervisory regulators."
But he said the central bank had no plans to raise margin requirements, a step that he said would have little effect. Instead, he said, the Fed is studying other ways of responding to the increasingly leveraged positions of some investors, although he did not specify what they might be.
"We, obviously, have also been discussing what alternatives there are," Mr. Greenspan said. "And you have to be careful. It's very easy to invent all sorts of new schemes that allegedly are going to do something and, when put into practice, turn out to be less than perfect.
"I don't want to suggest that we're about to do anything at this stage," Mr. Greenspan added, "but I would confirm that we obviously are doing a good deal of thinking about the whole process."
Asked whether increased immigration would help the labor shortage affecting some industries, Mr. Greenspan said that it could. The current unemployment rate is 4.1 percent, the lowest in 30 years, and tight labor markets are one of the Fed's main concerns as it assesses the possibility of increased inflation.
"Demand is putting very significant pressures on an ever-decreasing available supply of unemployed labor," Mr. Greenspan said. "The one obvious means that one can use to offset that is expanding the number of people we allow in, either generally or in specifically focused areas. And I do think that an appraisal of our immigration policies in this regard is really clearly on the table."
He repeated his frequent calls for Congress to avoid spending binges, especially in light of new surplus estimates from the Congressional Budget Office suggesting that legislators from the two parties could have as much as $1.9 trillion in excess revenue over the next decade.
Closer to home, Mr. Greenspan said when asked that he did not need a raise in his $140,000-a-year salary because he had already become wealthy before he took up his post in 1987. But he said that some Fed governors over the years had left the central bank because they needed to make more money, and that it would be a shame if the bank could not attract and retain the brightest people because of salary levels.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, at a Senate Banking Committee hearing yesterday. He gave little clue of his views now on interest rates but conceded concern about an increase in margin stock purchases. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); TESTIMONY (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); BONDS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); LABOR SHORTAGES (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



673 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: John Hancock Sells Stock In a $1.7 Billion Conversion

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
John Hancock Financial Services, the 15th-largest life insurer in the United States, raised $1.734 billion in an initial sale of stock that was priced yesterday.
The sale of 102 million shares at $17 each ended 137 years of ownership of the John Hancock Mutual Insurance Company by its policyholders. Several other mutual companies, including Metropolitan Life, are expected to convert to shareholder-owned companies and sell stock in the coming months. 
 The John Hancock stock offering was by far the biggest initial public offering so far this year, but fell well short of the record $5.47 billion raised by United Parcel Service in its first sale of stock in November, according to Randall Roth of Renaissance Capital in Greenwich, Conn.
John Hancock also distributed 229.7 million shares of stock to policyholders in exchange for their ownership of the company.
A dispute concerning as much as 4 percent of the policyholders' shares threatened to interfere with the offering. But John Hancock and New York state regulators finally agreed that the shares would be held in trust until resolution of a suit brought by the Mutual of America Life Insurance Company, a New York annuities and pension-plan company that owns Hancock policies.
John Hancock indicated in securities documents that it initially hoped to sell its stock for as much as $25 a share, but earlier this month set a price range of $16 to $18.
Analysts said the price of the Hancock stock was kept down by a generally depressed market for insurance and bank stocks, partly because of rising interest rates, which tend to reduce the profits of financial services companies. While the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has risen nearly 15 percent since the start of 1999, insurance stocks have lost 28 percent of their market value.
Some potential investors saw the low price as an incentive to buy, but others said they were more likely to see greater growth in other areas of the market. Still others said they feared that at least for the next year or so, the prices of insurance stocks might be driven down further as the other mutual companies flood the market with new shares.
"Our concern is that there is going to be a period of indigestion," said Lannie Thorndike, a manager of the Century Shares Trust, a mutual fund in Boston that invests in life insurance and banking shares.
John Hancock has been trimming its operations for greater efficiency and Larry Altman, an insurance specialist at Booz, Allen & Hamilton, the consulting firm, said the company "is better equipped" than other converting mutual insurers for the intensifying competition.
Still, said Larry Mayewski, a senior analyst at A. M. Best, John Hancock may face a tough sell. "As an investor looking at insurance stocks in general," he said, "you have to ask yourself, 'Is there something about this company that makes it a better bet?' This is a tough market to enter." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (57%); BAH (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (98%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES; JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (98%); MUTUAL OF AMERICA LIFE INSURANCE CO (68%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES; JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES LIFE INSURANCE (92%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



674 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Word of All the Layoffs Comes as Shock toAtlanta

BYLINE: By ANNE BERRYMAN 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 26

 BODY:
The mood at Coca-Cola headquarters was somber today, according to several employees leaving the company's gated compound here, and the reverberations of the job cuts were being discussed throughout the city.
Many employees would not speak on the record to a dozen reporters waiting outside the gates this afternoon. "I still have a job and I want to keep it," one man said as he rushed past the group. 
 Another took a more upbeat view. "It's an exciting day," said Tim Jacobi, a 32-year-old marketing manager. "We're slimming down."
Mr. Jacobi, who said he had not yet heard whether his job would survive, said: "I'm young. If they lay me off, I'll move on." But he added: "For a lot of people who are being laid off, it's a terrible day. You never know."
One woman, who also insisted on anonymity, wiped a tear from her face as she left the office. "These are people's lives," she said.
"This is a shock," said Donald Ratajczak, director of the Georgia Economic Forecasting Center at Georgia State University in Atlanta. But he added, "It's more the psychological rather than the economic impact, which shouldn't be that large."
"We're talking about 2,500 jobs. The state made 155,000 new jobs this year. Even though they're higher-paid jobs, it won't be difficult for the state to absorb the loss," he said.
The most difficulty, he said, may come for the middle management workers.
"We don't have a lot of management structures like Coke," he said. "There aren't a lot of obvious openings in other parts of the Atlanta area for them."
Coke has recently faced a racial discrimination lawsuit by a group of black employees, and, no doubt concerned about its image on racial matters, recently managed to retain its top-ranking black executive, Carl H. Ware, after offering him a newly created position. As for the layoffs, "We are going to monitor this carefully," said Cyrus Mehri, a lawyer for eight employees involved in the lawsuit.
The cuts, which Coke called a "realignment," will slash jobs through early retirement, outsourcing and layoffs. Jobs to be outsourced include those in information system support, payroll, and compensation and benefits delivery, said Ben Deutsch, a company spokesman.
Some employees were first told this morning in individual meetings whether their jobs would be cut, and others will hear later of their fates in the meetings that are expected to continue through mid-February.
"Most people will know where they stand by the middle of February," Mr. Deutsch said.
The concern about lost jobs went beyond individuals to the community of Atlanta, especially the city's arts and educational institutions, which have benefited from the charity of the company and its workers.
When asked if he thought the layoffs could hurt those institutions, Shelton Stanfill, president of the city's Woodruff Arts Center, home to the Atlanta Symphony, the High Museum of Art, the Alliance Theater Company and the Atlanta College of Art, said: "At this time I don't expect that it will. But that certainly is not beyond the realm of possibility. My guess is that it will not."
Coca-Cola, which is also the main sponsor of the Super Bowl festivities in Atlanta this week, is the city's second-largest corporate donor, giving $481,903 in 1999, behind BellSouth, at $742,431, Mr. Stanfill said.
The company's leadership in donating through the years "has just been enormous," he said. Not only the arts community, but Emory University and Agnes Scott College have benefited from the company's largesse, he noted.
When asked if the company's charities would be affected, Mr. Deutsch said, "I don't think what has happened today will have anything to do with how we view our commitment to our community here in Atlanta and communities all over the world where we operate."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Worry was the dominant mood as workers left Coca-Cola headquarters in Atlanta yesterday. But Tim Jacobi, a 32-year-old marketing manager, said he thought he could find another job if he was laid off. (Chris Stanford/Sipa for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (58%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); OUTSOURCING (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); LITIGATION (85%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); RACE & RACISM (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); 

PERSON: BERRYMAN, ANNE BEN DEUTSCH (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



675 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Freed Puerto Rican Militants Revel in Life on the Outside

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R.

 BODY:
Luis Rosa had never seen El Yunque, Puerto Rico's renowned rain forest. He had never tasted a seafood stew like the one he ate the other day or tried many of the tropical fruits people here pick from their backyard trees.
Mr. Rosa, who was born and reared in Chicago, is only now getting to know the country in whose name he took up a life of political violence as a teenager and for which he spent more than 19 years in a federal prison. 
 One of the Puerto Rican radical nationalists granted clemency by President Clinton last September in a firestorm of controversy, Mr. Rosa, 39, said he had spent much of his four months of freedom bursting into tears -- at the sight of El Yunque, hearing Puerto Rican string music, gazing at a landscape.
"It's been a real emotional experience," Mr. Rosa said. "Everything that you fought for and dedicated yourself to, you see. It's alive. It's tangible."
The 11 Puerto Rican prisoners released last year -- 5 women and 6 men -- have spent most of their time catching up with life. Some have gone to cemeteries to visit for the first time the graves of parents. Others are getting reacquainted with their children and meeting new nephews and grandchildren.
But the nine of them who decided to live in Puerto Rico -- two chose to live in Chicago -- have also experienced a "homecoming" in a country that for most of them -- whose roots were in New York and Illinois -- was until now more a cause than home. The 11 were linked to a militant group that sought independence for Puerto Rico, an American commonwealth with limited self-governing powers.
And while what they still call their armed struggle against the United States is widely condemned on this island of 3.8 million residents, many Puerto Ricans have welcomed them, some as patriots, but most as people who have been punished and deserve a second chance.
"They should not be stigmatized," said Dorlizca Irizarry, 60, who unexpectedly found eight of the former prisoners at Mass recently as guests of the Archbishop of San Juan, Roberto Gonzalez. "They should be supported so they don't fall again."
The 11 received sentences of 35 to 90 years after convictions in the early 1980's for seditious conspiracy and other charges in the plotting of bomb attacks and armed robberies to finance violent activities against the United States government.
While none were convicted of any crimes that resulted in death or injury, the 11 were accused of belonging to the Armed Forces for National Liberation, known by the Spanish initials F.A.L.N., a group that waged an armed campaign in the 1970's and 1980's to end what it saw as Puerto Rico's colonial status. Federal law-enforcement officials tied the group to more than 100 bombings in the United States and at least six deaths.
For those like Mr. Rosa, the passion for Puerto Rico developed in the neighborhoods and households of Chicago and New York City where Spanish was spoken and Puerto Rican culture nurtured. In separate interviews, Mr. Rosa and five of the other former prisoners said their political commitment had been infused by personal experiences with segregation and discrimination in the United States, and the conclusion that Puerto Rico's economic problems and the need of Puerto Ricans to migrate north stemmed from the island's status as an American possession.
"We identified the situation in Puerto Rico as the root of the problems of Puerto Ricans in the states," said Carmen Valentin, 53, a former assistant school principal in Chicago who was arrested with several of the others in a stolen van in Evanston, Ill., in 1980.
The nationalists said an armed movement seemed a logical way to advance the cause of independence in the wake of the civil rights movement and with revolutions brewing in Latin America. The view that violence was a legitimate weapon, the nationalists and other independence supporters noted, also sprang up in response to the Puerto Rican government's repression of independence efforts on the island.
This pattern of harassment was acknowledged recently when Gov. Pedro J. Rossello, of the pro-statehood New Progressive Party, publicly apologized and offered restitution of up to $6,000 each to thousands of Puerto Rican "independentistas" and others who were spied on as "subversives" by a police intelligence unit starting in the late 1940's.
Mr. Rosa, who at the time of his arrest in 1980 was a college student, said he saw violent action as a necessary propaganda tool to draw world attention to Puerto Rico. "It was louder than a march," he said.
But in the eyes of federal law-enforcement officials, victims of F.A.L.N. bombings and critics in the United States and Puerto Rico, the nationalists were nothing more than terrorists.
In granting clemency, President Clinton said he considered humanitarian factors like the severity of the sentences. (Insisting they were prisoners of war, most of the nationalists did not present a defense at their trials.) But the offer set off fierce criticism that Mr. Clinton risked reinvigorating the Puerto Rican clandestine independence movement, and speculation that the president was trying to help Hillary Rodham Clinton's Senate campaign in New York, which has a large Puerto Rican population.
Critics were also found in Puerto Rico, where independence remains the choice of less than 5 percent of the voters in referendums. Most residents are divided between maintaining the commonwealth and seeking statehood.
"The basic crime they committed was to try to impose their aspirations for Puerto Rico on the people of Puerto Rico against their will," said former Gov. Carlos Romero Barcelo, the island's resident commissioner in Washington and a statehood proponent who opposed their release.
But many more Puerto Ricans seem to have found extenuating circumstances. Rigoberto Diaz Jr., 41, a banker here who also supports statehood, said he found the sentences too harsh compared with those for crimes like murder, and attributed the punishment to prejudice against Puerto Ricans in the states.
El Nuevo Dia, Puerto Rico's largest daily newspaper, refers to the group as "ex-political prisoners."
"The crime of sedition they were imprisoned for is superarchaic," Mr. Diaz said. "How can a few people overthrow the government of the United States? They conspired, but the K.K.K. and the white supremacists have done worse."
While Puerto Rico remains a commonwealth, the 11 nationalists remain fervently committed to independence.
"What justifies the struggle for independence is not its popularity but whether you're right or not," said Elizam Escobar, 51, who was born in Puerto Rico and left at 23 for New York City, where he lived when arrested. "For self-respect, we should take our destiny in our own hands."
But bombings are not an option. The 11 were required to renounce violence to be released.
The nationalists noted that there had been a surge of nationalism in Puerto Rico, more tolerance of independence sympathizers and new-found unity among the three major political parties for asserting Puerto Rican rights in the case of the United States Navy's presence in Vieques, a nearby island the Navy uses for target practice.
All that can be channeled peacefully toward a final determination on the island's political status, some of the nationalists said.
"I don't think there's support for the commonwealth as it is and there's no support in the United States Congress for statehood either," said Edwin Cortes, 44, a former claim adjuster who was arrested in 1983. "Puerto Ricans are waking up to that reality."
Under the conditions of their release, the former prisoners may not associate with one another. Only the two sisters in the group, Alicia, 46, and Ida Luz Rodriguez, 49, have been allowed to live together. They declined a request for an interview.
Some of the nationalists, most of whom are still living with relatives or friends, have adjusted better than others. Some, like Ms. Valentin, are still looking for jobs. Others, like Mr. Rosa, who earned his bachelor's degree in prison, and Ricardo Jimenez, 43, have enrolled in the University of Puerto Rico.
Mr. Escobar, a painter, and Adolfo Matos, 49, an artisan, are teaching. Mr. Cortes is a clerk in a doctor's office, and Dylcia Pagan, 53, a television producer and one of two New Yorkers in the group, is planning a documentary about her first year back in Puerto Rico and learning how to drive.
All insisted there were no regrets.
"To me it was well worth it," said Ms. Pagan, whose only son, now 21, was reared by a family in Mexico. "We've been examples of people committed to struggle. If you believe in something that much, you're prepared to suffer the consequences."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many of the nine revolutionaries who chose to live on Puerto Rico are getting to know the island for the first time. None expressed regret about taking up a life of violence for their cause. Luis Rosa, top, is finding life a very emotional experience. Carmen Valentin, above, is among those still looking for jobs. Elizam Escobar, left, is teaching. (Photographs by Laura Magruder for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4424 COASTAL FREIGHT (85%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PUERTO RICAN AMERICAN INSURANCE CO (92%); PUERTO RICAN INSURANCE AGENCY INC (92%); PUERTO RICAN DRYPERS CORP (92%); PUERTO RICAN CEMENT CO INC (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (85%); PUERTO RICO CONTAINER CO (85%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (85%); PUERTO RICO SUN OIL CO (85%); PUERTO RICO SAFETY EQUIPMENT CORP (85%); PUERTO RICO TELEPHONE CO (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO; PUERTO RICO (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PARDONS; TERRORISM; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION SEPARATISM & SECESSION (86%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); PARDONS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); ROBBERY (71%); TERRORISM (71%); PRISONS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); CONSPIRACY (68%); CEMETERIES (66%); BOMBINGS (63%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (54%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROSA, LUIS; VALENTIN, CARMEN; ESCOBAR, ELIZAM BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



676 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani to Seek Reduction In City Income Tax Rate

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani will propose a 16 percent reduction in the municipal income tax rate when he releases his new budget plan today, two of his senior advisers said late yesterday. The reduction would mean a saving of about $132 for an individual earning $40,000 a year.
The cut in the personal income tax rate is the single largest component of what Mr. Giuliani is calling a $2 billion tax reduction plan, but it would not take effect until January 2002, after the mayor leaves office. 
 Mr. Giuliani's advisers would not say yesterday how the mayor intended to cut $2 billion in taxes without sending the city into debt. His own budget staff estimated late last year that the city was at risk of a $1.95 billion budget deficit in the 2002 fiscal year, even before the mayor offered additional tax cut plans.
City Council officials suggested late yesterday that Mr. Giuliani's enthusiasm for tax cuts was inspired by his undeclared bid for the United States Senate. They also questioned whether it was responsible for the mayor to advocate tax cuts that would not take effect until after his term ended.
"It is a big win for a candidate for the U.S. Senate to offer this kind of tax cut in an election year,"said Carolyn Daly, a spokeswoman for the City Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone. "But you have to look at what the deficit is going to be and if we can afford it."
The mayor's staff rejected charges that Mr. Giuliani was playing politics, noting that since he came into office in 1994 he had consistently proposed budgets that included cuts in taxes, increases in spending for worthwhile programs, and strategies to eliminate any possible deficits.
"The budget is prudent in all respects, even with these $2 billion worth of tax cuts," one of the mayor's advisers said, adding that Mr. Giuliani would offer a budget plan that covered the next four fiscal years.
The robust city economy -- which helped generate a $2.6 billion surplus in the 1999 fiscal year -- has given Mr. Giuliani increased flexibility in his recent budgets. But there are several open questions facing the city that could make balancing the budget this year more challenging. Contracts with unions representing more than 150,000 city workers are expiring, and even if wage increases do not exceed the rate of inflation, it will cost the city $360 million in 2001 and $1.2 billion in 2003. The mayor will also be under pressure to increase spending on the Board of Education, which has been reducing grade-school class sizes and moving to expand kindergarten programs.
But ultimately, the budget debate this year, which formally starts with the release of the mayor's spending plan, may turn into a contest over dueling tax cut plans. Mr. Vallone, who is considering a bid for mayor, has already proposed his own tax cut agenda.
Mr. Vallone's proposal differs from what the mayor has disclosed to date, in that the Council speaker is putting the emphasis on immediate tax cuts, including extension of the city's earned-income tax credit for 600,000 households whose income is less than $30,000 a year, elimination of a mortgage recording tax for first-time homebuyers, and provision of a tax cut for senior citizens who rent out apartments.
Bruce R. Bender, Mr. Vallone's chief of staff, said that if Mr. Giuliani was so intent on reducing the municipal income tax, he should do it immediately instead of waiting until 2002.
Mr. Giuliani is advocating waiting because the cut in the personal income tax rate would automatically be accomplished in December 2001 when a tax increase imposed in 1991 expires.
The mayor's municipal income tax rate cut, costing the city government $784 million in 2002, would come on top of a reduction that took effect last year, at the initiative of the City Council. Collectively, the two cuts -- and a third approved by the state -- would mean that an individual earning $40,000 a year would see a $393 tax cut. For joint filers with two dependents earning $100,000 a year, the cumulative municipal income tax cuts would result in a saving of $1,089.
The actual personal income tax rate would go down to 3.2 percent under Mr. Giuliani's plan, compared with the current 3.8 percent rate, and the 4.46 percent rate before the previously approved cuts. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); POLITICS (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); INFLATION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (60%); 

PERSON: LIPTON, ERIC; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



677 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Austin Journal;
Seeking High-Tech Input to Stop a Silicon Valley 2

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Jan. 26

 BODY:
Like so many of his fellow dot.com millionaires in this Texas city often ranked as one of the country's best places to live, Peter Zandan regards Silicon Valley in Northern California as a nightmare of overpriced houses, horrific traffic and bad planning.
Yet as those same problems press upon Austin, a city known for its live music, Mr. Zandan and other executives in the high-tech industry are pondering a pointed question: How do we save Austin from ourselves? 
 "I would hate to see Austin become another Silicon Valley," Mr. Zandan said.
So today, Mr. Zandan, chairman of the Internet company, Zilliant and founder of IntelliQuest, and another local entrepreneur, Steve Papermaster of Agillion, sponsored a gathering of 300 local "new economy" executives not only to discuss the future of the high-tech industry in Austin but to begin addressing problems plaguing the city: traffic and sprawl, inflated housing costs, environmental strains and a growing divide between the rich and the poor.
They had these facts: Austin saw the creation of 32,000 jobs last year for a growth rate of 5.3 percent, the highest of any metropolitan area in Texas. The cost of housing has risen 71 percent since 1990. Motorists now spend an estimated 53 hours a year stuck in traffic. The infrastructure has become so taxed that the largest employer, Dell Computers, which has 27,500 workers in Central Texas, recently had to expand in Nashville rather than here.
In a way, the gathering and a televised "town meeting" on Tuesday night was part of a courting ritual between the technology industry and a larger Austin. During a question-and-answer session today, one executive told the mayor of Austin, Kirk Watson, that, in essence, it was industry's job to create wealth and government's job to deal with the incumbent problems.
"If you say to me that it is in the government's court," Mr. Watson said, "Folks, government can't take care of all the problems."
Last year, Mr. Zandan and Mr. Papermaster had organized the inaugural conference, 360.Alpha Summit, after realizing that local high-tech leaders were disconnected from one another as well as the community.
The purpose, Mr. Zandan said, was "to stir things up," and it apparently worked. When Larry R. Faulkner, president of University of Texas, responded to criticism by commenting that the university would be around a lot longer than the denizens of the technology age, he was pelted by plastic golf balls, which had been handed out to participants.
This year, the golf balls were back, but the tone for the meeting, 360.00 Summit, seemed less confrontational, perhaps in response to the growing public frustration with quality of life issues. Executives watched a video in which a teacher described her difficulty in finding an affordable place to live. They listened to motorists complain about numbing traffic delays. At the town meeting, civic leaders made it clear that the companies, as much as government, must do something to improve the quality of life. One man asked if companies would agree to a minimum $9 an hour wage, noting that many residents lived on $350 a week. A minister asked what companies would do to narrow the "digital divide" and wire the Internet into classrooms for minority students.
"If we had a silver bullet," said Tom Meredith, chief financial officer of the area's largest employer, Dell Computer, and one of the more active high-tech executives in civic affairs "we'd have already found it."
Instead, Mr. Zandan announced a new Austin Network, connecting regional technology leaders with civic and governmental officials. What he hopes, as do others, is that the same decision making and creativity that have fueled the technology boom can be applied to solving the larger community problems.
Ultimately, the high-minded intentions of the conference will seem like little more than a hollow public relations exercise if nothing happens. Mr. Meredith, for one, talked about the need for improving public schools and building light rail, the latter of which is expected to come before voters later this year.
And in the spirit of the technology age, he boiled down what needs to be done to one word: Action. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ZILLIANT (CO) ZILLIANT INC (57%); DELL INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZILLIANT (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN (TEX); UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET RANKINGS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); MAYORS (69%); JOB CREATION (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (60%); 

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM; ZANDAN, PETER; PAPERMASTER, STEVE ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



678 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Bitter Indians Let Ecuador Know Fight Isn't Over

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: LATACUNGA, Ecuador, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Last week, the Indians marched by the thousands from this Andean market town to overthrow the government in Quito. This week, with a new president in place but all their other demands unmet, those same protesters have been drifting back to the farms here, feeling defeated, angry and bitter and warning of the fire next time.
"We were betrayed by a treacherous clique of generals and admirals," Antonio Vargas, president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, the country's principal Indian group, said after the rapid collapse during the weekend of the three-man military-led junta of which he was also a member. "But our struggle is not over, and we may have to be even tougher when we mobilize again." 
 To this country's largely white and Spanish-speaking elite, those are powerful and disturbing words. Though the Indians here constitute about one-third of the country's 12.5 million people, they have been treated as second-class citizens, deprived of economic and educational opportunities, with their languages and culture ridiculed, for even longer than Ecuador has been a nation.
Raul Lopez, the Roman Catholic bishop in this commercial center at the foot of the towering Cotopaxi volcano, points out that not too long ago newspaper advertisements "offered haciendas for sale with Indians included, as if they were cattle or horses." But in recent years, with financial support and advice from groups in Western Europe and North America, indigneous peoples have coalesced around demands for what they call "a plurinational and multi-ethnic state" here.
Though last week's uprising was the largest and most dramatic and ambitious that Ecuadorean Indians have ever staged, it was by no means their first. Such protests have been an effective and favorite tactic of the increasingly better organized indigenous movement since 1990, when what began as a civil rights protest soon took on broader political dimensions.
"We were tired of bus drivers insulting indigenous passengers, refusing to allow them to board or telling them to take off their hats," said Cesar Umajinga, president of the Cotopaxi Indigenous and Peasant Movement, the leading Indian group here. "After several of our people died from being thrown off buses, we decided it was time to demand respect and an end to such abuses."
At a news conference with foreign reporters on Monday, Gustavo Noboa, the new president, who took power on Saturday after the collapse of the Indian-military junta, acknowledged past injustices to indigenous peoples. He promised a "dialogue" with Indian groups and expressed sympathy for many of their goals.
"The indigenous theme is longstanding and hereditary, the result of a lack of confidence," he said. "The fact is that they have been deceived for centuries and their demands are right in part."
Indians rose up last week, he said, because governments "have not kept their word" after making promises to and signing agreements with indigenous leaders like Mr. Vargas.
Other nations throughout the Andes, as well as Central America and Mexico, must also contend with restive Indian populations demanding social equality and economic opportunity. But experts on the region say that the situation here is probably worse than elsewhere precisely because of government neglect.
"Ecuador is a country that has basically forgotten about its agricultural and rural base, so conditions in the countryside have deteriorated in the last decade," said Eduardo Gamarra, director of the Latin American and Caribbean Center at Florida International University in Miami. The resulting "process of pauperization in the countryside," he added, "marginalizes indigenous people almost by definition" because of their strong links to the land.
That trend has only been accentuated by an economic crisis worse than any other this country has faced in 70 years. Inflation, at 60 percent for each of the past two years, is the highest in Latin America, the government defaulted on half its $13 billion in foreign debt four months ago, and the country's currency, the sucre, lost 67 percent of its value against the dollar in 1999 and 20 percent this month.
"The price of seed, fertilizer and insecticide is tied to the exchange rate of the dollar and has risen so high that some of us can no longer afford to plant our crops," complained Gregorio Chiguano, a 54-year-old farmer here who took part in the march on the capital last week. "But we get paid in sucres for the potatoes and other products that we grow, and so we are suffering terrible deprivation."
In an effort to address inequities, Ecuadorean governments have carried out agrarian reform programs since the 1960's. But Indians have not only ended up with most of the least fertile plots of land, many of which have now been divided up as a result of population growth to the point they are barely productive, but have also received little in the way of credit and technical help from the government.
In addition, Indian leaders from the countryside who were here today to sell their wares at a weekly market all complained that their villages were the last to receive electricity, water, telephones and sewers. Struggling to fulfill the austerity measures they have had to agree to in order to secure loans abroad, successive administrations have also reduced support for bilingual education programs for speakers of Quechua and other Indian languages.
"The situation is truly tragic," Bishop Lopez said. "The government has cut the budget for everything in the social sector in order to satisfy the demands of the International Monetary Fund and to make payments on our foreign debt."
The government's decision this month to make the American dollar the country's new currency has further fed the discontent. Indian farmers here are vehemently opposed, seeing the measure as just another scheme by bankers and businessmen to further impoverish them.
"The dollar may be fine for mestizos and the big folks, but we are peasants and do not know how to manage dollars," said Apolinario Quishpe, 51, a farmer who was another of those who made the 55-mile march on Quito. "Many of us do not know how to read and write and do not understand what this is about. We feel cheated."
Indian leaders and their supporters emphasize that their uprisings and campaigns of civil disobedience also reflect frustration with the nature of the political process here. Though candidates on the right as well as the left say they are concerned about advancing Indian interests and rights, no Indian has ever held a cabinet post, they complained, and until very recently few had been elected to Congress.
"One thing about Ecuador that has always struck me is that the Indians are not treated very well by white society," Dr. Gamarra said. "Political parties spend very little effort to work with them, and whatever representation occurs is usually done in a very patrimonial way. They don't really have a voice or a party of their own."
Indian leaders here say that their unexpected alliance with the military, though temporarily unsuccessful, has gained them new respect as a political force. But Bishop Lopez argues that last week's coup and its chaotic aftermath are better seen as a setback for the indigenous cause.
"By trying to achieve an unreachable utopia, they have deeply angered and frightened the Ecuadorean population, which had been sympathetic to many of their demands," he said. "They broke with the rules of the Constitution, and that has cost them a lot of support."
The Indigenous Parliament that represents the country's Indian peoples is to meet here this week to try to draw lessons from the failed uprising, devise a new strategy and prepare an agenda for the next round of negotiations with the government, scheduled to begin next week. But Mr. Umajinga warned that "we are tired of being marginalized and treated as orphans by the government" and said the day might soon come when the talking would have to end.
"This was not an armed uprising, and that may have been a mistake that will have to rectified in the future," he said. "We do not even have weapons, and this is not the time to take up arms. But I want to tell you clearly and emphatically that if this system is not changed in the next five years, then you are going to see our people take up arms."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: After days of political turmoil in Quito, Ecuador, businesses have reopened and the city appears to have returned to normal. An Indian woman walked past a police armored vehicle near the presidential palace. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ANDES (73%); 

CITY: QUITO, ECUADOR (88%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (50%); COTOPAXI INDIGENOUS&PEASANT MOVEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COTOPAXI INDIGENOUS&PEASANT MOVEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; LATACUNGA (ECUADOR); QUITO (ECUADOR); ECUADOR (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ANDES (73%); QUITO, ECUADOR (88%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDIANS, AMERICAN PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); COUPS (89%); POLITICS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); MAMMALS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (51%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (51%); RELIGION (51%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; NOBOA, GUSTAVO (PRES) ANTONIO VARGAS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



679 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1699 words

HEADLINE: Coca-Cola to Cut 20% of Its Staff AfterWoes at Home and Abroad

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
Humbled by a year of problems at home and abroad, Coca-Cola said yesterday that it would cut 6,000 jobs, or a fifth of its global work force of 30,000, in the biggest reductions ever by the company.
Word of the job losses reverberated around the company's headquarters in Atlanta, where Coke images dot the skyline from billboards to the baseball stadium, and where the company is long identified with success both personal and collective. About 2,500 employees, or nearly half the people at Coke's gleaming downtown complex, will be let go. 
 "There was a lot of crying today," said one employee as she left through the iron gates of the company compound. "A lot of people are packing up." The company, which has been known for generous benefits, job security and unflagging optimism about its future, said some employees were notified yesterday, and others would be by the end of next month.
The last time Coca-Cola laid off workers was in 1988, when 200 people lost their jobs.
The impact on the Atlanta economy is not expected to be severe. "It's more the psychological rather than the economic impact, which shouldn't be that large," said Donald Ratajczak, director of the Georgia Economic Forecasting Center at Georgia State University in Atlanta.
To cover severance packages and other costs related to the cuts, the company will take an $800 million charge against its earnings this year. In addition, Coke announced an $813 million charge for the fourth quarter of last year to cover costs of its poorly performing plants in Russia and Eastern Europe. Indicating all its problems are not past, the company said bottlers in several key markets would buy less concentrate this year to reduce bloated inventories.
"The world in which we operate has changed dramatically, and we must change to succeed," Douglas N. Daft, Coke's newly designated chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. Since being named to the top job last month, he has moved quickly to decentralize operations and make Coke more responsive to its various markets around the world. He is replacing M. Douglas Ivester, who lasted barely two years and whose tenure was marked by falling profits and image problems around the world.
Through most of the 1990's, Coke was a paragon of success among globe-trotting American consumer-products companies, and it stuck resolutely to its strategy even as its profits eroded over the last two years. Many of its difficulties can be traced to regional economic woes.
But the reorganization announced yesterday was interpreted by some stock analysts and investors as Coca-Cola's tacit admission that it had blundered badly, overinvesting in some markets and failing to streamline its operations for too long.
"It's not just a small, insignificant number -- it's $1.6 billion," said Marc Cohen, a beverage stocks analyst for Goldman, Sachs & Company, of the two charges for job and inventory reductions.
Sweeping moves to clear away problems are typical when a new executive takes over. The practice helps make future quarters look better in comparison, and it often gives a company's stock price a lift. Coke said yesterday that it expected savings of $300 million a year from the job cuts and related moves. Though the stock rose early on the company's scheduled earnings report, it fell $2.8125 a share on the day, to close at $63.0625.
While job reductions had been predicted, the cuts were much greater than expected. Indicating their seriousness, Mr. Daft and other senior managers discussed the moves in a morning conference call with Wall Street analysts and investors -- the first call of its kind for Coca-Cola, analysts said. Coke said that after a six-month review of the entire company, it had decided to eliminate departments that were not central to the company's objectives.
"What we are going to be doing is centering our activity on marketing and on meeting the needs of customers and consumers," Jack L. Stahl, who was named company president last week, said in an interview later in the day. "We said, gee, what kind of company do we want to be? We started that way, as opposed to setting a target on cuts."
Although the changes are radical -- the company also plans to transfer many responsibilities formerly handled by executives in Atlanta to local managers -- they left some investors wondering what else was to come.
One money manager said he sold his entire stake in Coca-Cola after reading the company's statement before the opening bell on Wall Street. "For the last 10 years, everything seemed to go right for Coca-Cola," said Fredric E. Russell, whose fund in Tulsa, Okla., had 70,000 Coca-Cola shares until yesterday. "Now there is a recognition that those years may have been unusual, and we can't count on the same volume growth and the same returns on equity."
Some of the volume growth reported in past years is now suspect because of the company's announcement that bottlers in Japan, Germany and Eastern Europe would reduce their inventories, said Andrew J. Conway, a beverage analyst for Morgan Stanley. While Canada and the United States account for about 27 percent of profits, Japan generates 20 percent. Germany is Coke's fourth-largest market.
"The biggest surprise is that they are taking down their inventory levels, which implies that they overstated their earnings growth between 1997 and last year," Mr. Conway said. "What's to stop them from doing it again? This is a very negative development because it pushes the improvement of Coke's returns further out into the future." The reduced purchasing by bottlers is expected to trim earnings by 11 cents to 13 cents a share in the first half of this year, the company said.
"This move is intended to take bottler inventories to their optimal level, which will help bottlers free up working capital and assist in increasing their returns on invested capital," said a Coke spokesman, Ben Deutsch.
After the company's announcement, it was clear that this would be the third consecutive year of disappointing results, instead of the "year of recovery" that Mr. Daft had promised when he was named to Coke's top job last month.
The charge against earnings in the last quarter are for losses on investments in Russia and the Baltic countries, but many expect additional charges related to India. Coke management is still assessing conditions there, and in other parts of the world.
What also troubled some listeners was that Mr. Daft indicated during the conference call that Coke's growth targets for both its sales and earnings would have to be revised, Mr. Cohen said. "He indicated that the long-term growth goals have been too ambitious," he said.
And for this year, Mr. Daft suggested the company would earn slightly more than $1.50 a share, Mr. Cohen added. That is at the low end of the $1.50 to $1.60 range the company had estimated. "This is the 11th quarter in a row that I have cut estimates for the Coca-Cola Company," Mr. Cohen said.
Other industry experts said the reorganization was Mr. Daft's effort to put Coca-Cola back on course, after a particularly troubling year. The company had the biggest product recall in its history in June, after children in Belgium who drank Coke products said they felt ill and the contamination scare spread to France and other parts of Europe. Coke was also fined $16 million by Italian regulators over its anti-competitive marketing practices and stumbled in its efforts to acquire the Orangina and Cadbury Schweppes brands in Europe. In Atlanta, the company is facing a discrimination lawsuit, filed by eight black employees who say they were denied promotions, raises and other benefits.
"The last two years have been a pseudo-trauma for Coke on so many fronts," said Emanuel Goldman, a global consumer-products analyst for Merrill Lynch. "When it rains, it pours. But they were in a monsoon."
Moving more executives into the field, away from Atlanta, is meant to improve the company's understanding of consumers in the 200 countries where it sells its drinks. The company will also embrace local brands more than it has in the past, although it will still emphasize Coca-Cola.
"The nature and scope of these changes reflect basically what Daft wanted and what Daft believes to be good for the company," said John D. Sicher, editor of Beverage Digest, a trade publication. "It certainly makes sense for some companies to be centralized. But it really makes sense for Coke to be decentralized."
Many of the 2,500 job cuts at Coke's headquarters in Atlanta will come from departments that are being eliminated or replaced by outside companies. Others will take early retirement, the company said. Some functions, like payroll management and groundskeeping, will be awarded to other companies.
About 800 people elsewhere in the United States will be displaced, as will 2,700 people in company offices abroad, or almost 14 percent of the overseas work force of 20,000.
Because of the pending racial discrimination lawsuit, the composition of the work force before and after the cuts will certainly be closely examined by lawyers and others. Mr. Daft recently wooed back the company's highest ranking executive, Carl Ware, who had been nudged out under Mr. Ivester.
For the fourth quarter, Coke said its volume growth was slightly better than expected. The company reported that case volume increased 6 percent, although volume for the entire year grew by less than 2 percent.
For the year, per-share earnings fell 31 percent, with the $800 million charge included, to 98 cents, compared with $1.42 a year earlier. The fourth quarter produced a rare loss of 2 cents a share. Without the charge, the company would have earned 31 cents a share. In the period a year earlier, the company made 24 cents a share.
One money manager who sold all of his Coca-Cola shares at the end of last year said that the moves might bring some investors back. "It's clear that they are moving the company back in line with economic reality," said David Garza, an analyst at Roxbury Capital Management in Los Angeles. "It's back to the future. It's the new Coke, and I am starting to like it again."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Falling Short of Expectations"
Coca-Cola has had trouble meeting earnings expectations in recent years, partly because the growth of its cola business has slowed.
 
Graph tracks Coca-Cola's earnings per share, adjusted for stock splits, since 1995.
 
Graph tracks the yearly growth in volume of Coca-Cola cases shipped since 1995.
(Source: Sanford C. Bernstein)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (90%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; SOFT DRINKS DISMISSALS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BASEBALL (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L; DAFT, DOUGLAS N

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



680 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Claims Credit for Times Sq. Revival

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that he, not his predecessor at City Hall, deserved credit for cutting the deal with the Walt Disney Company that led to the resurrection of 42nd Street and Times Square.
Mr. Giuliani's remarks in a speech to the New York Building Congress were in response to an article in The New York Times yesterday about the mayor's legacy of building and development in the city. The article said former Mayor David N. Dinkins "made the deal with Disney that led to the new Times Square." 
 Mayor Giuliani said, "The deal that was made to bring Disney to Times Square was made in my office, and announced by me." He added that the statement in The Times was the product of "either incompetence or political ideology."
On the last day of the Dinkins administration in December 1993, Deputy Mayor Barry Sullivan signed a nonbinding agreement with Disney to rebuild the New Amsterdam Theater on 42nd Street. In February 1994, the new mayor, Mr. Giuliani, stood with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo at a City Hall news conference to announce a tentative agreement with the company, and a final deal was hammered out over the next 18 months.
Over the past 18 years, two governors and three mayors -- beginning with Edward I. Koch -- have jockeyed for credit for rebuilding Times Square into a neon-infused mixture of media corporations, theaters, financial companies, restaurants and television studios.
The redevelopment project, which was led by the 42nd Street Development Corporation, a state agency, was hobbled for more than a decade by lawsuits, internal bickering and a recession. But all that changed after Disney agreed to take over the New Amsterdam, a development that subsequently attracted a host of other companies to invest in what had been a seedy district.
"It was a combined effort," said David L. Malmuth, who was general manager of Disney's development company at the time. "Dinkins was critical from the outset because we started the project working with his administration. He was personally supportive, so much so that he pushed to get the framework for a deal done by the end of 1993. Immediately afterward, Giuliani indicated that he was supportive, so there was no loss of momentum."
The Giuliani administration and Gov. George E. Pataki worked out a final deal with Disney, which was signed in July 1995. The company had insisted that the state sign deals with at least two other entertainment companies and that the city rid 42nd Street of the pornographic shops. The Giuliani administration worked with Disney to write legislation that led to the migration of the shops.
"It was Giuliani and Pataki who were there when it opened," Mr. Malmuth said, "but without the support of Dinkins and Cuomo it wouldn't have happened."
The Cuomo administration, he added, "had decided that if they could get the Disney deal, they could trigger all the other things that have since happened on 42nd Street." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (94%); NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (58%); NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (58%); NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); DINKINS, DAVID N; BAGLI, CHARLES V RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



681 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Legacy: His Own Making

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Jan. 24 editorial reviewing the Clinton years bemoans President Clinton's lack of accomplishment in the area of social legislation and wonders why he could not do more despite seven years of economic prosperity and peace. But for most of his time in office, Mr. Clinton has had a mean-spirited Republican Congress whose priority was to minimize his social-welfare accomplishments, even at the expense of the American people. 
 The growing tendency of the electorate to divide the presidency and Congress among the two parties, as an illusion of checks and balances, and the inability of the two branches to compromise to meet the needs of the people, bode poorly for our future.
 
LAWRENCE J. DEUTSCH
Longboat Key, Fla., Jan. 24, 2000
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, LAWRENCE J; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



682 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
Excerpts From Five Republicans' Debate in New Hampshire

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a debate involving Gary L. Bauer, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, Steve Forbes, Alan Keyes and Senator John McCain of Arizona, candidates for the Republican presidential nomination, last night at the WMUR television studio in Manchester, N.H., as recorded by The New York Times. The candidates answered questions from Bernard Shaw of CNN, Karen Brown of WMUR and one another. 

MR. SHAW -- Governor Bush, if you could write a two-sentence amendment to the United States Constitution on abortion, what would it be?
MR. BUSH -- It would be that every child, born and unborn, should be protected in law and every child should be welcomed in life. I believe it's important for our party to maintain our pro-life position.
I believe it's important for the next president to recognize good people can disagree on this issue, and so the next president must elevate the issue of life to convince people of the preciousness of life, not only for the young, but for the elderly as well.
The next president must lead our country toward policies that will reduce abortions. I will sign a partial-birth abortion ban. I will promote adoption. I will promote abstinence programs in our school systems.
The life issue is a important issue for our party, and our party must not abandon our pro-life position, but we must welcome people from different persuasions into our party, or different points of view into our party. . . .
MR. FORBES -- When you ran for governor in 1994, you criticized Ann Richards for the fact that Texas had 13,000 more state employees than did New York State. Since then, the gap is now 36,000. Texas has 36,000 more employees than the state of New York does, state level. Under your leadership spending has gone up 36 percent, almost twice the rate of the Clinton-Gore administration. On your so-called tax cut, your own budget director said that 6 out of 10 Texans did not get a tax cut in this last round. . . . What can you tell the people of New Hampshire and of America that you won't do in Washington what you've done in Texas?
MR. BUSH -- So many half stories, so little time.
Let's start with education. People who've looked at the state of Texas have consistently said that because we have set high standards, abolished social promotion, got a vibrant charter school movement, have got a public school choice movement, that we're making the best progress in the nation for improvement among minority students. . . .
In terms of the budget, I've slowed the rate of growth down. And when you take out population growth and inflation, it's by far the slowest rate of growth ever in my state's history. In terms of tax cuts, I not only led our state to a billion-dollar tax cut in '97, I led our state to a $2 billion tax cut in 1999, real meaningful tax cuts.
But I guess the way to answer your question is, you know, the people of Texas took a look at my record. The second biggest state in the union, a mighty important electoral state for any Republican running for president and they said, Mr. Governor, we accept your record, and they overwhelmingly voted me back into office. I nearly got 70 percent of the vote. . . .
MR. BAUER -- Steve, . . . will you repeal most-favored-nation status for China? I will in my first week in office.
MR. FORBES -- . . . I believe that we must let the Chinese know what the rules of engagement are. If they want a prosperous relationship, they can have it. But you have to lay down the rules because then, if they break those rules, then you can take a course of action and unite this country and unite our allies. The rules of engagement would include the understanding: We'd make it clear that they cannot run us out of Asia as they're trying to do now. And they cannot use force against Taiwan. Where they've made an agreement not to use force against Taiwan, we're going to hold them to it. And that means we must rebuild our military instead of run it down and we must move ahead with the missile defense system.
On human rights abuses, we will criticize them in every international forum possible. Dissidents in China have told me and others how important that is to put the spotlight on.
In terms of trade, of course, we want trade with China, but it has to be two way. They have to genuinely reduce barriers, not the fake promises they've made to the gullible Clinton-Gore administration.
And if China wishes to pass technology on to rogue states like North Korea or to Pakistan, we should put sanctions on specific Chinese companies, particularly those controlled by the People's Liberation Army.
So you let them know what the rules are. If they don't adhere to those rules, then you take the appropriate steps, including taking trade sanctions.
MR. BAUER -- Steve, you know, you, you've done it again. You've had over a minute and 15 seconds, and you can't answer a simple question. . . . All of the things that you just said hypothetically has already been done by China. You refuse to answer a simple question. Will you repeal most-favored-nation status for China or not?
MR. FORBES -- I'm trying to make it clear, Gary, in very simple terms. If China violates those rules of engagement, when they -- now -- now that they know what they are, then trade is going to be on the table including most favored nation. And most favored nation will be withdrawn if they want that confrontation.
 A full transcript of the debate is available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/politics 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); BUDGETS (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (67%); SCHOOL CHOICE (60%); HISTORY (60%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); FORBES, STEVE (MALCOLM S FORBES JR); BAUER, GARY L; KEYES, ALAN GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (88%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



683 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATS;
Two Democrats Fire Broadsides In Testy Debate

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Jan. 26

 BODY:
Facing questions about the vigor of his campaign and under frequent attack from Vice President Al Gore, former Senator Bill Bradley attacked Mr. Gore tonight over abortion, welfare reform, health care plans that "nibble around the edges" and for working "hand in glove with special interests."
In their seventh and most combative debate, held just six days before the New Hampshire primary, Mr. Gore hammered Mr. Bradley on familiar subjects, accusing him of voting with President Ronald Reagan against children and of offering a health plan that did not do what it promised. 
 The testy, one-hour debate was punctuated with contradictions and quarrels. Each Democratic presidential candidate accused the other of conducting a negative campaign, and Mr. Bradley even raised the specter of President Richard M. Nixon. With Mr. Bradley hoping to regain his political footing and avoid a second consecutive defeat after Monday's drubbing in Iowa, his aggressiveness was particularly notable while Mr. Gore's was more familiar.
"Why should we believe that you will tell the truth as president if you won't tell the truth as a candidate?" Mr. Bradley asked. "Any politician can pick a fight, but only a leader can move a country forward."
Mr. Gore defended his record against the special interest charge when he said, "I have fought for working people against every lobby that exists in Washington." And he spoke up for President Clinton, too, saying, "People are tired of the whole discussion about the president's personal mistake. They think that by and large he has been a great president, in turning this economy around."
Abortion was the first issue joined. Even as the Republican presidential candidates are competing to assert their credentials as opponents of abortion, Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley are arguing their records as defenders of abortion rights.
The Democratic candidates' positions are now identical, favoring no change in the Roe v. Wade decision and supporting a change in the law, to require Medicaid to pay for abortions for poor women. But Mr. Bradley pointed out that National Right to Life, an advocacy group, had given Mr. Gore an 84 percent positive rating in his early years in Congress, when he opposed Medicaid abortions.
"Your campaign shouldn't go around saying that you've always been for a woman's right to choose, because the record shows you did not," Mr. Bradley said.
Mr. Gore defended himself, saying "It's true that early in my career I wrestled with the question of what kinds of exceptions should be allowed to the general rule that Medicaid should also pay for this procedure. I have come to the strong view that all women, regardless of their income, must have the right to choose, and that's my position." He added, "If you want to manufacture a distinction, O.K."
The vice president's first salvo came on an issue Mr. Bradley has tried to make his signature, a pledge to "end child poverty in America."
Mr. Gore said, "The '81 budget cuts that Ronald Reagan proposed resulted in an increase of one million children losing health care under Medicaid and one and a half million children living in poverty. Why did you support those changes?"
Mr. Bradley replied, "My job was to try to diminish the effect of those budget cuts. We succeeded in doing that. Ultimately I voted for the Reagan budget," he said. "But it was an act of leadership."
Mr. Gore then asked his rival why he had voted against the welfare overhaul, which Mr. Gore said had "moved seven million people from welfare to work."
Mr. Bradley fired back by asking "why you think it's working so well when because of welfare reform there are one million children in this country who don't have health insurance." He called the October 1996 vote to pass the bill "a gamble with kids for re-election."
"I was not willing to take that gamble," Mr. Bradley said.
As they have throughout the campaign, they quarreled about each other's health care proposals. Mr. Gore said his plan would "get to universal health care for all Americans in a step-by-step way."
Mr. Bradley replied, "You've said again tonight you're for universal health care. The problem is you don't get anywhere close to getting there. You nibble around the edges and indeed you have nothing in your budget for the next ten years to get the universal health insurance."
Mr. Gore attacked the Bradley plan, as he often has before, contending that it provided too little money to buy the insurance plans it was supposed to furnish. "People here in New Hampshire would really be left out in the cold," he said.
But the policy arguments were sedate in comparison with the personal exchanges, with Mr. Bradley comparing the vice president to Richard Nixon.
Mr. Gore accused him of negative campaigning and said, "If you're going to talk about a higher standard, live by it."
Mr. Bradley said, "When Al accuses me of negative campaigning, that reminds me of the story about Richard Nixon. They said Richard Nixon is the kind of politician who would chop down a tree, then stand on the stump and give a speech about conservation. It just won't wash."
Mr. Bradley then quoted a Boston Globe article saying Mr. Gore was the favorite of lobbyists. He asked, "How can you be fighting for the people when you're working hand in glove with the special interests who are fighting against the people?"
The vice president replied, "If that's not negative, I don't know what it is. You know, I have never been afraid to stand up to the special interests."
"I have fought for working people against every lobby that exists in Washington for 23 years now," Mr. Gore added. "I have fought for the people."
Mr. Bradley answered that all Mr. Gore offered was "politics as usual." He said, "And that's a thousand promises and a thousand attacks. Promised to every little special interest group, attack, attack, attack every day. That's been the nature of it. And quite frankly, I think the people are fed up with it, but from your standpoint, nothing is changed, the lobbyists are still in charge in Washington."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore, with his wife, Tipper, left, and their daughter Kristen, was in an exultant mood last night as he walked with union supporters to debate his Democratic rival for the presidency, former Senator Bill Bradley, at television station WMUR in Manchester, N.H. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A23)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; MANCHESTER (NH); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DEBATING; PRIMARIES; ABORTION; WELFARE (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ELECTION ISSUES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); MEDICAID (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ABORTION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL; REAGAN, RONALD; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94) AL GORE (93%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); RICHARD NIXON (73%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



684 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section G; Page 8; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Filing Your Taxes Online: It's Faster, More Accurate And Welcomed by I.R.S.

BYLINE: By CATHERINE GREENMAN 

 BODY:
IF the Internal Revenue Service had its druthers, all the taxpayers and preparers who still mail in returns would get on their PC's and file over the Internet.
The advantages of filing taxes electronically using stand-alone or Internet-based software are numerous, the agency says. 
 With electronic returns, I.R.S. employees don't have to type information into the agency's computer system, as they do with paper returns, and that reduces costs. The agency says taxpayers who file electronically will get electronic confirmations that the returns were received and will get their refunds in about half the time (usually within 7 to 10 days), compared with the usual time required for a return that was mailed in.
In addition, returns that are prepared and sent electronically tend to be more accurate, said Robert E. Barr, the assistant commissioner for electronic tax administration at the agency. "Returns prepared with a pencil and calculator have about a 20 percent error rate, compared to a 5 percent error rate for those prepared by software," Mr. Barr said. "And the electronic gateway on our end is more reliable than the keypunchers who transfer the data from paper to our system."
The I.R.S. has recently been publicizing its goal of having at least 80 percent of all individual tax returns filed electronically by 2007. Currently, about 25 percent of total returns are filed electronically, either over the Web or through the telefile program, where filing is done by pushing buttons on the phone.
Of course, many Americans still sit at the dining-room table or at their desks with calculators and fill out their tax forms by hand, or they take their W-2's and other papers to an accountant to have their taxes prepared and mailed.
"People do what they're used to," said Len Silverman, a certified public accountant with a private practice in New York City who still files his clients' returns by mail. "It's going to take awhile for the change to electronic filing to filter through the economy."
But the convenience of electronic filing is catching on. Thirty million returns were filed electronically last year, according to the I.R.S., a 19 percent increase over the year before. And according to Forrester Research, the number of people who used Internet-based tax programs to prepare their returns will reach one million this year, only the second year that such services have been available.
Those who choose to file their returns electronically this year will face a range of choices. Virtually every computer-based tax preparation option -- whether it involves software that is bought at a store, downloaded from the Web or run directly over the Web from an online tax preparer's server -- allows the user to transmit a federal return electronically. And because more paid tax preparers are applying for agency approval to file electronically, they are becoming increasingly able to file their clients' returns online. Among the 29 million returns received from hired preparers in 1999, 21 million were received electronically, Mr. Barr said.
Quicken TurboTax Deluxe, a popular program offered by Intuit on CD-ROM, is available in stores and online at the Intuit Web site this year for $49.95; the state tax version can be downloaded free when the federal software is bought online.
Kiplinger TaxCut Deluxe, sold by H & R Block, is available in stores and online for $39.95 and includes free state tax software.
The deluxe versions of tax-preparation programs generally tack on tax-planning and tax-saving guides. The standard versions of Quicken TurboTax (downloadable or on CD-ROM, $29.95) and Kiplinger TaxCut (downloadable or on CD-ROM, $14.95) do not include state forms. All the tax software mentioned here is available for both Windows PC's and Macs
For those who want to avoid downloading or installing the tax software programs, both Intuit and H & R Block offer Web counterparts to their software programs. Each of these programs offers the same features and forms as the software versions, but the information you type in during the interview process is stored on the company's servers instead of on your computer. TurboTax for the Web for Tax Year 1999 costs $9.95 for the federal version, $4.95 for the state version. The charge for the Web version for TaxCut, available next week, is $9.95 for each form filed.
Both Intuit's and H & R Block's Internet tax preparation programs are free to those who qualify for filing 1040EZ forms. In addition, Intuit's Tax Freedom Program is available online to anyone with a 1999 adjusted gross income of less than $20,000, regardless of how complicated the return is. The state return is also free.
This year, Microsoft has entered the tax preparation software market with the release of TaxSaver Federal Deluxe on CD-ROM, which sells for $44.95 (before a $20 rebate). A lighter version of TaxSaver can be downloaded at taxsaver.msn.com for $19.95. Neither of these programs includes state returns.
Once you submit a software-prepared return online to the software manufacturer, it is encrypted and batched with other returns and sent electronically to the I.R.S. "Our system is designed to receive 50 to 500 forms at a time," Mr. Barr said. "We don't have a system in place to receive onesies directly from individual filers."
Two newcomers to the online tax preparation business, H. D. Vest (www.hdvestonline .com) and Taxes 4 Less (www.taxes4less .com), in Calabasas, Calif., are offering services this year.
H. D. Vest Online is offering free federal and state return form preparation, regardless of income level or the return's degree of complication, with the hopes of attracting potential new customers to other financial services offered by the company, which is based in Irving, Tex. Customers answer a series of questions online to complete a return. Once it is completed, H. D. Vest sends the filer an e-mail message with suggestions for financial planning, tips on reducing next year's tax bill and the location of a local H. D. Vest affiliate.
Unlike the rest of the services mentioned here, Taxes4Less's tax preparation site is not fully automated. Instead, taxpayers fill out a questionnaire online, pay a fee of about $100 and transmit the information to a living, breathing tax analyst, commissioned by the company, who prepares the return. Returns are sent back to the filer within 48 hours by regular mail or e-mail, said Greg Yulish, president and co-founder of Taxes4Less.
The company offers a $3 incentive to encourage people to file their federal taxes electronically once they are completed.
Lest you think that any of the software or Internet-based tax preparation solutions are completely paperless, be aware that you still have to sign and mail an 8453 form (stating that you understand and agree with your return) to the I.R.S. after you file electronically. The forms are available for printing at all the sites once the returns are completed.
Last year the I.R.S. sent out on postcards 11 million E-file Customer Numbers, which taxpayers can enter on their electronic returns in lieu of sending in the 8453 form. The postcards were sent to taxpayers who had filed electronically the previous year, Mr. Barr said.
Taxpayers who owe money can make their payments with checks, have them debited directly from their bank accounts or charge them to their American Express, Discover or MasterCard accounts. The credit card companies may charge convenience fees, which will be noted on the cardholder's statement. Those who want to pay by direct debit or by credit card must call (888) 2PAY-TAX.
For those who want to fill out paper forms and file by mail, a computer can still be useful. All federal forms and publications are available for downloading at the I.R.S. site, which is reached at www.irs.gov/forms pubs/findfiles.html.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Circuits on Thursday about electronic filing of tax returns included an option erroneously among those for payments by telephone to the Internal Revenue Service. The Official Payment Corporation, which operates the (888) 2-PAYTAX number, accepts only American Express, MasterCard and Discover charge cards -- not debit cards.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (78%); ACCOUNTING (62%); 

PERSON: GREENMAN, CATHERINE; BARR, ROBERT E ROBERT E BARR (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000



685 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 33; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 4545 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD;
Where Winter's a Wonder and Smiles Are Sincere. You Betcha.

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS

 BODY:
Snow paralyzes some American cities and disheartens others. But Minneapolis and its unidentical twin, St. Paul, cope with it. More than that; many people here positively revel in it. Winter is their favorite season.
Come here the morning after a blizzard, and main roads have already been cleared. One time my wife, Betsey, and I, inured to snow-induced civic inertia in Washington, watched dumbfounded as a miniature street-sweeping machine brushed snow from downtown sidewalks as soon as it fell. 
 Take a ride out to Lake of the Isles, southwest of downtown Minneapolis, on a crisp, cold Saturday, with the skies a pure, cerulean blue and the snow heaped eye-high in front of wonderful big Prairie Style houses by gifted acolytes of Frank Lloyd Wright like George Washington Maher and George Grant Elmslie. Young men and women play exuberant pick-up hockey on the frozen lake, like figures in an Avercamp painting, while more sedate souls glide silently past on cross-country skis. At times like that "Winter Wonderland" is more than a song title.
No matter how hard the polar winds blow, people here say "You betcha," just the way they did in the movie "Fargo." They smile and urge you to have a nice day, so earnestly that they convince you they mean it. So sincerely that cynics call Minnesota "the Land of the Bland," a dubious epithet for a state with a counterculture that gave the world Bob Dylan and an electorate that chose Jesse Ventura, a bullet-bald former wrestler, as governor.
The Germans and Scandinavians who flocked here toward the end of the 19th century were used to cold weather. The Vietnamese, Mexicans and Somalis who came here toward the end of the 20th century were not, but they quickly got the hang of it. And a good thing, too: from December to March, there is an average of about six inches of snow on the ground, and in January midday temperatures often struggle to reach the balmy double digits.
It's not that the Twin Cities are so far north. Seattle and Montreal, London and Berlin and even Paris are all nearer the Arctic Circle than Minneapolis and St. Paul, but they're all reasonably close to the sea. The Twin Cities lie hundreds of miles from the Atlantic or Pacific.
Outraged by this newspaper's assertion in 1885 that Minnesota was an American Siberia, a group of civic boosters founded the St. Paul Winter Carnival, which has evolved over the years into a sort of Arctic Mardi Gras. Every year, with unfailing regularity, Vulcanus Rex, the king of fire, drives wintry King Boreas from his throne, ensuring the return of spring. Otherwise sane men and women run in the world's frostiest half-marathon, and in some years an ice palace weighing millions of pounds is constructed.
The humorist Garrison Keillor, the pot-roast poet laureate, whose weekly radio program, "A Prairie Home Companion," originates most weeks from the Fitzgerald Theater in St. Paul, once said that "true Minnesotans have a fondness for storm fronts, a lack of fashion sense and a belief that there is moral worth in suffering."
Recently, The Wall Street Journal ran a piece about John Glotzbach, one of a group of wacky Minnesota Vikings fans who regularly watch the team's games not from seats inside the relatively toasty Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome but on portable television sets outside their cars in the parking lot.
"I got offered tickets, but I hate the dome," he said, with all the righteous zeal of an ice fisherman. "It's way too corporate."
 
Indoor Diversions
An extreme case, obviously. Less masochistic Twin Cities residents keep frostbite at bay during their brutal winters by spending a lot of time indoors. The world's first enclosed shopping mall, Southdale, opened in Edina, a Minneapolis suburb, in 1956. It was a smash hit, soon copied in other suburbs. Alarmed, downtown merchants invented the Skywalk, a system of enclosed passages a story above the street, linking buildings and making it possible to reach shops, restaurants and offices without venturing outside. Now 100 buildings in Minneapolis and 65 in St. Paul are linked.
For such relatively young cities -- Minneapolis was not incorporated until after the Civil War -- these two have a startlingly rich artistic tradition. Philanthropic families like the Pillsburys and Daytons have helped build orchestras, museums and theaters of national repute.
The Minnesota Orchestra (formerly the Minneapolis Symphony), which will celebrate its 100th birthday in 2002-3, has been led by conductors of the caliber of Eugene Ormandy, Dimitri Mitropoulos, Antal Dorati and Neville Marriner. Its home is Orchestra Hall in Minneapolis, whose superb acoustics are enhanced by a distinctive "icefall" of white cubes that runs across the ceiling and cascades down the wall behind the players.
Eiji Oue, the Hiroshima-born incumbent conductor, came here as a complete unknown, partially on the recommendation of Seiji Ozawa, the music director in Boston. Some critics praised his work, including Anthony Tommasini of The New York Times, who wrote in 1998 that Mr. Oue seemed to be "making good things happen." But he has never earned the full confidence of the orchestra, and attendance has fallen from 84 percent of capacity to 69 percent during his tenure. He will leave in 2002, "by mutual agreement," and the orchestra is seeking a big name as his replacement at a time when big names are scarce and at least a half-dozen orchestras in America, plus several in Europe, are in the market.
The St. Paul Chamber Orchestra, the closest American counterpart to such European groups as the Academy of St. Martin-in-the-Fields, is also losing its leader, Hugh Wolff. A successful successor to Pinchas Zukerman, among others, he has been the principal conductor in St. Paul since 1988 and the music director there since 1992.
Music is served here in other ways as well -- by the Minnesota Opera, a tireless promoter of new music, based at the Ordway Center for the Performing Arts in St. Paul, which plans to move next year from four productions annually to five; the Viennese Sommerfest, founded by the conductor Leonard Slatkin; and Minnesota Public Radio, long a national leader in classical-music programming.
An Irish stage genius named Tyrone Guthrie, fresh from triumphs at Stratford in Canada, gave the Twin Cities a theatrical showplace in 1963, with an unconventional thrust stage like those of ancient Greece and Elizabethan England. Under another Irishman, Joe Dowling, the Guthrie company is enjoying its greatest successes since the early days, with classics like Shaw's "Misalliance," O'Neill's "Ah, Wilderness!" and O'Casey's "Plough and the Stars," plus modern fare like John Guare's new play, "Lake Hollywood."
It wants to do more, and Minneapolis has just released a plot of land downtown, previously reserved for a baseball stadium, for a proposed new Guthrie Theater containing three auditoriums of various sizes.
 
Art and Architectural Depth
The Walker Art Center is one of the nation's foremost museums of modern art, second only, in some people's thinking, to the Museum of Modern Art. It rotates its collection constantly, to make space for special shows, so many of its iconic pictures, like Franz Marc's "Large Blue Horses," are always in storage. But its holdings of Jasper Johns and Donald Judd, Ellsworth Kelly and Robert Rauschenberg are large, and a selection is always on view. So is more contemporary stuff, like a 1997 sculpture by Charles Ray, a life-size plastic cast of a wrecked Pontiac. Is it a comment on the fragility of modern life or modern culture, or both?
A large sculpture garden occupies most of a block across from the museum, dominated by Claes Oldenburg and Coosje Van Bruggen's hilarious giant teaspoon, topped with a brilliantly red cherry.
A second major museum, the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, aspires to mini-Metropolitan Museum of Art status, with collections sampling all of world art history. After a 10-year restoration ending in 1998, its collections have been reinstalled, with 4,000 objects now on view, as against 1,125 in 1985.
Its strengths lie in German art between the wars (lots of Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, a great Max Beckmann triptych, an extraordinary Emil Nolde, all orange and blood-red); in Impressionism and Post-Impressionism, including major van Goghs and Gaugins; in Chinese jade, and in American decorative arts. A hall from one of Wright's triumphs, the Francis W. Little house on Lake Minnetonka, demolished a number of years ago, is on display here, along with furniture by Wright, Maher and Elmslie. (Another part of the Little house is in the Met.)
The main museum building is a finely detailed Beaux Arts temple by McKim, Mead & White, the Minneapolis counterpart of St. Paul's great hilltop landmark, the state capitol by Cass Gilbert, a hometown boy. With its refined marble dome and gilded quadriga by Daniel Chester French, the capitol can hold its head high in the company of Boston's and Richmond's.
In downtown Minneapolis, two of the most dramatic structures, the IDS skyscraper by Philip Johnson and the Hennepin County government center by John Carl Warnecke, have large glazed atriums perfectly suited to the climate. The seven-story Crystal Court at the IDS Center is particularly felicitous, a meeting place for the city, with a ring of water dropping from the ceiling into a pool. The opening of "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," set in the Twin Cities, was filmed there.
Eliel Saarinen and his son, Eero, built a spare Lutheran church in Minneapolis that might be in rural Finland. Marcel Breuer built a much-praised, Corbusier-influenced concrete chapel at St. John's College in nearby Collegeville. But neither dazzles quite as much as Frank Gehry's shimmering Frederick R. Weisman Art Museum (1993), at the University of Minnesota, a kind of dress rehearsal for his Bilbao Guggenheim, which changes color with the changing weather. Clad in brushed stainless steel, its lopsided cubes and irregular cylinders tumble down the east bank of the Mississippi like Marcel Duchamp's "Nude Descending a Staircase" in three dimensions.
 
Big Suburbs, New Ethnicity
These are not river towns in the sense that St. Louis or Memphis are, but the Mississippi, which rises in Lake Itasca, near Bemidji, 220 miles northwest of here, flows right through the middle of the metropolitan area. Minneapolis is mostly but not wholly on the right bank, St. Paul mostly but not wholly on the left. Which is a shame, because it spoils the otherwise telling gibe of Trevor Fishlock, an English journalist, who wrote after spending some time here that the Twin Cities "are divided by the Mississippi River and united by the belief that the inhabitants of the other side of the river are inferior."
Minneapolis is often called a small big city, St. Paul a big small town. Once Minnesota consisted of the Twin Cities, the prairies and not much else, but in recent years the suburbs have taken over. Today Minneapolis and St. Paul have only about 500,000 people between them, yet there are roughly three million in the metropolitan area, a seemingly uncontrollable sprawl that now ranks 15th in population among the nation's urban areas.
Out there, due south of Minneapolis, stands the Mall of America, incorporating no fewer than 500 stores, 49 restaurants, 14 theaters and 12,000 employees, a walk-through aquarium and a seven-story Ferris wheel. People fly to the Twin Cities from Europe just to shop there.
The old ethnic order has changed rapidly in the last quarter-century. No longer is Minneapolis mostly Swedish and Lutheran and St. Paul mostly German, Irish and Catholic. After the Vietnam War, Minnesotans opened their arms to boat people and other immigrants from Southeast Asia, notably the Laotian hill people known as the Hmong. They poured into the cities, followed by Latins, Africans and others. John W. Milton, an old college chum who grew up in St. Paul, told me that children in the St. Paul public school system came from households in which no fewer than 63 languages were spoken.
By now, there are 60,000 members of the Hmong in the area. They are passionate about education. Joua Xiong, a semiliterate health-care attendant who grows vegetables for sale in a farmer's market to make ends meet, has six children with university degrees. One of them is working on a doctorate.
 
Robber Barons' Legacy
The old economic order has changed, too. The first great fortunes hereabouts were made from flour, timber and railroads; you can sense how big those fortunes were by visiting the enormous Richardsonian Romanesque mansion of James J. Hill on Summit Avenue in St. Paul. It has 18 bathrooms, 35 fireplaces, a pipe organ and a two-story art gallery. When built in 1891, it was the largest house in the Midwest. Hill, a notoriously obstreperous gent, came to St. Paul when it was still named Pig's Eye and built the railroad that linked the Twin Cities to the wheat fields and to the West Coast.
West of Hill's pile, along a four-mile section of Summit Avenue, his fellow robber barons built Belle Epoque piles of their own, most of which have been diligently preserved. In the homely brownstone at 599 Summit Avenue, which he described as "a house below average on a street above average," F. Scott Fitzgerald, a St. Paul native, spent the summer of 1919 finishing "This Side of Paradise," the novel about Princeton that made him famous.
A block south of Summit runs Grand Avenue, the capital of the New Bohemia in the Upper Midwest -- young, hip, brainy, almost Bostonian. At the corner of Grand and Victoria, you'll find the nexus of the local cafe culture, chockablock with bookstores and coffee houses. Cafe Latte, in an old Studebaker showroom, serves a deservedly famous three-layer turtle cake, dripping chocolate, caramel and pecans, indescribably rich, improbably light. Betsey spent a half-hour trying to figure out how to get one home.
Big business seems far away, but it isn't. The Twin Cities have lost some headquarters lately; Norwest Bank bought Wells Fargo, but its C.E.O. and its main office moved to San Francisco, and the new bank took the Wells Fargo name. Honeywell, an old Minneapolis firm, has been sold to Allied Signal; the merged operation will be called Honeywell but will move East.
Still, plenty of big names remain, like Northwest Airlines, 3M (Scotch Tape, Post-Its and $16 billion in annual sales) and the St. Paul Companies (insurance). With Pillsbury, now a part of the British conglomerate Diageo P.L.C., Cargill and General Mills (Wheaties, Betty Crocker), Minneapolis remains the greatest grain-milling center in the world. Dayton Hudson, which owns big department stores here, in Chicago and in Detroit, is changing its name to Target to reflect the national scope of its discount stores. Innovators abound. The Radisson Hotel chain, once regional, is now international. The Best Buy retail chain has made its founder, Richard Schulze, a billionaire. Medtronic and St. Jude have flourished in the realm of new medical technology.
The Fitzgerald cult has survived in the face of all these changes, proving to be hardier than Fitzgerald himself. Mr. Keillor campaigned successfully to have a restored St. Paul theater named for him, and there the whimsical Minnesotan and his lively co-conspirators tell tales about a Thanksgiving turkey that fell in love with a dog, and reassure us, no matter how frazzled we may be, that there is one place where "the women are strong, the men are good-looking and the children are all above average."
That place, of course, is Lake Wobegon, as important a part of the Minnesota landscape as Lake Minnetonka near Minneapolis and White Bear Lake near St. Paul. Upward of 2.6 million people listen to the Wobegon news each week on 450 public stations across the nation. But the Twin Cities are worldly, civilized places. They resemble Lake Wobegon no more than they resemble another North Country stereotype, Sinclair Lewis's "Main Street," based on his proverbially provincial hometown, Sauk Center, Minn.
 
A Harvest of Politicians
For decades, the Twin Cities sent politicians on to prominent roles on the national stage. Every four years from 1948 through 1984, with only a few exceptions, a Minnesotan sought the presidency or vice presidency -- Harold Stassen, a serious contender before he became a standing joke; Hubert H. Humphrey, Eugene J. McCarthy, Walter F. Mondale. Several others, like Orville Freeman and Donald Fraser, played significant supporting roles.
Humphrey, a garrulous, big-hearted electoral warrior, made his national debut at the 1948 Democratic convention. As "the boy mayor of Minneapolis," he fought the South, exhorting his fellow delegates to step "out of the shadow of states' rights and into the bright sunshine of human rights." Two decades later, Humphrey came agonizingly close to the White House, even though he found himself saddled, as Lyndon B. Johnson's vice president, with support for the hugely unpopular Vietnam War. Not until late on the morning after Election Day 1968 did he finally, tearfully concede defeat to Richard M. Nixon in the ballroom of the old Leamington Hotel here.
"We had a wonderful political culture," Mr. Mondale said over dinner one night recently. "Clean, progressive, tolerant. Minnesota had a magnificent moderation then."
In a sense, that is gone. Neither of the not terribly prominent current senators, Rod Grams, a Republican, and Paul Wellstone, a Democrat, fits the old mold. Each resides on the ideological edge of his party. Americans for Democratic Action, a liberal pressure group, gives Mr. Wellstone a perfect score of 100 and Mr. Grams a zero. Humphrey's son, Hubert Horatio Humphrey III, called Skip, ran for the Senate in 1988 and for governor in 1998, but despite a good record as state attorney general his feet never quite reached the stirrups of higher office.
And then there is Governor Ventura, elected on the third-party Reform ticket in 1998, who is still a highly popular figure in Minnesota.
As a wrestler, under the nom de guerre Jesse the Body, he wore a feathered boa, and he has lost none of his flamboyance. But beneath it all he is a centrist, not an extremist, who won in part because the voters were tired of far-out politics. A political libertarian on cultural issues, who stands firmly against gay-bashing, Mr. Ventura is also a fiscal conservative.
"His style may be fire-engine red," Prof. Steven Schier of Carleton College observed not long ago, "but his politics are beige."
 
On the Waterfront
 
Minneapolis and St. Paul are about 1,200 miles west of New York City. Here is a sampling of attractions, along with travel information:
 
Where to Stay
 
NICOLLET ISLAND INN, 95 Merriam Street, Minneapolis, (612) 331-1800. Built as a sash-and-door factory in 1893, this modest, three-story hotel sits in mid-Mississippi, just upriver from the stone arch bridge constructed by James J. Hill to carry his railroad west. Antiques in the lobby and guest rooms give the place a rural feel, and an agreeable restaurant with sweeping river views occupies the glassed-in former loading dock. Room rate: $125 to $160.
 
HYATT WHITNEY, 150 Portland Avenue, Minneapolis, (612) 339-9300. An atypical Hyatt, installed in a cleverly converted flour mill, the Whitney offers 96 rooms, slightly spartan in mood. The best are duplexes, with sitting rooms linked to sleeping rooms by spiral staircases, facing the Mississippi at the spot where Minneapolis began. A red sign across the way -- "Pillsbury's Best Flour" -- recalls the city's economic roots. Room rate: $185 to $210 week nights; $99 to $210 weekends; $25 to $35 more for duplexes.
 
MARQUETTE HOTEL, 710 Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, (612) 333-4545. Built into the IDS skyscraper, and now managed by the Hilton chain, the Marquette has a prime location, with connections to the Skywalk system. In a city of mammoth hotels, it is manageable in size and individual in character. The oversize rooms on the upper floors have steam baths and attractive views over the city, but there is no valet parking and the staff can be dim. Room rate: $240 week nights; $119 weekends.
 
ST. PAUL HOTEL, 350 Market Street, St. Paul, (651) 292-9292. If business or pleasure takes you to the smaller of the Twin Cities, make a beeline for the St. Paul, the region's best hotel. Built in 1910 and brought up to date 75 years later, blessed with a good concierge, furnished with a lavish hand (Oriental carpets, exuberant flower displays), it has an ideally central site. The hotel's grill is St. Paul's finest restaurant. Room rate: $180 week nights; $125 weekends.
 
Where to Eat
 
AQUAVIT, 75 South Seventh Street, Minneapolis, (612) 343-3333. A branch of New York's top Scandinavian restaurant in America's top Scandinavian city seems like a no-brainer. But instead of mailing it in, Marcus Samuelsson, the chef at both places, brings witty, sometimes wacky ideas to the Twin Cities, aided by a bigger kitchen: smoked salmon and mango foam wrapped in newspaper (fish with no chips?); lobster wrapped in tuna and gravlax, bathed in a spicy tomato broth.
 
D'AMICO CUCINA, 100 North Sixth Street, Minneapolis, (612) 338-2401. In his two years at the helm of this urbane, understated establishment, J. P. Samuelson, who worked for David Bouley in New York, has developed a vivid style. A smoked trout salad with horseradish creme fraiche and lots of flat-leaf parsley explodes with flavor, as does crisp flatbread with prosciutto, gorgonzola and rhododendron honey. The all-Italian wine list is a revelation, packed with Barolos from the 1970's and 80's, from Aldo Coterno et al. Except for the snowdrifts outside in wintertime, you could be in Piemonte.
 
LA BELLE VIE, 312 South Main Street, Stillwater, (651) 430-3545. After a long stint at D'Amico Cucina, Tim McKee opened this bistro in a picture-book village on the St. Croix River. Spanish, Moroccan and Portuguese influences, as well as French and Italian ideas, are evident in his brightly seasoned, deeply flavored dishes and on the imaginative wine list. Harissa, mojo verde and Serrano ham on the American steppes? You betcha.
 
GOODFELLOWS, 40 South Seventh Street, Minneapolis, (612) 332-4800. Newly installed in a magnificent Art Deco space that once housed a cafeteria, with black glass and silvery grillwork, this longtime local favorite features regional products like walleyed pike and pheasant. The cellar holds dozens of superb American wines at sensible prices. Unhappily, the kitchen sometimes resorts to empty Asian flourishes in pursuit of culinary fashion, and the service is often klutzy.
 
LUCIA'S, 1432 31st Street West, Minneapolis, (612) 825-1572. A double storefront, with uncovered floors and plain tables, this is a Twin Cities Cafe Chez Panisse, with short weekly menus and a commitment to "locally grown, organic and naturally raised ingredients." Killer eggs Benedict with perfectly timed yolks for weekend brunch, on smoked pork tenderloin.
 
QUANG, 2719 Nicollet Avenue, Minneapolis, (612) 870-4739. Take it from someone who learned the hard way, this is real Vietnamese food: a long list of soups, including several kinds of pho; caramelized shrimp and onions on rice, and the best cha gio (spring rolls) I have eaten -- greaseless, crisp and flavorful. Bright, clean and always packed, Quang may be the best of the small Asian and Latin eateries, spawned by Twin Cities ethnicization, that stand shoulder-to-shoulder along Nicollet Avenue, "Eat Street."
 
Attractions
 
FITZGERALD THEATER, 10 East Exchange Street, St. Paul, (651) 290-1221. "A Prairie Home Companion," with the Cajun band Beausoleil featuring Michael Doucet, tomorrow at 4:45 p.m.; with Druha Trava, Czech bluegrass band, Feb. 5 at 4:45 p.m. Tickets: $10, cash only; limited number on sale at 4:15 p.m. the day of performance.
 
MINNESOTA ORCHESTRA, Orchestra Hall, 1111 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, (612) 371-5656. The first half of the program features works by George Gershwin, Richard Rodgers, Kurt Weill, Henry Mancini and John Williams; the second half, Debbie Reynolds performing with the orchestra, conducted by Scott Terrell, tonight and tomorrow night at 8. Tickets: $20.75 to $39.75. "Adventures in Music: A Cowgirl in the Old West," a one-hour family concert conducted by Giancarlo Guerrero, including Copland's 1942 ballet "Rodeo" with original choreography by Ballet Arts Minnesota. Sunday at 2 and 4 p.m. Tickets: $17 to $29.50; $11 to $21.50 for children.
 
ST. PAUL CHAMBER ORCHESTRA, (651) 291-1144. Conducted by Max Pommer. J. S. Bach's Brandenburg Concerto No. 6 and No. 1; Vivaldi's Concerto Grosso in D Minor from "L'Estro Armonico," Concerto in D Minor from "Madrigalesco," Concerto in G for String Orchestra, Concerto in G Minor for Flute from "La Notte"; Tartini's Sinfonia in D. Tonight at 8 at Wooddale Church, 6630 Shady Oak Road, Eden Prairie. Tickets: $17 to $45. Toomorrow night at 8 at St. Paul's United Church of Christ, 900 Summit Avenue, St. Paul. Tickets: $26 to $45.
 
MINNESOTA OPERA, Ordway Center for the Performing Arts, 345 Washington Street, St. Paul, (651) 224-4222. "Der Rosenkavalier" by Richard Strauss. Tonight at 7:30; tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets $25 to $80.
 
GUTHRIE THEATER, 725 Vineland Place, Minneapolis, (612) 377-2224. George Bernard Shaw's "Misalliance." Tonight at 7:30; tomorrow at 1 p.m.; Sunday at 7 p.m. Tickets: $16 to $39; $11 to $34, students and the elderly; $8 to $19.50, childen.
 
WALKER ART CENTER, Vineland Place at Lyndale Avenue South, Minneapolis, (612) 375-7577. Hours: Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $4; $3, students and the elderly.
 
MINNEAPOLIS INSTITUTE OF ARTS, 2400 Third Avenue South, (612) 870-3131. Hours: Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, to 9 p.m. Suggested donation: $3.
 
FREDERICK R. WEISMAN ART MUSEUM, University of Minnesota, 333 East River Road, Minneapolis, (612) 625-9494. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free.
 
JAMES J. HILL HOUSE, 240 Summit Avenue, St. Paul, (651) 297-2555. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Admission: $5; $4, the elderly; $3, children.
 
ST. PAUL WINTER CARNIVAL. Through Feb. 6. Information: (651) 223-4700 or 1-800-488-4023; www.winter-carnival.com.
 
Getting There
 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES: Daily flights from Newark and La Guardia airports to Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. Advance fares require Saturday stay and are subject to availability. The 21-day round-trip advance fare, from $278; 14-day, from $358; seven-day, from $318. The last-minute one-way fare is $619.
 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES: Daily flights from Newark Airport to Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. Advance fares require Sunday stay and are subject to availability. The 21-day round-trip advance fare, from $323; 14-day, from $363; seven-day, from $243. The last-minute one-way fare is $621.
 R. W. APPLE Jr.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Spoonbridge and Cherry," by Claes Oldenburg and Coosje Van Bruggen, at Walker Art Center. (Steve Woit for The New York Times)(pg. E33); Frank Gehry's Weisman Art Museum at the University of Minnesota.; Summit Avenue in St. Paul, where F. Scott Fitzgerald once lived. (Photographs by Steve Woit for The New York Times)(pg. E42)
 
Map of Minnesota highlighting Minneapolis. (pg. E42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (92%); GERMANY (78%); FRANCE (71%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (95%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

COMPANY: ST PAUL WINTER CARNIVAL (77%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS (MINN); ST PAUL (MINN); UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (92%); GERMANY (78%); FRANCE (71%); MINNESOTA, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (95%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; WEATHER; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS CITIES (90%); WEATHER (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); WINTER SPORTS (79%); SKIING (79%); LAKES (70%); MARATHONS (61%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR BOB DYLAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



686 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 17; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW;
Seaside Town Under the Microscope

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
To call "Belfast, Maine," Frederick Wiseman's spellbinding documentary portrait of a small New England coastal town, a romantic movie might be overstating the mood evoked by this stately four-hour film, which bursts with glowing images of fall foliage, autumn sunsets and Halloween decorations. Yet when you come away from the movie (the director's 30th), which today opens the Film Society of Lincoln Center's monthlong survey of Mr. Wiseman's career and is to be shown on PBS next Friday, there is no escaping a sense that in many ways Belfast represents his passionately elegiac vision of an American community that works.
It's not that there is anything especially glamorous about this blue-collar town of 6,000, beyond its picture-postcard landscape and streets lined with handsome clapboard houses. Although the movie has one scene of a high-school class and another of youthful skateboarders, most of the lives it examines are middle-aged and beyond. While some are obviously better off than others, there are no glaring class differences. The closest thing to a mansion on the hill is the large credit card company that is the town's chief employer. 
 But the visit that the film pays to that company's offices, where we observe clerks doing telemarketing from their immaculate cubicles, is surprisingly brief. For what "Belfast, Maine" really wants to do is capture a deeper, more timeless sense of the town as a hardy organism more closely tied to nature than many other more affluent American communities.
Its flourishing credit card company notwithstanding, what seems to hold Belfast together is more spiritual than economic and has to do with the town's austere 1940's and 50's-like culture, economy and way of life.
It is a place whose churchgoing citizens feel a responsibility to care for their own and a town conscious of its history. (In one scene a lecturer remembers Belfast's contribution to the Civil War.) And by cherishing its past, the film implies, Belfast is able in many ways to live in the past. One local minister warns his congregation that we live in "a broken world"; but while there is plenty of suffering in Belfast, the part that is truly broken seems kept at arm's length.
Like many of Mr. Wiseman's other films, the movie is suffused with a compassion that sees everyone in the camera's view as an equally worthy subject. At the same time the movie, which has no narrator and doesn't formally introduce anybody, maintains an aura of scientific detachment.
That's why "Belfast, Maine," like other Wiseman films, also conveys the sometimes slightly unnerving vision of the human anthill put under a magnifying glass.
From Mr. Wiseman's earliest film, "Titicut Follies" (1967), a harsh investigation of a prison for the criminally insane in Massachusetts, he has always been fascinated by institutions as microcosms of that anthill. His films have included two studies of high schools and two of hospitals, as well as portraits of an urban police department, a juvenile court, a Chicago housing development and the welfare system.
By focusing on an entire community instead of one element of the system, "Belfast, Maine" finds the director integrating aspects of his earlier movies into a fuller vision of how everything works together. His choices of which cogs in the social system to emphasize are extremely revealing. The two activities to which the film devotes the most time are people working in factories, stores and restaurants, and social services for the sick and the elderly.
The scenes of fish and potatoes being harvested and processed and of fresh baked goods being prepared have a hypnotic fascination. There's something deeply reassuring in watching how a food product is made from scratch by silent, dedicated workers patiently executing their mechanical tasks in hygienic settings. (The speed with which women slice off the heads and tails of sardines to be packed in cans is remarkable.)
Their patience is mirrored by the forbearance of the social and welfare workers calmly questioning clients about their health, medication, living habits and states of mind. One of the film's most vivid characters is a mentally disturbed, physically ailing man, addicted to tobacco and dependent on welfare, who lives in a metal trailer and can barely lift himself out of his chair to be weighed. Yet in his own way he seems to be flourishing. For in addition to meeting his basic needs, his scrupulous care provides him with feelings of self-worth and social inclusion.
"Belfast, Maine," for all its pastoral beauty, is no seaside idyll. The statistics spouted about smoking and obesity in the area are alarming; many of the people on whom the film focuses are suffering physically and emotionally. The movie repeatedly reminds us how hard life really is. Those attuned to more sophisticated styles will also find Belfast plain and even downright boring.
Which is not to say that Belfast doesn't have an intellectual life. In the film's most moving scene a high-school teacher discoursing on "Moby-Dick" to his enthralled students speaks eloquently about 19th-century whaling, Herman Melville's troubled life, the working class and the tragic hero in literature. It is a startling bravura performance that captures a quality of faith, a spark of passion, that is inherent in all of Mr. Wiseman's mature films, even the most hard-bitten ones.
Handsomely photographed by John Dewey, with every shot of the landscape a beautifully balanced composition, "Belfast, Maine," which is not rated, conveys a deeply emotional sense of place, season and time of day. In contrasting the breathtaking landscape with the troubled lives of many of those living there, it reminds us that the fleeting beauties of the natural world -- the simple pleasures available to all -- are among life's deepest consolations.
 
BELFAST, MAINE
 
Produced, edited and directed by Frederick Wiseman; director of photography, John Davey. Presented by WNET, New York. At the Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, today at 1 and 6:15 p.m. and tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. as part of a Wiseman retrospective. On PBS next Friday night (Channel 13, New York, at 9). Running time: 248 minutes. This film is not rated.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from "Belfast, Maine," Frederick Wiseman's documentary portrait of a New England coastal town. (Margot Balboni)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BELFAST, MAINE (DOCUMENTARY FILM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER; PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (91%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (83%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER; PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (83%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST (MAINE); UNITED STATES (95%); MAINE, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; TELEVISION DOCUMENTARY FILMS (91%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); FILM (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (79%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); TELEMARKETING (73%); CREDIT CARDS (66%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (66%); HALLOWEEN (57%); 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN; WISEMAN, FREDERICK FREDERICK WISEMAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



687 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON FRIDAY/Transportation;
Do Additional Roads Increase Congestion?

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FACED with a chronically congested two-lane road, many highway departments send in construction crews to expand it. Within a few years, they have a chronically congested four-lane road instead.
As congestion increases, many people are calling for bigger roads and bridges, but some engineers and researchers who oppose highway construction say those new miles of lanes will draw new traffic, in a phenomenon that they call 'induced travel." 
 Dozens of transportation experts from around the country spent three hours debating the topic at the recent annual meeting here of the Transportation Research Board. They argued about definitions and about what was the cause and what was the effect. They did not agree on how much of a problem induced travel really is. They did, however, lay out reasons to suspect that it is a problem.
In theory, a new lane is good, because it reduces the cost of travel. This is because, according to one paper presented at the meeting, a new road or new miles of lanes reduce congestion.
"At some level of congestion, any given driver will choose to avoid dealing with that congestion, either in favor of an alternative route, an alternative mode, changing the departure time of the trip, a shorter trip to a similar activity, or avoiding the trip entirely," said the paper by Lewis M. Fulton, a researcher at the International Energy Agency in Paris, and three colleagues, two American and one British. But if the "cost" of that travel is reduced, they wrote, it is like cutting the price of an item in a supermarket; demand for it will suddenly rise.
Or, as a Kevin Costner movie once surmised in a different context, "If you build it, they will come."
Lawrence Barr, of the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center, a Transportation Department research office in Cambridge, Mass., said census data showed that of the time drivers saved with new roads, they spent 30 to 50 percent of it driving farther.
In their study, Mr. Fulton and his colleagues used figures on the growth in road-miles and the growth in vehicle-miles traveled in Maryland, Virginia, the District of Columbia and North Carolina. Deciding which is the cause and which is the effect is complicated, the authors acknowledged, because roads are built either in anticipation of new traffic or as a result of increased traffic. Or the roads may themselves stimulate more development, leading to congestion.
But the study found that in the short run, adding lanes would increase demand for road space by 20 to 60 percent. In the long run, it could raise demand by 100 percent.
One result, Mr. Fulton said, is that a city that expands a road to eliminate an area of stop-and-go traffic -- where idling cars produce extra pollution -- may be taking the wrong tack. "You're not going to reduce either emissions or congestion as much as you think, because you're going to trigger this additional travel," he said.
But others suggested that if a new road filled quickly with traffic, it could be relieving congestion elsewhere, and that no road in a network could be examined in isolation.
Some highway engineers doubt that the induced-travel phenomenon exists, or say that if it does, it is not a big cause of congestion. The number of miles driven rises by 2 or 3 percent a year, but beyond roads there are many other reasons, including population growth, more women in the work force and an economic boom that has raised the number of cars in each household.
Two researchers at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, David T. Hartgen and Daniel O. Curley, studied the 65 largest metropolitan areas from 1990 to 1997, to see which had built beltways in that period. Beltways are often linked to sprawl, but the researchers found no links between beltway construction and traffic growth.
"No-belt and partial-belt cites have grown faster in area, population and employment than full-belt and mostly belt cities," Mr. Hartgen said. All of the cities, with beltways or without, became less densely populated, meaning that people were dispersing to a larger area.
One speaker from outside academia, Neil J. Pederson, planning director of the Maryland State Highway Administration, said that induced travel clearly was taking place, but that recent experience showed this could not be used as a tool for development. Maryland had built improved roads in its western panhandle, the part squeezed between West Virginia and Pennsylvania, to try to stimulate economic growth there, but the growth failed to follow. "Providing highway capacity will not in and of itself cause growth to occur if there is not latent demand," he said.
And the county in his state that has shown the greatest growth in the last 10 years, St. Mary's, south of Washington, has had no new highways at all.
Over all in the state, travel is growing twice as fast as the population and about 10 times faster than the number of lane-miles, he said. One factor driving growth was a loss of jobs in Baltimore and growth in the Washington area, leading people to drive between the two urban areas.
Mr. Pederson said that Maryland backed "smart growth," an effort to limit congestion and encourage a balanced transportation system, but he gave two reasons that growth must include new roads. One is that if the highways in an urban area become too congested, developers will start building farther and farther out, which will make people drive even more. The other, he said, is that developers would not build offices and shops near transit stations unless they also had highway access, since the commercial buildings have to be served by trucks.
 
Teenagers Just Say 'Whoa'
Norwegian officials say they have found a way to cut teenage highway deaths substantially: teach them to be back-seat drivers.
A campaign called Speak Out urges young passengers to complain if the driver goes too fast or behaves recklessly. Studying a rural coastal county, Sogn og Fjordane, which began the program in 1993, researchers found that the number of passengers from 16 to 19 years old who were killed or injured fell by about 30 percent. The number of drivers in that age group who were killed or injured did not change, however.
The program, including videos, lectures and T-shirts and key rings with the Speak Out slogan, is a version of "Friends don't let friends drive drunk," but focuses on how people behave once they are in cars.
Rune Elvik, a researcher at the Institute of Transport Economics in Oslo, said that the campaign might have made some drivers act more prudently and might have persuaded some teenage passengers not to ride with drivers who take risks.
Mr. Elvik, in an e-mail reply to the question of whether it was difficult to encourage teenagers to criticize each other or older drivers, said that they were quite willing.
"The campaign did not preach morals," he said. "It simply appealed to the fact that many young girls are afraid of riding with slightly drunk boys who drive very fast. The girls are not impressed by such behavior, contrary to what many boys think." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARD TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARD (83%); TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARD (83%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (54%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARD TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARD (83%); TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARD (83%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (54%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) HIGHWAYS & STREETS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); EMISSIONS (65%); WRITERS (64%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L LEWIS M FULTON (70%); DAVID T HARTGEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



688 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 23; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2227 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:
Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on Page 6.
 
Now Playing
 
* "ANY GIVEN SUNDAY," starring Al Pacino, Cameron Diaz, Dennis Quaid, James Woods and Jamie Foxx. Directed by Oliver Stone (R, 160 minutes). Mr. Stone's brawling, hyper-macho professional football film has enough in-the-thick-of-it playing-field action to satisfy the fantasies of most armchair players. In the style of Mr. Stone's "Wall Street," the movie is also a crude morality play that pits the old ways against the new with the veteran coach Tony D'Amato (Mr. Pacino) embodying tradition and a young hotshot quarterback, Willie Beamen (Mr. Foxx), the new. Although the acting is uneven (Ms. Diaz is disappointing as a tough team owner), and the final scenes are shamelessly "Rocky"-ish, the movie delivers a credible, action-charged vision of the frenzied world of professional sports as a metaphor for the volatility of American culture (Stephen Holden). 

 * "BOYS DON'T CRY," starring Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny. Directed by Kimberly Peirce (R, 114 minutes). This stunning debut feature tells the strange and resonant story of Brandon Teena, who despite being born Teena Brandon went on to create a charismatic identity as a young man. Brandon's ultimately wrenching tale may sound tabloid-ready, but on screen it turns into Theodore Dreiser's idea of American tragedy. The film makes it hauntingly real and even tenderly romantic, with the astonishing acting needed to make it work. One of last year's best (Janet Maslin).
 
* "THE END OF THE AFFAIR," starring Ralph Fiennes, Julianne Moore, Stephen Rea and Ian Hart. Directed by Neil Jordan (R, 105 minutes). Mr. Jordan's intoxicating version of Graham Greene's 1951 novel, in which an illicit affair becomes a far greater gamble than either lover could have imagined. For this fearlessly eclectic filmmaker, this is one more intelligent, brooding love story with a secret twist. Mr. Fiennes and Ms. Moore breathe life into it with a dreamy, erotic intensity that in no way trivializes the film's underlying ideas about religious faith. Period detail (the setting is London in the mid-1940's) is sumptuously heightened by the inspired costume designer Sandy Powell ("Shakespeare in Love") (Maslin).
 
"FANTASIA/2000," with James Levine and the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and introductions by Steve Martin, Bette Midler, Mr. Levine, Itzhak Perlman, James Earl Jones, Angela Lansbury, Quincy Jones and Penn and Teller. Various directors (G, 75 minutes). The new millennial version of Disney's 1940 groundbreaking fusion of animation and classical music includes seven new segments and keeps one from the original film (the wonderful "Sorcerer's Apprentice," starring Mickey Mouse). Despite the science-fiction title and the Imax-size screen on which it is shown, "Fantasia/2000" is more backward-looking than futuristic. The two best segments are "Rhapsody in Blue," a witty Manhattan-in-the-Jazz-Age homage to the caricaturist Al Hirschfeld set to the music of Gershwin, and the finale (set to Stravinsky's "Firebird Suite") in which a cometlike sprite whooshes around the globe explosively creating, destroying and renewing the planet's life forms. Celebrity introductions lend the film the feel of a deluxe corporate promotion. At the Sony Imax Theater, Broadway at 68th Street, Manhattan (Holden).
 
"GIRL, INTERRUPTED," starring Winona Ryder and Angelina Jolie. Directed by James Mangold (R, 120 minutes). Except for being several years too old for the role, Winona Ryder, an actress who oozes high-strung intelligence, is ideally cast as Susanna Kaysen, a precollege-age girl who lands in a Cambridge mental institution in 1967 after a halfhearted suicide attempt. (The movie is based on Ms. Kaysen's memoir.) The period details are perfect, and Ms. Ryder has the courage to make her character a pain in the neck. But the small, introspective movie is nearly stolen by Ms. Jolie as a charismatic, brutally truth-telling sociopath who becomes Susanna's best friend (Holden).
 
"THE GREEN MILE," starring Tom Hanks, Michael Clarke Duncan, David Morse, Doug Hutchison, Sam Rockwell and Bonnie Hunt. Written and directed by Frank Darabont (R, 180 minutes). In adapting the death row drama that Stephen King wrote in multiple installments, the director of "The Shawshank Redemption" could have managed more economy and fewer talky bits of business around the cellblock. Still, this lengthy film is vivid and well played. Smooth ensemble acting builds up to the discovery that a gigantic condemned man (Mr. Duncan) is a prisoner with very special abilities, which gives the film its mixture of religious overtones and mild horror. Mr. Hanks, as a wry Southern prison guard, is so unaffectedly good that it's redundant to say so (Maslin).
 
"HOLY SMOKE," starring Kate Winslet and Harvey Keitel. Directed by Jane Campion (R, 95 minutes). Having roamed so gorgeously through North Africa as a young hippie mother in "Hideous Kinky," Ms. Winslet this time appears in India as Ruth Barron, a headstrong young Australian seeking enlightenment. Eventually Ruth's mother coaxes her home, where a "cult exiter" named P. J. (Mr. Keitel) is waiting to wean Ruth away from her Indian guru. But as the film moves from its early mix of rapture and humor into this more serious, confrontational stage, it runs into trouble. It doesn't help that Ms. Winslet's obvious strength and beauty leave Mr. Keitel's P. J. looking overmatched (Maslin).
 
* "THE HURRICANE," starring Denzel Washington. Directed by Norman Jewison (R, 120 minutes). The life story of Hurricane Carter, a middleweight contender who spent nearly 20 years in prison for a triple murder he didn't commit, is a big, schmaltzy ballad of a movie redeemed by Mr. Washington's moving, bone-deep portrayal of the boxer from Paterson, N.J. But the movie plays fast and loose with the facts, giving far too much credit to the members of a Canadian commune who took up Mr. Carter's cause and all but eliminating his heroic co-defendant John Artis from the story. And the minor characters are either saints or monsters. Yet the story of a man heroically fighting his demons and winning his freedom is still inspiring (Holden).
 
"THE LIFE AND TIMES OF HANK GREENBERG," directed by Aviva Kempner (not rated, 90 minutes). This unabashed valentine to baseball's Hall of Fame slugger demonstrates how little mankind and some of its sports figures have advanced since the 1930's and 40's and reminds us how the persistence of bigotry stains a nation founded on ideals like religious tolerance. The 30's and 40's were the heyday of Greenberg, a son of Jewish immigrants who came out of the Bronx to star with the Detroit Tigers, threaten Babe Ruth's home run record and become the first man to win most valuable player awards at two positions, first base and left field. In blazing his trail into the Hall of Fame, the tall, handsome Greenberg became a target of anti-Semites. But his stardom, his innate decency, his work ethic and his World War II record made him a beacon of hope to many Jews. Taken as a whole, the documentary is faithful to its title, valuable as history and resonant with meaning for today (Lawrence Van Gelder).
 
"MAGNOLIA," starring Tom Cruise, Melinda Dillon, Philip Seymour Hoffman, William H. Macy, Julianne Moore, John C. Reilly and Jason Robards. Written and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson (R, 180 minutes). In "Magnolia" the colossally talented Mr. Anderson has set up an artfully orchestrated symphony of intersecting L.A. stories, with many of the cast members from his "Boogie Nights" assembled to form a charismatic ensemble. The movie is saved from its own worst ideas by the intimacy of the performances. Its single biggest surprise is Tom Cruise in the role of a strutting, obscenity-spouting cult figure named Frank Mackey (Maslin).
 
"PLAY IT TO THE BONE," starring Woody Harrelson, Antonio Banderas and Lolita Davidovich. Directed by Ron Shelton (R, 124 minutes). This screwball sports comedy stars Mr. Harrelson and Mr. Banderas as fading middleweight boxers and best friends summoned at the last minute to fight each other as the opening act for a Las Vegas heavyweight bout. The formulaic road movie follows them with their pal and mutual ex-girlfriend (Ms. Davidovich) on their wisecracking way from Los Angeles to Las Vegas, where they fight a brutal match. The dialogue has sass, and the filmmaker's jaundiced vision of the professional boxing world is very knowing, but the relationships don't track (Holden).
 
* "STUART LITTLE," starring Geena Davis, Hugh Laurie and Jonathan Lipnicki. Directed by Rob Minkoff (PG, 92 minutes). E. B. White's 1945 children's classic has been adapted into a lovely family film about a little mouse (with the voice of Michael J. Fox) who is adopted by humans but runs afoul of their fluffy white Persian cat, Snowbell (Nathan Lane). The movie creates an enchanted storybook version of New York and has what may be the most exciting toy-boat race (in Central Park) ever filmed. Thanks to Mr. Lane's sly, wise-guy vocal impersonation, Snowbell nearly steals a movie that is funny and sweet but never cloying (Holden).
 
* "THE TALENTED MR. RIPLEY," starring Matt Damon, Jude Law, Gwyneth Paltrow, Cate Blanchett and Philip Seymour Hoffman. Written and directed by Anthony Minghella (R, 135 minutes). There are diabolically smart surprises wherever you care to look in this glittering thriller. Proving that the brilliance of "The English Patient" was no fluke, Mr. Minghella shapes a hypnotic, sensually charged adaptation of Patricia High smith's fascinatingly reptilian murder story. The traffic-stopping cast includes Mr. Damon as the dangerous chameleon of the title and, in a star-making role, the English actor Jude Law as a rich dilettante who exerts a homoerotic magnetism. Ms. Paltrow plays the odd woman out with the shrewdness of a fine character actress, while Ms. Blanchett makes the delirious most of her role as a needy American post-debutante. As the story's odious playboy-snob, Mr. Hoffman is scene-stealingly wonderful. Gorgeously photographed in Italy by John Seale (Maslin).
 
* "TITUS," starring Anthony Hopkins, Jessica Lange, Alan Cumming, Harry Lennix and Jonathan Rhys Meyers. Directed by Julie Taymor (R, 160 minutes). Ms. Taymor, the theater director and puppeteer who created transfixing stage pictures in "The Lion King" and "Juan Darien," has turned Shakespeare's goriest tragedy, "Titus Andronicus," into a powerful contemplation of murderous revenge enacted throughout history. Mr. Hopkins is ghoulishly funny and tragic as the title character, whose political stupidity sets in motion a devastating chain reaction of killing, torture and retaliation. Ms. Lange is Tamora, the captured Goth empress who strikes back. Although the movie's British theatrical and American film acting styles don't mesh, Ms. Taymor's vision is realized with a shattering force in time-traveling imagery that blends ancient Rome with Mussolini's Italy and contemporary cyberpunk flash (Holden).
 
* "TOPSY-TURVY," starring Allan Corduner and Jim Broadbent. Directed by Mike Leigh (R, 161 minutes). Mr. Leigh's grandly entertaining "Topsy-Turvy" is one of those films that create a mix of erudition, pageantry and delectable acting opportunities, much as "Shakespeare in Love" did last year. Instead of a love-struck young playwright, it presents the curiously matched personalities of the librettist William Schwenk Gilbert and the composer Arthur Sullivan in the midst of a robust, knowing, frequently hilarious look at the musical theater over which they held sway (Maslin).
 
Film Series
 
"THE AMERICAN PLACE: LANDSCAPE IN THE EARLY WESTERN (AND A FEW LATER CLASSICS)." An opportunity for a new look at the Old West is at hand at the Museum of Modern Art, where a monthlong series highlighted by early westerns is in progress. Spanning the history of the genre, the series features more than 50 films in 30 programs, including works that extend from Edwin Porter, D. W. Griffith, Thomas H. Ince, John Ford, Charles Chaplin and Allan Dwan to Victor Fleming, Victor Seastrom, Sam Peckinpah, Mel Brooks, Clint Eastwood and Jim Jarmusch. A choice double bill is offered at 6:30 tonight. One half consists of "Blazing the Trail" (1912), a 12-minute pioneers-versus-Indians tale directed by Ince, a producer, director, screenwriter, actor and visionary who brought spectacular action and high standards to the western. The other half is "The Searchers" (1956), Ford's magnificent and influential account of a dogged seven-year hunt for a girl kidnapped by Indians. The cast includes John Wayne, Jeffrey Hunter, Vera Miles, Ward Bond and Natalie Wood. Continuing through Feb. 24, at the Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, the series, is free with museum admission: $10 for adults, $6.50 for students and people 65 or older; free for visitors under 16 accompanied by an adult. Pay what you wish on Fridays from 4:30 to 8:30 p.m. Screening information: (212) 708-9400 (Van Gelder).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Home run hero: Hank Greenberg from Aviva Kempner's "Life and Times of Hank Greenberg." (Greenberg Family Collection); Raging bulls: Woody Harrelson, left, and Antonio Banderas in Ron Shelton's "Play It to the Bone." (Sidney Baldwin/Touchstone Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); ATHLETES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



689 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: John Hancock Makes Debut On Big Board

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Shares of John Hancock Financial Services began trading modestly on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, as expected, but executives of the former policyholder-owned insurer got what they most wanted: shares to use as currency to buy up competitors. And they immediately began reviewing their shopping list.
"We would look at anything that would help us with our lines of variable life insurance, annuities or long-term care or mutual funds," said Stephen L. Brown, the chief executive of the former John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, "any potential acquisitions that would help us gain scale in those businesses." 
 Mr. Brown, who got the company off to a flying start with three cash deals in the last year, said he would look mainly at potential quarry in the United States and Canada. But he said that Hancock also hoped to expand through acquisition in Asia, where it is already doing business in several countries.
Bankers for Hancock sold 102 million shares of the company at $17 each, to raise $1.734 billion before trading began yesterday morning. The stock opened at $17.75, rose to $18.3125 and fell back to close at $17.625.
Yet the stock was one of the most actively traded on the Big Board, with a turnover of more than 32 million shares. "You probably had a lot of what you call flippers, people who buy the stock and sell right away if it goes up a bit, or if it doesn't go up, sell and go on to the next deal," said Ira L. Zuckerman, an analyst at Nutmeg Securities in Westport, Conn.
By the company's calculation, the $17 a share was a little above book value -- higher than the initial price obtained by some competing mutual companies as they converted to shareholder ownership, but less than the 1.5 times book value at which many shareholder-owned companies are trading.
Still, Hancock executives said they were pleased. Insurance and banking stocks have been depressed as a result of rising interest rates and Hancock's performance has been, like that of other mutual companies, somewhat below the pace of the rest of the insurance sector.
Earlier this month, Hancock set a price range of $16 to $18 a share for its stock, scaling back from initial hopes of getting as much as $25 a share.
Hancock turned another 229.7 million shares over to its roughly three million policyholders for their stake in the company. That put a total of 331 million John Hancock shares, worth about $5.97 billion, into the market in the first phase of what may be an avalanche of new insurance stocks; three other big mutual insurers are expected to go public in the next year or so. Metropolitan Life Insurance, for instance, is expected to issue 838 million shares with a market value of perhaps $15.92 billion in late March.
All those shares, in a market of insurance issues previously valued at $90 billion, are expected to put further downward pressure on all insurance stocks.
Despite the lackluster price performance, Tom Burnett, the president of Merger Insight, a financial research firm in New York, called the Hancock offering "a very significant financial event."
"These guys are going to be a major acquirer now that they have stock to use as currency," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (96%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (71%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO; JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (96%); JOHN HANCOCK LIFE INSURANCE CO (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); METLIFE INC (57%); BIG BOARD (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO; JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES BIG BOARD (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; LIFE INSURANCE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); LIFE INSURANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); VARIABLE LIFE INSURANCE (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B STEPHEN L BROWN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



690 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: The Phantom Surplus

BYLINE: By Robert D. Reischauer; Robert D. Reischauer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, was the director of the Congressional Budget Office from 1989 to 1995.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Congressional Budget Office's new projections have whetted the appetite of many a lawmaker who feels starved after a decade of fiscal dieting. According to the budget office's estimates, the surplus could be as large as $1.9 trillion over the next decade.
With such a large surplus, politicians may be unable to resist the urge to splurge. Tax cuts, prescription drugs for the elderly, beefed-up defense, help for the medically uninsured, expanded aid for education suddenly may all seem affordable. And many will be comforted by the fact that we can pay down the national debt with the additional $2.3 trillion surplus that the Social Security system will generate in the next decade. 
 But before expectations run amok, some realistic accounting is in order. As the budget office is careful to point out, the $1.9 trillion surplus will materialize only if Congress adheres to the spending caps enacted in 1997 or freezes discretionary spending for 10 years, a policy many Republicans have endorsed.
Let's be clear. The polar ice caps will melt and flood New York before Congress accepts either of these starvation diets. To stay within the spending caps, Congress would have to cut discretionary spending -- programs like defense, Head Start, and the F.B.I. -- by about 11 percent.
Not that tough? Well, both the president and the Republicans want to boost military spending. Even if defense spending rose no faster than inflation, other discretionary items would have to be cut by close to one-fourth to stay under the caps. If overall discretionary spending was frozen, allowing the military budget keep pace with inflation would mean other discretionary programs would have to be reduced by an unrealistic 40 percent by 2010.
So let's do some realistic budget forecasting. If Congress allows discretionary spending to keep pace with inflation, the surplus over the next decade will shrink from $1.9 trillion to $838 billion, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Even that pace of growth may prove to be unrealistically low. During its decade-long jihad to balance the budget, Congress let non-defense discretionary spending grow by 20 percent. If Congress holds the growth of defense spending down to the rate of inflation in the next decade, but lets other discretionary spending grow as rapidly as it did during the 1990's, the surplus shrivels to about $300 billion.
Moreover, there are other, unavoidable budgetary demands that the official projections do not take into account. First, the budget office assumes that Congress will not renew 21 provisions of the tax code that will expire in the next 10 years. If Congress extends these provisions -- as it has routinely done -- revenues will be reduced by $100 billion over the decade, bringing the projected surplus down to $200 billion.
The budget office also assumes that more Americans will be hit by the Alternative Minimum Tax. Enacted in 1969, this tax was intended to ensure that wealthy Americans paid some income taxes, regardless of their use of tax shelters. This provision, however, is not indexed for inflation, meaning that over the next decade, it will snare increasing numbers of middle-income families. Last year, 1.3 million households paid this tax; by 2010, some 17 million households will be struggling with it. Congress will most likely adjust this tax, costing the federal treasury between $30 billion and $80 billion over the decade. The $1.9 trillion surplus now looks more like a $120 billion to $170 billion surplus.
Finally, Congress will face continued pressures from farmers and Medicare providers who feel that they bore the brunt of past budget cuts. In 1999 and 2000, Congress dished out more than $6 billion each year in "emergency" aid to farmers; in 1999, Congress also gave relief to hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers. Expect more payments -- some $50 billion -- to these groups in the future over the next decade.
So what does all this do to our surplus? Expect it to be somewhere around $100 billion. That's certainly much better than anyone expected a few years ago, but it's a far cry from the numbers being tossed about by lawmakers and presidential candidates. Let's be happy, but realistic. We shouldn't let fantasies about huge surpluses lead lawmakers to spend money that will never materialize. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STARVATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (71%); AGING (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (56%); 

PERSON: REISCHAUER, ROBERT D

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



691 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Most TreasuryPrices Fall on Expectation of Higher Rates

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices, with the exception of the 30-year bond, were lower after the December durable goods report showed factory orders had their largest increase in five months.
The report reinforced market expectations that the Federal Reserve will increase short-term interest rates in the coming months to slow economic expansion and keep inflation from accelerating -- thus hurting fixed income investments. 
 At the end of the day, the long bond was up 1322/32, to 94 218/32, as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.52 percent, from 6.57 percent on Wednesday.
With shorter maturities down in price yesterday, the long maturity managed to hang onto the gains made over the last four days. The long bond was benefiting from optimism among market participants that the central bank will remain vigilant about inflation. It was also helped by the dwindling supply of longer-term securities, after the Treasury cut its sales. The Treasury will buy back some longer-term debt later this year.
Yields of shorter maturities, the most vulnerable of the Treasuries to expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise rates, gained after the report showed durable goods orders surged 4.1 percent last month. Orders gained 1 percent in November. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News had expected a 1 percent gain for December.
Treasuries were restrained by initial jobless claims of 266,000 last week, which were less than the 277,000 expected by economists, a result that hinted at inflationary pressures.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said bond market participants overwhelmingly expect monetary policy to be tightened another 25 basis points at a policy-setting meeting this Tuesday "as the Fed continues on its pre-emptive anti-inflationary course in the face of what it considers to be excessively strong economic growth amid extremely low employment."
Two other reports are due to be released today: the Employment Cost Index (E.C.I.) for December and the initial estimates of real gross domestic product growth and the gross domestic product price index for the fourth quarter.
"Wage pressures have been rather modest up to this point," Mr. Fine said, "but part of the reason is that we are currently in a demand-pull inflation environment as opposed to a cost-pull situation, which means that wage upticks are likely to lag, rather than lead, overall increases in inflation. As a result many market participants will tend to put more emphasis on the expected continued strength in the broadest measure of economic growth and its price component, although the E.C.I. will hardly be overlooked."
The economy is expected to show a 5.2 percent annual growth rate in the final three months of 1999, according to some economists, who also expect the Employment Cost Index, which measures wages, salaries and benefits, to show an increase of 0.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 1999, from 0.8 percent in the third quarter.
Elsewhere, the inversion in the Treasury yield curve has become more pronounced, as the 30-year bond continues to gain relative to the rest of the maturities as a result of the Treasury's announced buyback program.
After having its worst year on record in 1999, the long bond has earned investors 2.4 percent in the last week alone, including reinvested interest payments. Last year it fell almost 13 percent
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields"
The graph shows the average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BLOOMBERG LP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



692 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Not X'es, Not O's, It's the Dot-Coms That Matter

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
Whether or not Super Bowl XXXIV is remembered for the game that the St. Louis Rams and the Tennessee Titans play on Sunday, it will certainly enter the annals of advertising as Dot-Com Bowl I.
But will consumers recall the commercial assault as a dot-comedy of errors or as a turning point for dot-coms on the road to respectability? That's the $135 million question -- the approximate cost of all the commercials to run during the game. 
 Seventeen of the 30-plus companies spending record sums to buy commercial time during the game to generate attention and awareness will be Web sites and electronic commerce entrepreneurs with unfamiliar names like Computer.com, Epidemic.com, Healtheon/ WebMD, Lifeminders.com, Netpliance.com, OurBeginning.com, Oxygen Media and Pets.com. Many have never advertised anywhere before, much less on a Super Bowl, the premier event on the Madison Avenue calendar.
By comparison, only three dot-coms advertised on the Super Bowl last year. The goal of the newcomers is to duplicate the success enjoyed by the dot-coms in 1999; two, Hotjobs.com and the Monster.com unit of TMP Worldwide, are returning to see if lightning can strike twice.
The stakes have never been higher for companies gambling that the value of the impressions they make by exposing themselves to the 130 million or so Americans watching the game -- typically the largest audience of the year for any television program -- will justify the high cost of commercial time. The biggest threat is that consumers will be unable to distinguish one dot-com from another, turning what was intended as a shrewd strategy to be noticed into a marketing blunder.
"The dot-coms could negate each other and have a hard time cutting through," said Robert Lachky, vice president for brand management at Anheuser-Busch in St. Louis, the only beer advertiser during the game.
"For us, the leader in our industry, coming off a record year, the Super Bowl is money well spent," he added. "For the dot-coms, the issue is who will have a distinctly branded message." Anheuser-Busch is paying an estimated $17 million to run commercials in every quarter for Budweiser and Bud Light beers -- almost $30 million if production, agency and other costs are included.
"The Super Bowl is a tough place to stand out, period," said Ted Sann, co-chief executive and chief creative officer at the BBDO New York unit of BBDO Worldwide, the Omnicom Group agency that is creating Super Sunday spots for Federal Express; Mountain Dew, the soft drink sold by the Pepsi-Cola division of PepsiCo, and Visa.
Mr. Sann continued: "I was in San Francisco a month ago, driving up 101, and there was a billboard every two feet for a dot-com. It was a blur. If it's a blur on the Super Bowl, you're going to be throwing your money away."
Advertisers, dot-coms or not-coms, are spending an average of about $2.2 million for each 30-second spot -- a heart-stopping $73,333 a second. That's 37.5 percent more than a 30-second commercial cost during Super Bowl XXXIII in 1999 and is believed to be the largest year-to-year increase ever.
The demand from dot-coms, amplified by the booming economy, led ABC to charge the record rates; some spots sold for as much as $3 million apiece.
Some see the dot-com stampede as the logical extension of the race into traditional media by Internet marketers, a phenomenon that anyone who watched television, listened to the radio or read a newspaper between Halloween and Christmas could not help but notice.
The frenetic demand for commercial time in the fourth quarter of the Super Bowl game was initially perceived as "a one-trick pony," said Marv Goldsmith, president for sales and marketing at the ABC Television Network in New York, part of the ABC unit of the Walt Disney Company. "But now we're going to have the highest gross in the history of our company for a first quarter," fueled by the superior Super Bowl ad sales.
"The dot-coms are coming in as strong as they are for the same reason as our basic, bedrock advertisers," Mr. Goldsmith said, "to build brand awareness, to introduce new campaigns."
"I'd like to have a Super Bowl once a month," he added.
But others worry that the dot-com mania is a sign of outlandish excess in the way that wild gyrations in the prices of mediocre stocks are a sign of a market top. They wonder whether this might signal the beginning of the end of the widespread presence of Internet marketers in mass-media advertising.
"A lot of these companies we haven't heard a lot about," said Norm Rickeman, partner in the media and entertainment group at Andersen Consulting in Minneapolis. "They want to get their names out there, make a big splash."
He questioned the wisdom of this strategy for some dot-coms.
"What if the commercial drives someone to a site and the experience is not what it should be?" Mr. Rickeman asked. "If you don't deliver, maybe you would have been better off spending the $3 million" on improving the computer user's experience at the site.
Other signs indicate that some players in Dot-Com Bowl I might not be ready for prime time.
For instance, executives at Lifeminders.com, which offers a personalized e-mail service, decided to buy Super Bowl time in late November. But their agency refused to create a spot, complaining that there wasn't enough time to produce anything worth running on such a big event.
"It's not to say you can't do things fast, but we didn't feel comfortable that we could deliver our best product," said David Lubars, co-president and creative director at Fallon McElligott in Minneapolis, the Lifeminders.com agency. "It was not in our best interest, or the client's."
So the Lifeminders.com executives made a low-budget spot on their own. Crude type on screen proclaims, "This is the worst commercial on the Super Bowl."
Many dot-coms may be vying for that dubious distinction, and not on purpose.
"If you're putting a disproportionate amount of your ad spending behind a Super Bowl commercial, and you're just putting your name out there without saying what kind of company you are, it's not enough," said G. Michael Sievert, vice president for marketing at the E*Trade Group, the online brokerage firm, which will run three commercials during the game and be the first dot-com to sponsor a Super Bowl halftime show.
"As people focus on dot-coms, it plays to our advantage," Mr. Sievert asserted, "because we've been pounding away at our message, the value of taking charge of your own financial future, for a long time" -- well, a long time in Internet time, since September 1998.
"For a lot of these companies, the Super Bowl might work," he added, "and it might not." The E*Trade spots, part of an offbeat campaign by Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, an Omnicom agency, include one mocking the expectations for Super Bowl commercials. The deliberately amateurish spot, featuring a monkey, ends with this cheeky rejoinder: "Well, we just wasted two million bucks. What are you doing with your money?"
One dot-com, Computer.com, is spending more than half the $5.8 million that it raised during its initial round of venture capital financing to run three commercials before and during the game to promote the start-up of its Web site, which is aimed at novice computer users. The spots were created by Merkley Newman Harty in New York, part of Omnicom.
"I had to write the check, so I took a big, deep breath," said Mike Ford, president at Computer.com in Maynard, Mass., "but it's the only day of the year when everybody watches the commercials."
Mike Zapolin, chief executive at Computer.com, chimed in: "Since our idea is to make computing easy for the 80 percent of the people who say they don't feel comfortable with technology, we're talking to a huge number of people. And the Super Bowl gives you 100 million-plus people watching your commercial in a positive environment."
That appealed even to dot-coms that, unlike Computer.com, are seeking more sophisticated consumers.
"It's certainly the largest audience we've ever reached," said Randy Kilgore, executive director for marketing and sales at The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition in New York, a unit of Dow Jones & Company, that will run a commercial for WSJ.com by Arnold Communications in Boston, part of Snyder Communications.
Being one of many dot-com advertisers, said Neil Budde, editor and publisher at WSJ.com, "actually helps show the brand is part of the dot-com world, a big player in the dot-com space."
Conventional advertisers appear to be comfortable with so much dot-company. "We've got to stand out regardless of who else is advertising," said Dawn Hudson, senior vice president for strategy and marketing at the Pepsi-Cola Company in Purchase, N.Y. The company will run two spots for Mountain Dew by BBDO New York during the game.
"The dot-coms, like any packaged goods marketer, have to be remembered and give the broad audience an idea of what their brands are about," she said. "The only difference is the consumer isn't bumping into them in the supermarket, so the better dot-com commercials will give viewers a feeling of what the site experience is."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A MONKEY: A deliberately amateurish spot for E*Trade, above, declares: "Well, we just wasted two million bucks."; A PUPPET: The Sock Puppet, left, asks people to stay home with their pets by getting everything they need from Pets.com. (Associated Press); AN ICONIC HAND: A commercial for Hotjobs.com, the job-search site on the World Wide Web, introduces as a character a hand that is modeled after the five-fingered icon that is seen on computer screens.; (Football photograph by Jim Cummins/FPG)(pg. C1); A Super Bowl ad for Mountain Dew portrays a Dew drinker going to great lengths to reclaim a soda from a mischievous cheetah. Advertisers are spending an average of about $2.2 million for each 30-second spot. (pg. C9)
 
Chart: "The Dot-Com Bowl"
ABC is charging an average of $2.2 million for each 30 seconds of commercial time during Super Bowl XXXIV on Sunday, with some advertisers paying $3 million. Seventeen dot-coms (l) bought time, compared with three last year. The final schedule is subject to the usual last-minute juggling. The chart shows which companies bought air time, and what quarter of the game their ad will appear. (Sources: Company reports; agency reports; Advertising Age; Adweek)
 
Graph: "$73,333 a Second"
The average cost of a 30-second television commercial for the Super Bowl has tripled since 1990. The graph shows the rise of the advertising rate. (Source: The Myers Report; Competitive Media Reporting)(pg. C9)

 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); MWW (NYSE) (55%); PEP (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (82%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (82%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ABC INC OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (82%); IPET HOLDINGS INC (56%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (55%); BBDO NEW YORK (51%); PEPSICO INC (50%); ST LOUIS RAMS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ABC INC ST LOUIS RAMS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING; FOOTBALL; SUPER BOWL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (85%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (77%); BRANDING (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (68%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (63%); SOFT DRINKS (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



693 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Orders for Durable Goods Post Sharp Gain

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
A leap in demand for airplanes and electronic equipment pushed up orders for big-ticket goods by 4.1 percent in December, helping manufacturers to their best year since 1997.
For all of 1999, orders for durable goods -- items expected to last at least three years -- rose 7.1 percent. The performance matched the annual gain recorded two years ago and followed a 3.6 percent increase in 1998, the Commerce Department said today. 
 "The numbers clearly show that the manufacturing sector is very healthy right now," said David Huether, an economist with the National Association of Manufacturers.
Economists said the strong showing for the year and for December largely reflected the vibrant economy that is behind the strong demand from American businesses and consumers for expensive manufactured goods, particularly high-technology and other types of equipment that allow companies to become more productive.
"Factory activity remains unquestionably robust," Stan Shipley, an economist for Merrill Lynch & Company, said.
In another report, the Department of Housing and Urban Development said the home ownership rate hit a record annual high of 66.8 percent in 1999. Plentiful jobs, rising incomes, stock market gains and low inflation have put Americans in the buying mood, economists said. In 1998, the rate was 66.3 percent.
The bigger-than-expected 4.1 percent increase in durable-goods orders in December was the best showing since July and increased orders to a seasonally adjusted $212.9 billion. Many analysts had forecast a 0.8 percent rise. In November, orders rose 1 percent.
A 16.2 percent jump in orders for transportation equipment, the largest since August 1998, contributed to the big increase in December's overall rise in durable goods orders. Transportation equipment, including cars, had gains across the board but the sector was led by strong demand for airplanes and aircraft parts.
Paul Taylor, economist for the National Automobile Dealers Association, said his industry sold an all-time high of nearly 17 million cars and light trucks in 1999. Sales in 2000 are expected to be slightly lower but still remain at brisk levels, he said.
Excluding the volatile transportation sector, overall durable goods orders grew 0.7 percent last month.
Orders for electronic and other electrical equipment, including semiconductors, circuit boards, telecommunications equipment and home appliances, rose by 4.6 percent, another factor behind last month's surge in overall orders. Orders for this sector have been up in six of the last seven months.
But orders for industrial machinery, including computers and machine tools, which have been down in six of the last eight months, fell 4.2 percent in December.
Separately, the Labor Department said the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits rose by 1,000 last week, to 266,000. Even with the small gain, the low level of claims indicates that employers are having trouble finding workers to fill job openings.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Orders"
The graph shows manufacturers total new orders for durable goods since July 1998.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (83%); MER (NYSE) (83%); 8675 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSN MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSN US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); HOUSING; SALES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; AUTOMOBILES; SALES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); DURABLE GOODS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (87%); MOTOR VEHICLES (86%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (67%); CITIES (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: TAYLOR, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



694 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Havana Journal;
On Show in Cuba: Marvels of American Medicine

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: HAVANA, Jan. 27

 BODY:
Toting bags bulging with everything from slick brochures for sophisticated surgical equipment to packets of Pepto-Bismol, crowds of Cuban doctors, nurses and technicians strolled along the red-carpeted aisles of the first American trade show here since the United States imposed an economic embargo four decades ago.
Sure, the whole affair could have been limited to the handful of Cuban officials actually responsible for purchasing medical products. But many of the 8,000 medical professionals expected to attend the United States Health Care Exhibition were eager to participate in a curious encounter that was part seminar on modern medical knowledge, part window-shopping for American medical devices and part political opening. 
 In some ways the scene at the Pabexpo Convention Center -- with Cuban doctors calmly talking shop with American sales representatives -- was oddly juxtaposed with the Cuban government's recent clamor for the return of the 6-year-old refugee Elian Gonzalez. The American executives, in turn, expected few quick deals, if any, because of the intricate regulations governing the embargo.
The exhibition is the latest small gesture, like last year's visit of the governor of Illinois to explore agricultural exports, where politicians and businesspeople seek to raise awareness of opportunities with the ultimate goal of lifting the embargo that has yet to topple President Fidel Castro.
"Why should we lose out?" said Tony DeLio, the president of ADM Nutraceutical, a division of Archer Daniels Midland, a sponsor of the exhibition. "The economic embargo has not worked. It has not accomplished its political objectives. Opening up trade and normalizing relations with Cuba would be in the best interests of America economically and politically. We trade openly with Vietnam, with whom we had a war."
Working for the Cuban health care system, which is an often-invoked accomplishment of the very revolution that eventually provoked the embargo, the Cubans crowded around demonstrations of optical equipment, tried on leg braces and chatted about the latest technologies and techniques that remain tantalizingly beyond their reach.
"Now we only need two things," concluded one Cuban as he left the exhibition hall. "More equipment. And the money to buy it."
Both things are in short supply here, ever since the collapse of the Soviet Union pushed Cuba into an economic slide from which it has yet to recover fully. Replacement parts for medical equipment can be scarce, as are some medicines at pharmacies. Cubans with relatives in the United States treasure their regular shipments of vitamins and aspirin, poring over bottle labels as if they were deciphering scriptures.
Medical goods and food are eligible for sale despite the embargo because they are considered humanitarian aid. American officials said that in the last 18 months they had licensed $45 million in medical sales to Cuba, although that only means companies were approved to begin negotiations. They said they did not know how many sales had taken place, but Cuban officials insisted none had because the deals fell through after delays or because financing or transport could not be obtained.
Cuban officials chafe at other American regulations, like the requirement to document that medicines and equipment supplies have not been used to treat foreigners and hence earn hard currency from hospital charges.
"How can I ensure that every patient is a Cuban?" said Rodrigo Alvarez Cambras, the director of the Frank Pais International Orthopedic Complex, where almost a third of
the patients are indeed foreigners. "They want a clinical history. That is crazy. If we pay for it, what does it matter if we give it to a Cuban or a foreigner? If you get hurt and come here, do I have to say to you I cannot help you and let you die?"
Most of the American products the executives brought here with them -- bandages, vitamins and, in one case, a $365,000 radiation therapy device -- will be donated as a gesture of good will, not to mention brand awareness and a first step toward the day when business and diplomatic relations between the two countries are normalized.
Befitting a medical show, several executives said that would come only through "the biological solution," a thinly veiled allusion to the aging Mr. Castro.
"This is a learning experience," said Jeff Dziura, the director of international sales for the Ferris Mfg. Corporation, a wound-care products company in suburban Chicago. "You have to test the water whether you make a deal or not. Things change politically. That's the beauty of international trade. A lot of people in the States are afraid of it. But if you have action in many countries, when one country is suffering problems you can enjoy prosperity in another part of the world. You spread your risks."
Although some people noted that the companies at the show did not send any high-powered delegations, it mattered little to the Cubans. A half-dozen people waited patiently to have their vision tested, while others gingerly tasted free samples of chile without carne, made from soybeans. And while the exhibition was devoted to health, cigarette smoke wafted through the air, a reminder that American medical attitudes against smoking have yet to filter down here.
"What I have yet to see are any little pills to help me stop smoking," said Xiomara Rodriguez, as she sheepishly crushed out her cigarette in a potted plant. She said that while Cuba had made its own medical advances, in the field of natural medicines in which she works, for instance, the displays of new equipment reminded her of the gap that remained in both technology and politics.
"We hope they remove the blockade so we can get ahead," she said. "Nobody has the right to take away our right to develop. We have been trying to advance, but they do not let us."
Intent on at least advancing her own knowledge, Dr. Vilma Lisnar spent hours instead of dollars learning about physical therapy equipment, disposable syringes and nutritional supplements. At a booth sponsored by Pfizer, she discussed with a sales representative the side effects of some new antibiotics.
"This is marvelous, because in the clinic where I work we need these a lot," said Dr. Lisnar, a family doctor. "Another company had a product to improve your memory. How wonderful that would be."
Of course, in some quarters, memories of the last four decades of revolution and embargo have persisted perfectly well without it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nearly 100 companies are taking part in the United States Health Care Exhibition in Havana this week, thefirst American trade show held there in four decades. A big hit with visitors was a machine for testing vision. (David Gonzalez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (82%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (82%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (82%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (82%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (82%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (82%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; HAVANA (CUBA); UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); HAVANA, CUBA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); SALES & SELLING (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (76%); POLITICS (74%); APPROVALS (71%); SALES FORCE (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); REFUGEES (68%); NUTRACEUTICALS (64%); PHARMACIES (60%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (51%); AGRICULTURE (51%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



695 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases;
'Weekend Mom' Gets the Full-Time Job

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
Three years ago, Nicole E. Arzu was expecting her second child, but she received some tough news instead. Her doctors told her that her kidneys were not functioning properly. If she continued her pregnancy, they warned, her kidneys might cease processing toxins, her lungs could fill with fluid, and she could ultimately die in a way that sounded much like drowning.
But Ms. Arzu felt fine, she said, and could not imagine giving up her pregnancy. 
 "I was in major denial," said Ms. Arzu, who turns 27 on Monday. "I went and got a couple of second opinions, and third opinions, because I didn't believe it. I was supposed to be feeling so awful but I felt like I could run around the block."
Eventually, when told that she might not survive labor, and that the baby was likely to be stillborn, she relented. "It was so traumatic," she said. "For a while I felt guilty, but so many people were coming at me from different directions. People were saying, 'Live for the one you have.' "
But her illness prevented her from focusing on the one she had, her son, Paul, who was then 2. Her kidneys had deteriorated so much that she needed to undergo dialysis, an enormously time-consuming process, three times a week. Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, Ms. Arzu had to sit in a hospital room for almost three hours while tubes attached to her pumped her blood through an artificial kidney that acted as a filter. The treatment, which continues today, exhausts her so much, she said, that it is difficult for her to do anything else on those days.
While undergoing treatment, Ms. Arzu was unable to look after her son in their home in Flatbush, Brooklyn. She was single and unemployed, receiving $535 in public disability assistance, $136 in welfare support for her son and $37 worth of food stamps each month. She could not afford child care for Paul, and so he lived with her sister in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. Ms. Arzu visited him on weekends.
In effect, Ms. Arzu felt as if she had lost two children because of her illness. To help her take her son back home, the city's Administration for Children's Services recommended Ms. Arzu for the Homemaker Services Program, run by the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, one of seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
A free temporary child care service intended to help families in crisis, the homemaker program sent Ms. Arzu a baby sitter for her son while she was undergoing dialysis. Ms. Arzu consulted a case supervisor, and a child care provider was assigned to her. Paul was able to return home.
"Thank God," Ms. Arzu said. "I was a weekend mom, and that really bothered me. That was really, really hard, especially when he'd call and would say, 'I want to come home, Mommy.' That made it even worse, to say, 'You can't come home. I can't take care of you.' "
Serving about 500 children each year, the homemaker program is intended as a bridge to help families stay together through the toughest struggles. But not all the families are like the Arzus.
In about 60 percent of the cases, caseworkers with the Homemaker Services Program intervene when the Administration for Children's Services is on the verge of removing a child from a home because of suspected abuse or neglect. In those cases, the support is more intensive, involving counseling for family members, additional child care for the children, and training in parenting skills for the parents. For the remaining 40 percent of the program's clients, one or both parents are ill, in many cases with AIDS.
But in all cases, the program is meant to be a temporary support. "The way the caseworker explained it to me, it's to try and teach you independence," Ms. Arzu said. "They help you through the crisis and help you get back on your feet."
Ms. Arzu needed the service only until her son, now 5, began kindergarten at Public School 91 in Flatbush last fall. Still, the homemaker program sends a caseworker to check on the family about once every two months.
Now, on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, Ms. Arzu walks her son to school, gets her treatment and has several hours in the afternoon to, as she puts it, "do the mommy thing." Without the help of the homemaker program, said Ms. Arzu, the "mommy thing" would have been out of reach.
"Just knowing that my son was home was all I ever really wanted," she said. "I believe that a child belongs with his parents, and I was very happy to see that my child was here. It was great peace of mind."
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of the Qpass digital commerce service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Online donors receive a free trial subscription to the crossword puzzle of The New York Times on the Web.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded -- $5,093,173.69
Recorded Thursday -- $193,124.95
 
Total -- $5,286,298.64
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A baby sitter with the Homemaker Services Program cared for the young son of Nicole E. Arzu, 26, while she underwent dialysis. (Philip Greenberg for Th New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE ONE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (93%); DIALYSIS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); FAMILY (78%); CHILD WELFARE (73%); CHARITIES (71%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); 

PERSON: SIEGAL, NINA; ARZU, NICOLE E NICOLE E ARZU (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



696 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Group Sues to Halt Low-Level Training Flights

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
A coalition of environmentalists, outdoorsmen and rural landowners sued the Air Force today, seeking suspension of low-level training flights that they say have gravely disrupted wildlife, livestock and recreation, especially in the wild deserts, canyons and forests of the West.
The lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court here, is the most serious legal challenge so far to the Air Force's training program, which has been beset by political and legal attacks around the country. 
 From cattle ranchers in Texas and American Indians in Idaho to hikers in New Hampshire's White Mountains, complaints about fighter jets and bombers roaring overhead have steadily increased in recent years, forcing the Air Force to scramble to keep its training spaces.
Virtually every Air Force proposal to find new places to train or to expand the use of existing spaces has faced increasingly vehement local opposition, but the coalition's challenge is the first to try to suspend all low-level training.
The coalition hopes to force the Air Force to complete a broad environmental study of the impact of its training flights on wildlife, as well as on tourism and other economic activities, in areas under or near its training areas. While the Air Force has conducted limited studies for individual areas, the lawsuit accuses it of violating the National Environmental Policy Act by not studying the cumulative effects of training flights.
"The evidence has been mounting for years that these flights are not compatible with a lot of land uses," said Peter J. Galvin, a biologist with the Center for Biological Diversity, a conservation group in Tucson that is one of the plaintiffs in the suit. "And the Air Force has never studied the cumulative impact."
The case underscores the difficulties the Air Force and the other services have had competing for the nation's increasingly crowded airspace -- as well as for public lands for bombing runs and firing other weapons -- as commercial airline traffic has increased and areas that were once remote have become more populated.
The challenges have intensified since the end of the cold war. Citing national security has proved less persuasive than it once was when it comes to sonic disruptions caused by jets and other military activity.
While the lawsuit's prospects are not clear, a suspension of all training is seemingly remote. But it could force the service to conduct the broad environmental impact study, which the coalition's leaders said was their main objective.
"At least then, we would have a public process we can interact in," Mr. Galvin said.
The Air Force did not respond directly to the lawsuit, saying it would not comment on pending litigation. But officials released a statement saying that the service regularly analyzed the impact of low-level flights and that a suspension is not warranted.
"Realistic training is essential for the United States Air Force," the statement said. "It provides the combat edge that enables victory in battle and reduces American casualties."
The Air Force is not alone among the services in facing these challenges, nor is the United States the only place where citizens have taken issue with the noise -- and potential danger -- of such training.
In Puerto Rico, the Navy has become mired in a political dispute over using the island of Vieques as a bombing range. In Germany, public outrage over NATO training flights forced German pilots to train at a range in New Mexico, prompting new legal challenges from residents there.
The Air Force began a broad study of the environmental impact of low-level flights in 1988, but abandoned it and never made the results public, Mr. Galvin said. An internal Air Force memo, obtained by the coalition under the Freedom of Information Act, concluded that the study's preliminary finding "does not put the Air Force in a favorable light."
Air Force pilots fly roughly two million hours a year around the world. In the United States, aviation regulations restrict military aircraft flying faster than 250 miles an hour to proscribed routes and operating areas, forcing them to stay away from cities, for example. Some of those areas are set aside exclusively for military use, but in most, military aircraft mix with commercial airliners, though at different altitudes.
The Air Force defines "low level" as below 500 feet, and officials said that only 5 percent of its training flights dip below that. But the coalition is seeking to suspend training flights below 2,000 feet, the voluntary standard for all flights that the Federal Aviation Administration recently established for national parks and other wilderness areas.
The lawsuit claims that low-level flights "are having cumulative and synergistic environmental impacts on many facets of the nation's environment." The shock of jets soaring overhead has disrupted protected species of birds and mammals, as well as livestock, causing herds to stampede and female cattle to abort calves, it says.
The lawsuit also cites reports by the National Park Service and the Fish and Wildlife Service that raise concerns about the disruption flights cause to hikers, hunters and others in parks and wilderness areas.
"The sudden, violent aural and visual intrusions of all these low-level training flights is eroding the ability of visitors to use these sensitive public lands for the purposes for which they were set aside," it says.
Air Force spokesmen disputed the impact on wildlife or livestock. They said scientific studies had shown that animals adjusted to the noise of jets, and they noted that many of the nation's bombing ranges had attracted abundant wildlife escaping human development. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AIR FORCE (US) US AIR FORCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: AIR FORCE (US) US AIR FORCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (93%); IDAHO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; ENVIRONMENT; MILITARY AIRCRAFT SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); LITIGATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); ANIMALS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MAMMALS (77%); HIKING (77%); COLD WAR (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (70%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



697 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: '99 Profit Sharing at Ford Averages $8,000

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Jan. 27

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company said today that its hourly workers in the United States would receive an average of $8,000 in profit sharing for 1999, topping the record $6,100 average workers got for 1998.
Ford's figure compares with an average of $1,775 that the General Motors Corporation will pay its 154,000 United States hourly work force. DaimlerChrysler A.G. has not yet announced its profit-sharing levels, but local economists have estimated that it could be $8,500 each. 
 Detroit's Big Three automakers have been reporting healthy earnings gains for 1999, the best year for United States car and truck sales. On Wednesday, Ford reported 1999 earnings of $7.2 billion, a record for any automaker.
Ford said about 109,000 unionized workers would get the checks on March 3. For the first time, the 1999 checks are going to hourly workers only. Salaried employees will receive bonuses under a new plan.
The 1999 checks are the 14th payment under the company's profit-sharing plan since it was begun in 1982. The total of the 14 average checks comes to $40,575. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); DAI (FRA) (72%); DAI (BIT) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER FORD MOTOR CO (98%); DAIMLER AG (72%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PROFIT SHARING; LABOR; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; WAGES AND SALARIES EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



698 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Gillette's Struggles Become Clear in Ear nings Decline

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
Gillette not so proudly affirmed its place within the ranks of struggling consumer products companies yesterday, reporting lower sales and earnings for the fourth quarter of 1999.
Boston-based Gillette, which is best known for its razors but makes everything from Duracell batteries to Right Guard deodorant, said earnings dropped 22 percent, to $339 million, in the final three months of 1999 from $435 million a year earlier. Quarterly sales slipped about 4 percent, to $3.03 billion in 1999. 
 The earnings were 32 cents a share, in line with the expectations of Wall Street analysts.
For the year, the picture was nearly as grim. Gillette's sales fell about 2 percent, to just under $10 billion, and profits dipped 12 percent, to $1.26 billion, or $1.15 a share.
Gillette has been buffeted by the aftereffects of the economic crisis in Asia and Latin America, which caused inventories of its products to swell worldwide. Reducing those inventories lowered sales and earnings throughout 1999.
In addition, profits for the company's Braun electric razors division fell sharply last year, and sales and profits from toiletries like Right Guard remained weak. Even the Mach 3 razor, rolled out with fanfare two years ago, has not been the panacea the company hoped.
In a conference call to discuss the earnings, a Gillette spokesman said that the company believed its worst problems were behind it and that it was comfortable with analysts' estimates that its profits and sales would rebound in 2000. Analysts estimate that Gillette will earn $1.28 a share in 2000, up 10 percent from 1999.
Still, the company will probably continue to face pressure from investors to sell its weakest divisions or even to consider a merger with Procter & Gamble. Gillette officials have declined to comment on a Wall Street Journal report of an overture made by P & G.
"They've had operating problems," said Timothy Ghriskey, a senior portfolio manager at Dreyfus, which owned almost four million Gillette shares as of September 1999. "It was a very-high-valuation blue chip that has certainly come down, and I'm not surprised that Procter took a look at them."
Gillette and P & G have "the same distribution channels, the same ability to innovate on a product," he continued. "I think they could probably help each other."
Gillette has said it may sell or reorganize Braun and its stationery products division. In the most recent quarter, Braun sales fell 4 percent, and profits dropped 55 percent, while stationery sales and profits fell 17 and 89 percent, respectively. In the conference call, the company said it would decide what to do about Braun and stationery products this year.
"Gillette's got a lot to prove," said Erik Gustafson, a senior portfolio manager of Stein Roe & Farnham, which owned 1.8 million Gillette shares in September, all of which it has sold. "Unless they can prove to their investors that they can show consistent quality earnings, this stock is going nowhere."
In trading yesterday before earnings results were released, Gillette closed at $40, up 68.75 cents.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (91%); PG (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (91%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (71%); LATIN AMERICA (56%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GILLETTE CO BRAUN GMBH (92%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (91%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); STEIN ROE & FARNHAM INC (50%); RIGHT GUARD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GILLETTE CO RIGHT GUARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (71%); LATIN AMERICA (56%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TOILETRIES MFG (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



699 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Warns Pakistan It May Be Branded a Sponsor of Terrorism

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
The Clinton administration issued a public warning to Pakistan today that it could be branded a state sponsor of terrorism -- ending any hope for a resumption of large-scale American aid -- if the Pakistani Army continued to support terrorists blamed for the hijacking of an Indian Airlines jet last month.
The administration also denounced the decision by Pakistan's new leader, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, to require all higher court judges to swear an oath that would bar them from challenging the army. The country's chief justice refused to take the pledge earlier this week and was immediately replaced. 
 The State Department's chief spokesman, James P. Rubin, said that a possible connection between Pakistan's military and the group tied to the hijacking, Harkat ul-Mujahedeen, "is a matter of extreme concern to us -- this is an organization that we have declared a terrorist organization."
Asked at a news conference to explain the implications of a link, Mr. Rubin said that "if the secretary of state determines that a government has repeatedly provided support of international terrorism directly, then she would be prepared to designate that country as a state sponsor of terrorism."
"Any country in the world should know that if we determine that they have provided support to international terrorism on a repeated basis, that they are subject to this designation," he continued.
The remarks make official what senior administration officials have been saying privately -- that Pakistan's ties to the terrorists threaten the already turbulent relationship with the United States, once a close ally, and could produce new American sanctions. General Musharraf took power in a coup last October.
In a meeting last week in Pakistan with a delegation of senior Clinton administration officials, General Musharraf refused their request that he ban Harkat ul-Mujahedeen, a radical group seeking independence for Muslims in the disputed territory of Kashmir, officials said.
A decision by the United States to add Pakistan to its official list of nations that support terrorism -- a list that includes Iran, Iraq and Syria -- would end any lingering hope in Pakistan for the resumption of what had once been a large package of American aid.
The package, which totalled hundreds of millions of dollars a year in the late 1980's, was cut off in 1990 as a result of fears over a Pakistan program to develop nuclear weapons. Washington now provides Pakistan with only about $6 million in aid each year -- half of it for counternarcotics assistance, half for health programs for women and children.
Administration officials have also said that the United States could use its leverage in the World Bank and International Monetary Fund to cut off loans to Pakistan, although they said the administration would be reluctant to take any move that might push already impoverished Pakistan into near collapse.
American officials said that without some quick move by Pakistan to clamp down on the terrorists or to push for reform, President Clinton will bypass Pakistan during a trip to the region at the end of March that is scheduled to include India and Bangladesh. It will be the first presidential trip to the Indian subcontinent in more than two decades. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); INDIA (58%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%); 

COMPANY: INDIAN AIRLINES INDIAN AIRLINES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDIAN AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); INDIA (58%); KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; FOREIGN AID TERRORISM (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ARMIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (63%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



700 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Davos Forum Opens With Qualified Exuberance

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 27

 BODY:
A year ago, when the very rich and the very powerful gathered by the ski slopes of this Swiss resort for the annual hyper-schmooze called the World Economic Forum, their gathering fell under the shadow of the financial damage in Russia and Latin America and the lingering economic weakness in much of Asia. This year, at least in the opening hours, it was feel-good time.
A survey released by PricewaterhouseCoopers today showed that 1,020 chief executives who control companies with stock worth billions were overwhelmingly optimistic about Internet-driven growth. 
 Abby Joseph Cohen, the Goldman, Sachs market strategist, said soaring United States stock prices were not overvalued and the American economy would grow, too.
As if to punctuate the initial exuberance of the conference, the Boston Philharmonic's conductor, Benjamin Zander, led participants in a rousing rendition of Beethoven's "Ode to Joy."
But if there was a looming issue to tinge the crisp, blue skies of Davos a darker shade, it was how the haves, who benefit most from the fast-moving advance of technology, would continue to do so without courting the backlash of the have-nots -- evident at the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle.
This is not the kind of gathering where people come expecting to frame stirring resolutions. Rather, said one participant, the investment banker Udayan Bose of Lazard India Ltd., it is a place where people meet the people who will be making the deals of tomorrow.
But with a heavy lineup of politicians -- including Bill Clinton, the first American President to attend, and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain -- plus a strong sprinkling of labor leaders and rights activists invited to leaven the capitalist mix, the debate surrounding globalization's future will impinge on many among the 300 politicians, 1,200 business leaders and 400 academics, writers and others here.
"We cannot forget that we are entering this new age with a lot of unfinished business from the 20th century," said Klaus Schwab, a Swiss academic who founded the economic forum as a foundation 30 years ago and has turned it into one of the world's glittery gatherings.
Indeed, such are the worries about Seattle-style protests that the Swiss Army has been deployed in the pine-clad valley surrounding Davos and American helicopters have been seen in the skies above. "U.S. pilots practice for C-Day," said the tabloid Blick, referring to President Clinton's six-hour visit on Saturday.
Possibly seeking to stir opposition to the president's visit, anonymous hoaxers sent a forged letter to homes and hotels saying a curfew would be imposed during that time, Swiss television reported tonight. A few days ago, a projectile, described variously as a firecracker or gasoline bomb, was thrown at the bunker-like center where the forum meets.
"Globalization can be a process which can be of benefit to everybody," Mr. Schwab said. "So what we have to see here is how we can create the policies and actions in order to make sure that there are no losers of this process."
Losers are not much in evidence here. Only the wealthiest and most successful corporations are invited; their executives pay more than $20,000 to attend; and the guest list this year includes such luminaries of the markets and the Internet era as Stephen M. Case of America Online, William H. Gates of Microsoft and the financier George Soros.
Such is the draw of this gathering that the American delegation includes not only the president but Commerce Secretary William M. Daley, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers and the White House trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky. Their presence has reinforced a trend seen by other participants in the event, once dominated by Europeans, that it has become a forum reflecting the political, technological and economic weight of the United States.
Officially, the central theme this year is supposed to be the human impact of Internet technology and biotechnology. Today's survey from PricewaterhouseCoopers, for instance, said 64 percent of chief executives who responded were "somewhat optimistic" about their companies' prospects for the next three years and 27 percent were "extremely optimistic."
But here, too, social perspectives intruded: 50 percent said they expected Internet-based business to widen the gap between the world's rich and poor. while 38 percent said the gap would narrow. Mr. Schwab urged that the Internet and biotechnology revolutions become "beneficial and acceptable to all."
And, in a statement, labor leaders from Europe and the United States -- including Bill Jordan, head of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, and John J. Sweeney of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. -- urged the elite here to "commit themselves to work toward universal social justice."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Perhaps to inspire some of the world's deep economic thinkers, organizers of the Davos forum enlisted the Boston Symphony's conductor, Benjamin Zander, to lead participants yesterday in Beethoven's "Ode to Joy." (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); ASIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVOS (SWITZERLAND); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); ASIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SKIING (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (64%); HELICOPTERS (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (57%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); COWELL, ALAN BILL CLINTON (69%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



701 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Euro Settles Below Dollar For First Time

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The value of Europe's single currency, the euro, plunged 1.3 percent yesterday to finish trading for the first time below the psychologically important level of $1. Since its debut, one year and 27 days ago, it has fallen 15.3 percent against the dollar.
The difference between a euro at 98.86 cents, where it was in late trading in New York yesterday, and its $1.0013 value on Wednesday is small. But the decline is an emotional blow to a currency that was expected to rally after its birth and even challenge the supremacy of the dollar. 
 "It is turning into the little currency that couldn't," said Ann Mills, senior foreign economist at Brown Brothers Harriman.
Now that the $1 level has been pierced, foreign exchange analysts expect the 11-nation currency to fall further. Some are scaling back their expectations for a rally later this year as well. Karen E. Parker, director of currency research at Chase Securities, now expects the euro to fall as low as 95 cents and bounce back by the end of the year to $1.07, instead of $1.10, as she predicted late last year.
"There is a sense that there is a policy of benign neglect," said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics, a consulting firm in Essex, Conn. "The Group of Seven just met and didn't mention the euro in the communique," he said, referring to the meeting of finance officials of the seven leading industrial nations.
With the break below parity, which the euro had done in intraday trading on Tuesday and Wednesday and twice more in early December, the currencies represented by the euro are at their weakest point against the dollar since the mid-1980's and earlier. This is good for American tourists, as the cost of travel to Europe becomes cheaper. But it is tough on American exporters, whose products become more expensive in Europe.
What is mystifying about the euro's decline is that the economic fundamentals are positive. The 11-nation euro bloc, known as Euroland, is growing again, albeit slowly, and inflation is low. The pace of American growth, meanwhile, is expected to slow this year, as the Federal Reserve tries to cool the economy by continuing to raise short-term interest rates.
Currencies, though, can suffer even when economic fundamentals are positive. The dollar was quite weak in 1995 and 1996, as the current economic expansion was gaining a full head of steam and the American stock market was taking off.
The euro's weakness is aggravated by its recent record. Investors who bet on it early have lost a lot of money. Those losses serve as a reminder to investors to sell quickly when the euro fails to meet expectations. "When people start to see it go down, they don't have the heart to stay with it," Ms. Mills said. The beginning of the year was particularly disappointing. The euro rose 2.7 percent as the American stock market fell. But that rally sputtered after just seven trading days, and the euro has gone downhill since.
In some ways, a weak currency is not bad right now for Euroland (Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain). It helps exports, which are critical to Europe's economic recovery, by making them less expensive abroad. A weak currency can add to inflationary pressures by making imports more expensive.
But Europe is at the beginning of an economic rebound, while the United States economy is days away from setting a record for the longest expansion in its history. This means price pressures will build more slowly in Europe than they would in the United States. In addition, unemployment remains high in Euroland, and core inflation, excluding food and energy, remains low at about 1 percent.
The benefits of a weaker euro and the dearth of inflationary pressures put the European Central Bank in a tight spot. A rate increase could help strengthen the euro. But with no hint of out-of-control price pressures, there is no strong reason to raise interest rates aggressively to curb growth. Otmar Issing, chief economist of the European Central Bank, made it clear on Wednesday that the central bank would not worry about the level of the euro unless it was adding to inflationary pressures.
"I don't think they can afford to raise interest rates," said Jeremy P. Fand, senior foreign exchange strategist at BankBoston. "The economy is still too weak."
Still, many analysts expect the European Central Bank to raise short-term rates modestly this year to assure that the economic rebound does not ignite inflation. A factor in the bank's decision will be the results of key wage talks, starting with IG Metall, Germany's largest union.
Policy makers of the European Central Bank are meeting on Feb. 3 to discuss whether to raise rates. Ms. Parker of Chase Securities said that the latest fall in the euro "may mean that they do half of a percentage point instead of a quarter of a percentage point, or do it earlier." She is still expecting policy makers to wait until March before acting.
Given that United States policy makers are expected to raise the key short-term interest rate target at least a quarter-point on Wednesday, the European Central Bank may have some added pressure to respond sooner, rather than later.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the Euro to the Dollar since January 1999. (pg. C4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN SERVICES AG (56%); BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO TOKYO (56%); BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); EURO (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



702 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE FRONT-RUNNER;
Gore Hammers Bradley As Using Negative Attack

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Jan. 27

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore continued his drumbeat against former Senator Bill Bradley today, accusing him of using negative attacks.
The Gore campaign seemed stung at Wednesday night's debate when Mr. Bradley accused Mr. Gore of lying and of distorting Mr. Bradley's record. The Gore camp was fighting assertions not only by Mr. Bradley but also by the debate moderator that Mr. Gore has been distorting Mr. Bradley's record and his health-care proposal. During the debate, Mr. Bradley compared Mr. Gore to former President Richard M. Nixon, the emblem of dishonesty in high office. 
 Speaking to about 25 employees at Silknet, a software company, Mr. Gore sharply attacked Mr. Bradley. "Regrettably, I'm not sure that Senator Bradley wants a real debate on the substance of the issues," he said.
Mr. Gore accused Mr. Bradley of contradictory behavior, of attacking while complaining of attacks. Mr. Gore then got in his own digs at Mr. Bradley, but, in one example, interpreted a statement by Mr. Bradley with words he never used. Mr. Gore referred to Mr. Bradley's statement before the Iowa caucuses that Iowa "rewards entrenched power," a reference to Mr. Gore's lock on organized labor. Today Mr. Gore said Mr. Bradley "attacked the voters by saying that they were puppets of entrenched power."
Mr. Gore added: "Now in the closing days of this contest, he has raised another phony issue, condemning negative attacks while launching negative attacks himself. I don't quite understand how someone can condemn so-called negative attacks while in the next breath launching real negative attacks."
And he continued to hammer at Mr. Bradley's proposals for Medicaid. "I am going to fight to protect Medicaid," Mr. Gore said, adding: "Senator Bradley's plan would eliminate Medicaid and replace it with an inadequate substitute. That's a fact, not a negative attack." Mr. Bradley has proposed replacing Medicaid with a larger health insurance program that would cover more people.
Mr. Gore was put on the defensive himself today in an interview with New Hampshire Public Radio. The first caller, who identified herself as Sarah in Nashua, questioned his credibility: "I watched the debate last night and I heard you say you have always supported a woman's right to choose," the caller said. "I understand if you've changed your position during your career, but I'm just having a hard -- I don't know how I can support your candidacy if you're dishonest about such an important subject and especially on national television."
Mr. Gore, who declared in the debate that he had "always been for a woman's right to choose," said that he had always supported Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion. But he acknowledged that he had wrestled with the question of whether public money should be used to pay for abortions for poor women.
"I have always supported keeping abortion legal, and it's true that earlier in my career I voted to restrict the use of federal funding in some circumstances, but over the years I have come to the very strong view that federal funding should also be available, and that has been my position for quite a long time," he said.
Also in the radio interview, Mr. Gore was asked about his apparent shift away from Mr. Clinton earlier and his shift toward him now.
"First of all, we're friends, and that friendship is genuine," Mr. Gore said. "Secondly, I have been critical of the personal mistake that the president made, which I've been asked about from time to time in this campaign. Third, I have fought alongside the president for this strong economy and for the other improvements that we've seen during the Clinton/ Gore administration. And fourth, I have to win this race on my own.
"Now," he continued, "depending upon the question that's asked or the perspective of the questioner, they may focus on one of those four aspects of the relationship and not really hear the complexity of it with all four, and if they hear only that I'm running on my own, they may say, 'Oh, he's distancing himself.' If they hear I fought with President Clinton for a strong economy, they may say, 'Oh, he's embracing President Clinton.' Well, all of those things are true, but it's not true that I'm either distancing myself from him or that I am trying to run as a derivative candidate. So it's a complex relationship, just as most human relationships are."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore spoke yesterday to about 25 employees at Silknet, a software company in Manchester, N.H. Stung by his Democratic challenger, former Senator Bill Bradley, in Wednesday's debate, Mr. Gore accused Mr. Bradley of negative attacks . (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NASHUA, NH, USA (67%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); NASHUA, NH, USA (67%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (61%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); ABORTION (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL AL GORE (94%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



703 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: News Analysis;
A Budget That Looks Beyond the 5 Boroughs

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
When Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced yesterday that he was not proposing anything in his new budget "for political purposes" and was "very offended" that people could think otherwise, the response from city Democrats was a collective roll of the eyes. The mayor's budget, Democrats said, was an even more political document than usual, with an income tax cut and an aggressive stance toward unions aimed at the upstate and suburban voters Mr. Giuliani needs in his undeclared United States Senate campaign.
"Politics? What politics?" said a facetious Peter F. Vallone, the speaker of the City Council, in his reaction to Mr. Giuliani's spending plan. 
 Although budgets are always political maps in which mayors lay out their priorities and vision, Mr. Giuliani's newest spending plan, full of the surpluses of prosperous times and seemingly with something for everyone, is different from his other budgets in that it reaches beyond the five boroughs to appeal to voters statewide. The mayor's call for a 16 percent reduction in the municipal income tax rate, although benefiting city workers only, would, for example, burnish his credentials across New York as a tax-cutting Republican who understands the middle class.
"I love cutting taxes," Mr. Giuliani said, then concluded with a defense of the kind of supply side economics not usually embraced in an overwhelmingly Democratic city: "So, tax cutting can produce more revenues. You need to think about it a little, but thinking about it is really what makes for intelligent human beings." If people cannot understand the relationship between reduced taxes and an improved economy, the mayor said, "then you should be studying the economy of Cuba."
Democratic strategists generally viewed Mr. Giuliani's budget as smart Senate politics intended to put the mayor just to the right of center. "Who is he talking to when he talks tax cuts?" said Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic political consultant. "He's not talking to Manhattan liberals, who aren't going to vote for him. He's talking to outer-borough Catholics, outer-borough ethnics. He's talking to people in the suburbs, he's talking to people in Nassau County. He's telling them he's a good manager and he shares their values."
Mr. Vallone, who said he did not oppose the income tax cut, which could take effect as early as July, also said he understood its purpose. "If it wasn't an election year, would he have mentioned it?" Mr. Vallone said. "I don't think so."
Similarly, Mr. Giuliani's proposal to give city workers wage increases based solely on merit, not across the board, will probably be seen by upstate and suburban voters as a desirable crackdown on the city's powerful unions. Mr. Giuliani was in effect saying that he is an enemy not of all teachers, just bad teachers. "The city will not agree to a single-percentage pay increase," Mr. Giuliani said. "That era is over."
He added that the city would require, in labor negotiations, that city workers be offered up to five levels of merit pay increases, including no increase at all. He also said he wanted more flexibility to remove the worst employees. Across-the-board increases, he said, mean that "the very best teacher gets the same raise as the very worst teacher," and therefore, teacher "performance descends to the lowest common denominator."
Mr. Giuliani's budget presentation was also striking for its lengthy complaint, worthy of a senator, about how much more New York State sends to Washington in federal taxes than it gets back in revenue. Quoting a study by the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat, Mr. Giuliani said the state sent $15 billion more to Washington than it got in return. He added, to no one's surprise, that states like Arkansas -- the home of his likely opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton, before she moved this month to Westchester County -- end up with a surplus. "So essentially what's happening is New Yorkers are subsidizing other places," Mr. Giuliani said.
Howard Wolfson, Mrs. Clinton's spokesman, responded that she had been speaking out about New York's unfair tax burden since last summer, and added, "It sounds like they're stealing a page from our playbook."
In the Senate race, Mr. Giuliani has a narrow edge over Mrs. Clinton in statewide polls, but his vulnerable areas with voters remain his policies toward the homeless and the state of the city's schools. Yesterday, the mayor offered more details on a variety of education proposals he made in his State of the City speech earlier this month, including spending $45 million to privatize failing schools and $6 million for a school voucher program. He also suggested that the city could save money by selling the Brooklyn building that houses the Board of Education's headquarters, and by reducing the school bureaucracy by 75 percent. "We're going to sell that damn building," said Mr. Giuliani, promising that the city would introduce a resolution for the sale to the board in the next few weeks.
Mr. Giuliani also said he would expand his program for the homeless, although his budget calls for only a modest increase in funds for the Department of Homeless Services, from $176 million in fiscal year 2000 to $181 million in fiscal year 2001. But Mr. Giuliani, who spent the fall defending his policies toward the city's homeless, said he was spending "significantly more on less people," and those who say the city is not compassionate are engaging in "political spin."
Mr. Giuliani added, "There are people who make their money out of the welfare industry," but as the lives of the homeless improve, their advocates "have less money, less budget, less authority, and you put them on television less, which might actually be the thing that motivates them more than anything else." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) NEW YORK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NEW YORK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; SUBURBS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); SUBURBS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



704 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Unions Call Merit Pay Proposal Unacceptable

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani outlined a bold, even radical, departure for the city's labor relations yesterday, but the city's municipal union leaders immediately denounced it, saying they could never accept his plan to replace across-the-board wage increases with merit pay.
In his annual budget address, Mr. Giuliani hailed the concept of merit pay, saying that basing wage increases solely on how well individual workers performed would be a sure-fire way to raise productivity. 
 But the city's union leaders called his proposals a betrayal, especially when he is boasting about a budget surplus and a booming economy.
Labor leaders said that basing wage increases on merit alone would divide the city's work force and anger the many workers who believed that they deserved a sizable wage increase after accepting a two-year wage freeze in their current five-year contracts. Almost all of the city's unions are to negotiate contracts with City Hall later this year.
"His proposals are outrageous," said Charles Ensley, president of the Social Service Employees Union, which represents 15,000 social workers. "Anybody who works in city government deserves a wage increase because rents and everything else goes up. It is the sacrifices and hard work of the city's employees that have led to the renaissance of this city. It would be outrageous not to reward all municipal employees."
But Mr. Giuliani asserted that the best way to raise productivity was to reward high performers with large raises, perhaps 6 percent, while giving little, perhaps a 2 percent increase, or nothing at all, to poorer performers. He said using merit pay would work especially well in the city's schools by rewarding excellent teachers.
Labor experts said a substantial number, but far from a majority, of cities with unionized work forces had contracts with some merit pay formula, but almost always on top of an across-the-board wage increase. These experts said a program like the one outlined by the mayor, without a base pay increase, was almost unheard of.
Merit pay in public-sector union contracts has had mixed results, labor experts say. Merit pay provisions encourage many employees to work harder, but these provisions can create resentment when one group of employees receives more than another.
The presidents of the teachers' union, the main police union and District Council 37, the giant municipal employees' union, all said neither they nor their members could accept a contract without an across-the-board increase.
Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said she would consider a merit pay provision but only in a contract that included a general wage increase at least equal to inflation.
"I was expecting proposals like those you see in the private sector," she said. "That would be a base pay increase and on top of that some merit pay. It's almost a foregone conclusion that base pay has to keep up with inflation."
Ms. Weingarten, who is chairwoman of the Municipal Labor Committee, which coordinates bargaining strategy for more than 200,000 municipal workers, said she was very surprised by the mayor's proposal. "Anyone who knows anything about private-sector or public-sector salary structures knows it's not done that way," she said. "I can only conclude he's doing this because he's not serious about bargaining before next November."
She said a contract without a general wage increase would make it harder for the city to attract the estimated 54,000 new teachers it has to hire over the next five years.
Charles Brecher, research director for the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed research group, praised the merit pay proposal. "You can pay people by their output rather than pay them for just showing up," he said. "That way, you'll get more performance out of the people you have."
But union leader after union leader attacked Mr. Giuliani's plan. "It's an unfair proposal," said Pat Lynch, president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. "All New York City police officers deserve a raise. No one police officer did the job on his own. It's a team effort, and all our police officers should be rewarded, especially when you take into account what police are earning in the suburbs."
Carroll Haynes, president of a Teamsters local that represents 22,000 Housing Authority employees and other workers, said: "We took a two-year wage freeze last time to help the mayor pull the budget together. The city had 25,000 layoffs, yet we still delivered the services the city needed. That's increased productivity right there." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LABOR UNIONS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MERIT PAY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



705 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
If Starbucks, the Gap and the Disney store open up in a neighborhood, can residential real-estate offices be far behind?
Executives of several of New York City's major real estate brokerage concerns are scouring the West 125th Street area for office space. One of them, Charles H. Greenthal, has already established a beachhead there. 
 "For the last year, our feeling has been that Harlem is the next hot area of the city," said Joyce West, director of sales for Greenthal. "With this economy, with prices of real estate being what they are and with the scarcity of product in Manhattan, things had to expand. With the gentrification of 125th Street, we were convinced we could be pioneers in Harlem."
Greenthal, which opened its office in the Bishop building on West 125th Street next door to the Apollo Theater in August, is concentrating on four residential areas made up almost entirely of town houses: Hamilton Heights, Striver's Row, the Mount Morris Park/Marcus Garvey Park section and the area from 125th to 133rd Streets between Madison and Lenox Avenues.
The Corcoran Group, Douglas Elliman and the Halstead Property Company are planning to follow suit and are looking for offices to increase their visibility in the neighborhood.
"Harlem is a speculative opportunity for investors and owner-occupants who were not interested in it until just recently," said Clark Halstead, managing partner of the agency bearing his name. "It could be called the last frontier of gentrification. As a preservationist, I would say Harlem has wonderful bones, fabulous buildings and nice scale. And the perception is that it may be safe to live there whereas it wasn't before."
In addition, he said, "With every other part of Manhattan already gentrified, Harlem may have the last bargains on the island."
Town house prices were also cited by the chairwoman of the Corcoran Group, Barbara Corcoran, who compared parts of Harlem with such recently gentrified areas as the blocks north of Little Italy. "We discovered Harlem through our Web site about three months ago," she said. "We do a monthly report asking for data about what draws the most inquiries. Almost 30 percent were about Harlem. Most of the Web site traffic is from out of town, where people say they want to spend $350,000 to $500,000 and expect to live in a house. But I am also hearing from people who are accustomed to looking downtown, and the uptown version of NoLIta is Harlem."
Though prices may look like bargains compared with what similar town houses would fetch elsewhere in Manhattan, they have risen rapidly.
"In the almost three years I have been here, I have seen prices double," said Yvonne T. Maddox, manager of Greenthal's Harlem office and a town house specialist who previously worked in the area for two other real estate concerns. "Three years ago, you could have bought a town house on Hamilton Terrace for the high $200,000's. Today it would be somewhere between $600,000 and $750,000."
Since its opening, Ms. West said, the Greenthal office has had 126 listings and sold 12 properties.
A large town house at 417 West 144th Street that consists of a duplex plus eight apartments is on the market for $745,000. "In Midtown, that would be $2.5 million," Ms. Maddox said. Even buildings that look like burned-out shells have prices exceeding $200,000. A boarded-up building on the landmarked and largely renovated Astor Row that has a decrepit front porch, no stairs or floors, and that has been vacant so long that a tree has grown inside recently sold for $219,000.
Town houses make up most of available properties because there are few co-ops or condominiums in Harlem. That, in the eyes of Neil Binder, a principal at the Bellmarc brokerage agency, limits prospects for real-estate brokerage concerns in the area.
"Things may be happening on 125th street, but we don't believe that there is enough activity to warrant an office there, certainly not more than a small number of people," Mr. Binder said. "As we see it, the activity in the Harlem area itself is very sparse."
But his view does not jibe with that of R. Kenyatta Punter, chief executive of a Harlem concern that bears his name and president of the Greater Harlem Real Estate Board, which has 47 members from real-estate and allied fields. Mr. Punter, who has been selling homes in the area for a decade, described the competition as increasingly fierce.
"We are at a point where the supply of real estate to sell on the Upper East and West Sides is very limited and northern Manhattan presents an opportunity for expansion," he said. "None of those firms ventured north of 96th Street in the past, but developers always go where land on which to build is cheapest and right now that is northern Manhattan. There are projects on the table that will produce more than 2,000 home ownership units, including condos, co-ops, town houses and brownstones, by the third quarter of 2001."
Mr. Punter plans to add 15 sales representatives to his present force of 10. "I am looking to hire Hispanic, Asian and white brokers," he said. "I now get as many white as black clients calling and coming to open houses."
Vesta Callender, a psychotherapist who lives in Greenwich, Conn., and who has an office on West 56th Street, is looking for a house in Harlem. She is prepared to pay at least $400,000 for a building and expects to do some renovation.
"Greenwich is very nice, but I want to be involved in the resurgence of Harlem," she said.
Eight years ago, a cousin showed Ms. Callender a house with stained glass windows, a fireplace and other architectural details for $80,000. "I said I wouldn't move there until there was a Starbucks on the corner," she said. "Now, lo and behold, there it is."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yvonne T. Maddox, a town house specialist, said that prices had doubled in the almost three years she has worked in Harlem. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: HALSTEAD PROPERTY CO (68%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (56%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (56%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); WEB SITES (60%); 

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE CHARLES H GREENTHAL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



706 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: SUPER BOWL XXXIV: RAMS VS. TITANS -- COUNTDOWN TO THE VAGABOND BOWL;
A Pair of Clubs That Routinely Rejected Their Fans Get Set to Tee It Up

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 27

 BODY:
In the star-crossed, luxury-box, revenue-chasing world of professional sports, there is nothing so fitting as this football season's grandest spectacle, Super Bowl XXXIV, which is not sponsored by U-Haul but ought to be.
The teams vying for the National Football League championship, the Tennessee Titans and St. Louis Rams, have each relocated three times, leaving rankled fans and civic leaders in their wake in the pursuit of a publicly funded stadium. Each has an owner who could be described, charitably, as colorful. 
 The Rams' Georgia Frontiere, the only woman who is currently the principal owner of an American professional sports franchise, is a former lounge singer who inherited the team when the sixth of her seven husbands, Carroll Rosenbloom, drowned in 1979.
Asked recently if she felt bad for fans of the old Los Angeles Rams abandoned in Southern California, she replied: "The fans there are still able to watch on television. They watched on TV and didn't come to games anyway."
The Titans' owner, Bud Adams, a Texas oil man and a charter owner in the renegade American Football League, once won three division titles in four years with three different coaches and ended a stalled negotiation with a prized lineman by throwing in a herd of cattle as a signing bonus.
"We'd get them cattle, girls, whatever it took," Adams said today. "Back then, you didn't need a contract."
The Rams, by way of Cleveland and Los Angeles, and the Titans, via Houston and Memphis, meet at 6:25 p.m. Eastern time on Sunday in Atlanta's Georgia Dome. It could become a benchmark of sorts, the crowning of a Super Bowl champion that is the paragon of the modern, vagabond sports enterprise.
As the Rams and Titans have shown, the curious economics of pro football today make it possible that a franchise will flourish by choosing a smaller market, like Nashville or St. Louis, over bigger ones, like Houston and Los Angeles.
Small market teams in Major League Baseball now find it nearly impossible to compete. But in the N.F.L., smaller may be better. A city like Nashville was hungry for the status a professional team can convey, and it happily built a $292 million stadium for Adams with taxpayers' money.
Adelphia Coliseum has 144 luxury suites, the most precious commodity for a franchise owner. With billions of dollars in national television money shared equally by N.F.L. teams and a rigid salary cap restricting teams' payrolls, the rules of the game make small markets equal to their big-market brethren.
This new commercial model in sports was on exhibit last weekend, when Frontiere's Rams earned their Super Bowl berth. They did so with a victory before a sellout crowd inside the Trans World Dome, a $280 million stadium built to lure an N.F.L. franchise back to St. Louis, which had lost its Cardinals to Arizona in 1988.
"We're taking Georgia to Georgia," Rams Coach Dick Vermeil shouted to the crowd in an on-the-field ceremony. Frontiere, honored in St. Louis for bringing pro football back to the area in 1995 and for being active in a variety of philanthropic ventures, was cheered.
"She has done whatever it took to make this franchise a winner and she deserves credit for that," Vermeil said this week in Atlanta, where Frontiere has kept a low profile.
But Frontiere has been vilified in Southern California newspapers for leaving Los Angeles. But many people in Los Angeles said yesterday that they did not care about the Rams' departure.
Albert Eaton, a singer, actor and dancer, said he preferred other sports to football, but would root for the Rams on Sunday anyway.
"I guess it's an instinctive choice rather than the logical choice," he said during an interview on Wilshire Boulevard. "I don't know who the Titans are or where they're from. I guess I'm for the Rams because of the familiarity from them being here."
Asked whether people in Los Angeles were concerned that they have no football team, he said: "If they cared about football, the teams wouldn't have left."
Long before Frontiere owned the Rams, they had established a standard for the carpetbagging sports franchise. In 1946, as league champions, they deserted Cleveland and relocated to Los Angeles, where they became a Hollywood sensation.
Their star running back, Elroy (Crazy Legs) Hirsch, was recruited by movie directors, and a linebacker, Mike Henry, played Tarzan. Their quarterback, Bob Waterfield, married the starlet Jane Russell.
"Our team flights were events by themselves," quarterback Roman Gabriel said of the Rams' halcyon days. "You would just wait to see if Jane was coming."
The Rams became such a hot property that Rosenbloom, who owned the storied Baltimore Colts, swapped them for the Rams in 1972.
On April 2, 1979, the Rams were nine months away from their first Super Bowl appearance when Rosenbloom drowned while swimming in the ocean by himself. Because he was known to be a strong swimmer, there were rumors of foul play and a series of celebrated investigations, but the case was officially designated an accidental drowning.
The Rams moved from Memorial Coliseum in Los Angeles to Anaheim Stadium 35 miles away in 1980 and had several winning playoff seasons. But Frontiere fired most of her husband's football executives and her management style was erratic. She once told a gathering of fans that she consulted an astrologer on player trades.
By 1995, the Rams had lost 10 or more games for five consecutive years. Frontiere took the team to her hometown, St. Louis, where a new domed stadium awaited with a sweetheart lease.
The Rams lost far more often than they won in St. Louis, until this season's magical ride to the Super Bowl.
"It's a lesson in perseverance," Vermeil said of the Rams' saga.
Maybe, but the result in St. Louis is a misplaced mix of traditions.
Inside the Trans World Dome, there is a sort of Football Hall of Fame. But it is half St. Louis and half Rams: Hirsch, who played in Los Angeles, is next to Larry Wilson, the safety who played with the Cardinals in St. Louis. Before last Sunday's playoff game, Lawrence McCutcheon, the former Los Angeles Rams star, was a ceremonial captain on the field with Dan Dierdorf, the ex-Cardinals guard.
Whose team is this anyway?
That's today's N.F.L. You can't know your franchise's history without an atlas.
Adams knows as much. He talked today about his 40 years in pro football, making no apologies for turning his players into gypsies. They jumped from Houston to Memphis in 1997, then to Nashville's Vanderbilt University football stadium in 1998, before settling into Adelphia Coliseum this season.
"It's what we had to do," Adams said. "I didn't want to leave Houston. But we couldn't get the revenue we could with a new stadium."
While the Titans have made it to the Super Bowl -- something the Oilers never did -- Adams almost seemed to bemoan pro football's loss of innocence.
He told a story of how he negotiated with players, baiting them with stacks of money in his desk. He would place $100 bills on the top of several piles of $1 bills to coax players to sign.
Adams also used to take news media relations into his own hands. "I bashed a reporter in the jaw back in '62," he said. "You can't do that these days.
"I've seen the game change. I can't say it's changed for the worse. Because I know where we were. And look where we are now."
In Houston, where Adams's team used to be, fans of the old Oilers said they would be rooting hard for the Titans on Sunday, though not for their owner.
"I love the Oilers," said Marcus Ramirez, a patron at Champs Americana, a popular sports bar. "I hate the owner, Bud Adams. He's the one person I'd want to fire.
"You see people wearing old Oilers jackets. Until we get our own team again in Houston, everyone will be pulling out the stops for the Titans."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Georgia Frontiere, the Rams' owner, says fans in California rooted via TV instead of in person. (Reuters); Titans' Bud Adams arrived at his new home via Houston, Memphis and two interim stadiums. (Reuters); Houston's Oilers never got to a Super Bowl. (Associated Press); Stars watched Roman Gabriel in the 1960's. (United Press International)(pg. D1); Before they moved to L.A., the Rams were based in Cleveland and visited New York's Polo Grounds, above.
(Bettman/CORBIS)(pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ST LOUIS RAMS; TENNESSEE TITANS TRANS WORLD RADIO (50%); TENNESSEE TITANS (94%); ST LOUIS RAMS (94%); TENNESSEE TITANS (94%); TENNESSEE OILERS (90%); HOUSTON OILERS (59%); TENNESSEE OILERS (59%); HOUSTON OILERS (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS RAMS; TENNESSEE TITANS TENNESSEE TITANS (94%); ST LOUIS RAMS (94%); TENNESSEE TITANS (94%); TENNESSEE OILERS (90%); HOUSTON OILERS (59%); TENNESSEE OILERS (59%); HOUSTON OILERS (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; SUPER BOWL AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); BASEBALL (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); FRANCHISING (58%); 

PERSON: PENNINGTON, BILL; FRONTIERE, GEORGIA; ADAMS, BUD K S ADAMS JR (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



707 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Giuliani's Election-Year Budget

 BODY:
An ebullient Mayor Rudolph Giuliani took the press and other onlookers through an elaborate slide show of his new four-year financial plan yesterday, missing no opportunity to congratulate himself for saving New York City from the financial mess left by his predecessors. He pointed with pride to this year's $2.2 billion surplus and said his plan would keep spending growing in line with inflation, cut taxes, avoid accounting gimmicks and reform the way the city negotiates with unions.
Some of these contentions are fair. Others exaggerate. Over all, the budget he offered is responsible but flawed, with elements designed for election-year politics. The budget will surely irritate the unions. The City Council, though objecting to some of the details, will embrace many of the tax cuts and other major provisions. 
 The mayor's big news yesterday was a proposal to eliminate the 14 percent personal income tax surcharge starting as early as this year. He also called for cutting a number of business taxes, for a total tax cut that would reach $2 billion a year by 2004. The plan calls for spending more on Medicaid by enrolling more eligible families.
The most controversial provision proposed to replace across-the-board pay increases with a system of merit pay. The idea would be to offer substantial wage increases to good workers and no increases to poor workers. Details of the merit pay plan, including who would control the grading system, would be left to collective bargaining.
The proposal is both unrealistic and nakedly political, designed to appeal to conservatives and union-bashers in the upcoming senatorial campaign. The unions will not accept the proposal, and it is disruptive to introduce it into labor negotiations when the mayor is approaching the end of his time in office one way or another. It would be far better for him, in dealing with public-employee unions, to use wage increases to push for general productivity gains, as he has in the past, instead of singling out a minority of workers for merit raises.
Mr. Giuliani also wants workers to pick up some of their medical costs, as is common in private industry. Additionally, he wants the Board of Education, in return for more money, to turn over some of the city's worst-performing schools and some summer programs to private contractors, and has set aside $6 million for a school voucher program.
The budget's most serious flaw is that it leaves a long-term financial imbalance largely in place. The mayor's own projections show the city running deficits in excess of $2 billion by 2002. By cutting taxes, the plan would make those deficits worse. It proposes to use the current surplus to cover ordinary operating expenses over the next two years -- another fiscally imprudent idea. The surplus is temporary. Sound budget policy would use it to pay off debt or create a "rainy day" fund to offset the revenue loss from a future slide on Wall Street or an economic downturn. The plan does little to bring the city's long-term spending in line with expected revenues. The longer the imbalance is allowed to fester, the steeper and harsher the eventual cuts will be.
The tax cuts and tough stance toward unions will play well in Mr. Giuliani's senatorial campaign. But however well the plan serves the mayor's political ambitions, it will leave his successor with a needlessly deep financial hole. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MERIT PAY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (86%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); POLITICS (75%); MEDICAID (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); INCOME TAX (69%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (66%); PRODUCTIVITY (65%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



708 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Talks on Biotech Food Turn on a Safety Principle

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: MONTREAL, Jan. 27

 BODY:
Around midnight last night, Juan Mayr, who is chairman of the global biosafety talks here, told delegates after a long day of negotiations to go back to their hotel rooms and "dream about the precautionary approach."
It was a reference to one of the most important issues remaining in the effort to formulate the world's first treaty regulating trade in genetically modified products: Must a nation have scientific proof before it can ban a genetically engineered crop or animal? Or can it act even in the absence of scientific certainty? 
 The "precautionary principle," which allows erring on the side of safety in the absence of scientific certainty, has been enshrined in numerous environmental laws and treaties since the 1970's, but often more as a vague statement of philosophy than as a recipe for action. Depending on the outcome of negotiations here, an agreement on bio safety might contain a strong formulation authorizing the precautionary principle to be used in decision making, setting a precedent for other international agreements.
It could also set a precedent for domestic debates in the United States, where controversy over food made using biotechnology is growing. Virtually no evidence exists that such foods are harmful. But critics say there is not enough information about possible health effects, so the foods should be banned or more tightly regulated.
In negotiations over the biosafety agreement, the United States and several other big agricultural exporting nations say that incorporating the precautionary principle too strongly would allow countries to ban imports of genetically modified corn, soybeans or other crops simply based on fear or protectionism.
"There have been some proposals that we think would redefine the concept," Frank E. Loy, under secretary of state for global affairs, said today. "It would have the effect of justifying restrictions on biotechnology, including import bans, without any scientific basis."
But European countries and the developing countries, which have been pitted against the United States and a handful of its allies all week, say precaution is justified because not enough is known about the environmental effects of genetic engineering. And if a "superweed" or dangerous bacteria were to get loose in the environment, it could not be recalled like a defective car. "Countries must be able to have the freedom, the sovereign right to take precautionary measures," said Christoph Bail, the lead negotiator for the European Union. Once damage occurs, he said, "it would be too late to do anything about it."
European officials say they are not advocating abandoning an approach based on science. "You cannot take action based on just fear," said Margot Wallstrom, the environmental commissioner of the European Union. "You need some evidence, you need some scientific basis for action."
Some officials point out that the United States itself has endorsed the precautionary principle in treaties such as the Kyoto agreement on climate change. Steps are being taken to control gases that contribute to planetary warming, even though it could be argued that the evidence that such warming will occur is not conclusive.
Washington wants to make sure any agreement on biosafety does not take precedence over the World Trade Organization rules. That is because under W.T.O. rules an import can be banned only on the basis of scientific evidence. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (74%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (74%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL (CANADA); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (74%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (74%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; GENETIC ENGINEERING; LIVESTOCK; TREATIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BIOETHICS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (86%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



709 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: THE REACTION;
Before a Word Is Uttered, G.O.P. Pounces on Clinton Speech as a Spendthrift Blueprint

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
Republicans tonight criticized the agenda President Clinton outlined for his last year in office as spendthrift, and heralded their party as the true steward of fiscal responsibility, guardian of the elderly and champion of millions of uninsured Americans.
After Mr. Clinton delivered his last State of the Union address this evening, Republicans seized on its details to warn voters that Democrats could not be trusted to oversee the nation's prosperity and the federal budget surpluses that have accompanied it. 
 "The litany of spending programs the President announced tonight proves my point that if you leave a large surplus in Washington, the money will be spent on bigger government," Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the Republican presidential front-runner, said in a statement. "The President's tax cut is too small, and it will not help the economy grow or make the tax code more fair."
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, expressing amazement at an array of more than 60 proposed new initiatives from a $50 million plan to clean up the Great Lakes to a $20 million proposal to fight infectious diseases, said: "As Washington digs out of the latest winter blizzard, the Congress will dig out of an avalanche of presidential spending initiatives. We will sift through the president's requests and make a determination what is necessary and what is not."
The reaction from Republicans previewed the yearlong battle between the two parties over how best to use the trillions of dollars in projected surpluses, already a core theme on the campaign trail.
Both parties have vowed to protect Social Security and pay down the $3.6 trillion national debt, but Democrats would use much of the non-Social Security surplus to increase spending on domestic programs, while Republicans are eager to plow much of those monies into tax cuts.
For the televised Republican response to Mr. Clinton, party leaders picked Senators Bill Frist of Tennessee and Susan Collins of Maine, experts on health care and education, issues usually associated with Democrats. The choice underscored Republicans' desire to show a moderate face on two issues that have emerged as immensely popular with voters.
The two senators took sharply different approaches. Senator Collins never even mentioned Mr. Clinton or the more than $3 billion in education spending increases he proposed tonight. She indirectly criticized the administration for "dictating to communities how they should run their schools," advocating instead pushing for more control over education decisions to local communities.
"Republicans want what all parents want for their children's schools: more federal help but less federal interference," she said.
By contrast, Senator Frist, a doctor, repeatedly attacked Mr. Clinton's health care proposals.
"The last time he proposed a health plan was seven years ago," Mr. Frist said, referring to the ill-fated effort headed by Hillary Rodham Clinton. "And then it amounted to a federal government takeover of our entire health care system."
But Mr. Frist also edged closer to embracing a version of two Democratic health-care proposals: a patients' bill of rights that allows patients to sue their health care plan under certain conditions, and expanding Medicare to include prescription drug coverage.
"We're going to keep doctors first, lawyers second," Mr. Frist told reporters of the Republican plan to regulate health maintenance organizations.
Republicans lawmakers in tough re-election fights were quick to embrace Mr. Clinton's education and health care goals, while distancing themselves from other increases in domestic spending.
"While I am in agreement with many of his goals -- for example, improving the quality of education for our children and creating some kind of prescription drug benefit for America's seniors -- generally it is important that we restrict increases in spending, lest we seriously slow our economic growth," said Senator William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware, who is facing a tough campaign this fall.
Republicans and even many Democrats rolled their eyes at Mr. Clinton's verbosity tonight. ("Long, but strong," Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of Westchester, said of the 90-minute speech.) But virtually absent from tonight's Republican reaction was any mention of the Monica Lewinsky scandal, which dominated discussion outside the chamber at the last two State of the Union addresses.
And while most Republicans were not ready to give Bill Clinton a hearty send-off, some lawmakers held out a symbolic olive branch.
Many Republicans, including Representative David Dreier of California, cheered Mr. Clinton's support for bringing China into the World Trade Organization.
"Make no mistake," said Mr. Dreier, who heads the House Rules Committee. "Republicans will work in good faith with this president and every Democrat in Congress who puts ideas ahead of politics."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, greeted colleagues in the floor last night before President Clinton entered the chamber. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); FINANCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (88%); HEALTH CARE (85%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); CHILDREN (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LOTT, TRENT (SEN) BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TRENT LOTT (74%); SUSAN COLLINS (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



710 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: NEWS ANALYSIS;
Grand Ideas, Little Time

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
With one eye on his own legacy and another on the political aspirations of his vice president, President Clinton claimed credit tonight for leading the nation onto the broad uplands of unparalleled prosperity and laid out an election-year manifesto for his party.
Inevitably, he spoke of successfully crossing his bridge to the 21st century. Inevitably, he spoke at great length. Inevitably, he put some Democratic spots on Republican ideas. Inevitably, too, he set sweeping goals -- no child raised in poverty, affordable health care for everyone, a cleaner and safer planet -- without providing much of a road map toward realizing them. 
 It was Mr. Clinton's last State of the Union address -- his final crack at an annual political ritual that he loves, in part because he is so good at it. Barring some national political crisis, he will have only two more occasions before he leaves office next year to address the nation at length, rather than in the snippets that appear on television and in news articles: at this summer's Democratic National Convention and in a farewell address later.
He summed up his message in a single paragraph, just 60 words.
"We are fortunate to be alive at this moment in history," the President said as soon as the welcoming applause had died. "Never before has our nation enjoyed, at once, so much prosperity and social progress with so little internal crisis and so few external threats. Never before have we had such a blessed opportunity -- and therefore, such a profound obligation -- to build the more perfect union of our founders' dreams."
Then Mr. Clinton listed his economic achievements, as unabashedly as a salesman hawking his wares: rapid growth, low inflation, low unemployment, decreased poverty, "the first back-to-back surpluses in 42 years" and, as of next month, "the longest period of economic growth in our entire history."
Mr. Clinton spoke with all the expansiveness of a man who had hit the lottery or answered Regis Philbin's million-dollar question. With dollars cascading into the Treasury in a profusion that was unimaginable when his second term began, Mr. Clinton proposed several tax cuts -- though no across-the-board reductions of the sort espoused by the Congressional Republicans -- and substantial federal initiatives in more than a dozen fields.
He sounded more like the Bill Clinton who told Congress on Feb. 17, 1993, "Tonight I want to talk to you about what government can do, because I believe government can do more," than the Bill Clinton who declared not once but three times in his State of the Union speech on Jan. 23, 1996, that "the era of big government is over."
Republicans, including Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the leading contender for his party's presidential nomination, described Mr. Clinton's agenda as that of a spendthrift.
But as always, he restaked his claim to the middle ground, the political terrain where he built his political victories as he led his party back to power after 12 years of Republican control of the White House.
"We restored the vital center," Mr. Clinton said pointedly in a summary of his seven-going-on-eight years in the Oval Office, "replacing outdated ideologies with a new vision anchored in basic, enduring values: opportunity for all, responsibility from all and a community of all Americans."
Mr. Clinton, who knows a parade when he sees one approaching, leaped to the head of another one tonight. He signed on to a Republican proposal, one of several, to ease the so-called marriage penalty in the tax code, just as he had embraced other pet Republican programs -- national missile defense, a scaled-down version of the old "Star Wars" program; the balanced budget; reform of the Internal Revenue Service, and opposition to same-sex marriages.
But like many of his other initiatives, his marriage-penalty proposal had a sharp political twist, because it was aimed squarely at the poor and lower-income families. It would apply only to taxpayers who do not itemize their deductions, a provision that would exclude most mortgage-payers. Other remedies for the problem would have covered more people and cost more.
This was not only Mr. Clinton's last State of the Union address, but he took pains to note that it w as the first of the new millennium. Yet it was more matter-of-fact than some of his past efforts, with fewer rhetorical furbelows. Perhaps scholars are correct when they suggest that this president does best when he is in trouble.
At the height of the confrontation with Congress in 1996, facing what looked like a potentially difficult re-election campaign, he put himself in a commanding position for November by declaring a consensus on a number of issues that the Republicans on Capitol Hill had expected to struggle over. In 1998 and 1999, reeling from the Monica Lewinsky case, he not only delivered fluent speeches, which many had thought beyond his powers in such a fraught situation, but also reframed the budget debate by telling the Republican tax-cutters: Save Social Security first.
A different view is taken by Michael A. Waldman, a former director of speechwriting for the White House, who was involved to some degree in drafting all Mr. Clinton's State of the Union Messages.
"I really think that after the 1994 election you see an effort to reconstruct the presidency and its role through these speeches," Mr. Waldman said. "Not the heroic presidency any more that passes grand programs, but a presidency refocused on what a lot of pundits deride as small issues, but which are in part an effort to bit by bit restore people's confidence that government can do things."
That focus on the possible and the manageable, of course, seems to some a lack of vision, particularly when it comes to foreign policy.
Tonight's speech was devoid of new initiatives in that area. A series of excerpted highlights produced by the White House press office mentioned drugs and education and gun control, but included not a word about foreign affairs. The speech itself urged a new effort to close the gap between the world's have and have-nots, but proposed no new money for aid to poor nations.
Mr. Clinton emphasized the need to work to strengthen democracy in Russia rather than vigorously condemning Russian policy in Chechnya, and he devoted little time to assuaging Russian fears, shared by Western Europe, that the United States had turned its back on efforts to control nuclear arms.
Evidently, the president hopes that his role in bringing a tenuous peace to Northern Ireland and nudging Israel and Syria toward a peace agreement will be seen as his foreign policy legacy. He hoped to add luster to that in his speech tonight, while aiding the campaign of Al Gore, who stood behind him. A Gore victory would of course redound to President Clinton's credit, and it was Mr. Gore's gun control proposal, rather than that of his rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, that the president supported.
But historians increasingly see Mr. Clinton as "a politically talented underachiever" who dealt mainly in "incremental policy departures."
Those phrases come from a new book by Prof. Fred I. Greenstein of Princeton University, to be published in May by The Free Press. Titled "The Presidential Difference: Leadership Style from F.D.R. to Clinton," it sums up this president as follows:
"It is a tribute to Clinton's resiliency and political prowess that he has succeeded in serving two presidential terms. It is a commentary on his weaknesses that this talented political leader has not had more to show for his time in office." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); ENVIRONMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TRENDS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); TAX LAW (60%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); REGIS PHILBIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



711 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: WIDE-RANGING IDEAS;
Marriage-Penalty Proposal Could Ease Way to Tax Cut

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
In proposing tonight to reduce the marriage penalty that the tax code levies on many two-income couples, President Clinton embraced an issue that has been pushed for years by Republicans and so opened the door to a compromise on an election-year tax cut.
The approach set out by Mr. Clinton would help fewer couples than alternative changes preferred by most Republicans, and in particular would do little for couples in higher income brackets. 
 But with Republicans in the House having vowed to make a marriage-penalty bill one of their first priorities this year -- and with Democrats in Congress loath to vote against such legislation at a time of swelling federal budget surpluses -- Mr. Clinton's plan could provide the seeds for a bipartisan compromise.
"It shows that this issue has a lot of political resonance," said Stephen Moore, director of fiscal policy studies at the conservative Cato Institute. "Clinton is very adept at taking politically popular Republican ideas and embracing them as his own. This is a strong signal to me that we will see marriage-penalty relief this year."
The marriage-penalty proposal was one of dozens set out by Mr. Clinton in his State of the Union address, but one of the few that he had not previously announced.
Others included a revised version of a plan he first offered last year to create incentives for retirement savings among low- and middle-income people. They also included initiatives to make health insurance more affordable, provide prescription drug coverage within the Medicare system, increase financing for school construction, expand the tax credit for the working poor and provide more money for medical research.
Many of the proposals -- few of which have much chance of becoming law in their present form -- are intended to channel money toward problems facing low-income people, reflecting Mr. Clinton's emphasis tonight on spreading the benefits of national prosperity.
But the marriage penalty is mostly an issue among middle-to-high-income voters, and one that is more complex than it is often made out to be.
The marriage penalty hits many two-income couples, especially those in which the two partners earn roughly the same amount of money, pushing them into a higher tax bracket than they would face if they could file as single rather than as married.
A study last year by the Treasury Department concluded that 24.8 million couples paid a marriage penalty on their 1999 returns, or 48 percent of the 51.4 million joint returns filed. The average penalty was $1,141.
But the study also found that the same quirk in the tax code that hurts many couples also helps many others, mostly those where only one spouse works or where one spouse earns substantially more than the other. The study found that 21 million couples, or 41 percent of all couples filing jointly, actually received a marriage bonus, which averaged $1,274. About 11 percent of couples paid neither a penalty nor a bonus.
The main component of Mr. Clinton's plan would help 9.1 million two-income couples, those who claim the standard deduction on their federal returns. It would address the marriage penalty by increasing the standard deduction -- $7,200 in 1999 for couples filing jointly -- until it was twice as much as the standard deduction for single filers, currently $4,300. The change would be phased in over five years.
The proposal would do nothing for couples who itemize their deductions, as most higher-income households do.
The proposal would also give a break to single-income couples who do not pay a marriage penalty. It would increase the standard deduction for all couples by an additional $500 in 2005, and by $250 for single filers.
When fully phased in, Mr. Clinton's proposal would increase the standard deduction for two-income couples who file jointly by $2,150. For those in the 15 percent tax bracket, the tax saving would be $322 a year when the proposal was fully phased in.
The White House estimated the cost of the proposal at $45 billion over 10 years.
Republicans have offered a variety of proposals to address the marriage penalty in recent years. Republicans in the Senate last year proposed eliminating the penalty altogether by giving couples the option of filing joint or individual returns. They estimated the cost at $117.7 billion over five years starting in 2005.
Among the Republican presidential candidates, Senator John McCain of Arizona backs a plan similar to what Mr. Clinton proposed. But Gov. George W. Bush of Texas would take a different approach. He would create a deduction for two-earner couples of 10 percent of the lower-earning spouse's income, up to a maximum deduction of $3,000. The cost of Mr. Bush's proposal is estimated at $12.5 billion a year after it is fully phased in.
Republicans in Congress said they were glad to see Mr. Clinton acknowledging the importance of tax cuts in general and of reducing the marriage penalty in particular. But they said they would insist on a bigger and more extensive tax-cutting package than the president offered tonight.
Republicans "think all Americans deserve tax relief, not just the handful the president picks," said Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Mr. Archer said he would begin work on a marriage-penalty bill next week.
Mr. Clinton also proposed a number of other tax initiatives in his address.
One would provide tax incentives for charitable giving, including allowing taxpayers who do not itemize deductions to claim a 50 percent deduction for charitable contributions above $500 a year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "DETAILS -- Something for Everyone"
President Clinton mentioned dozens of proposals in his State of the Union address, from gun control and the environment to medical research and tax cuts. Among his major proposals:
 
ADMINISTRATION'S 10-YEAR COST ESTIMATE
 
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS -- Offer prescription drug coverage to all Medicare beneficiaries. The Congressional Budget Office says the cost would be much higher than the administration's estimate. $118 BILLION
 
HEALTH INSURANCE -- Help millions of Americans get health insurance by creating new tax breaks and by expanding existing programs. Mr. Clinton would let parents enroll in a children's health program created in 1997. $110 BILLION
 
RETIREMENT SAVINGS ACCOUNTS -- Provide for a match of a portion of contributions to a new type of retirement account for couples earning less than $80,000 and individuals earning less than $40,000. A scaled-back version of a plan offered by Mr. Clinton last year. $54 BILLION
 
TAX CREDITS FOR THE WORKING POOR -- Expand the earned-income tax credit, which provides cash payments to families below and just above the poverty line. Expansion would focus on families with three or more children. $21 BILLION
 
COLLEGE EDUCATION -- Offer tax credits and various grants to help families pay for college and graduate school. $30 BILLION
 
SCHOOL MODERNIZATION -- Offer federal subsidies for bond issues to modernize up to 6,000 schools, and interest-free loans and grants to support repair and renovation projects in school districts with the most urgent need. $3.7 BILLION OVER 5 YEARS
 
Chart: "SORTING IT OUT -- Easing the Marriage Penalty"
Details of President Clinton's proposal:
 
THE PROBLEM -- Many two-income couples pay a higher income-tax bill than they would if they were filing as single taxpayers. For some couples, it is because the standard deduction for couples filing jointly is less than twice as much as the deduction for single filers. For others, it is because their combined incomes push them into a higher tax bracket. A Treasury Department study found that 24.8 million couples, or nearly half of all couples filing joint returns, paid a marriage penalty last year.
 
THE PRESIDENT'S PROPOSAL -- President Clinton's plan would help people who suffer from the imbalance in the standard deduction, gradually increasing the deduction for two-income couples filing jointly until it is twice the deduction for single filers. For the 1999 tax year, the deduction for couples filing jointly is $7,200; for single filers, it is $4,300.
 
THE RESULTS -- Including other provisions, the Clinton plan would result in an increase in the standard deduction, after five years, of $2,150 for two-income couples filing jointly. For taxpayers in the 15 percent bracket, that would mean a tax cut of $322. For taxpayers in the 28 percent bracket, it would mean a cut of $602.
 
COMPETING PLANS -- Republicans have offered a variety of competing plans. George W. Bush proposed allowing two-income couples to deduct up to 10 percent of the lower-earning spouse's income, to a maximum of $30,000, for a deduction of up to $3,000. Senate Republicans last year proposed giving couples the option of filing separately, at single rates, if it would reduce their tax bill. John McCain backs an approach similar to Mr. Clinton's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CATO INSTITUTE (56%); CATO INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CATO INSTITUTE (56%); CATO INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); TAXATION; MARRIAGES; SINGLE PERSONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); MARRIAGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); MEDICARE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



712 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From the Republican Party's Response to the President's Address

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Republican reply to President Clinton's State of the Union Address delivered by Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Bill Frist of Tennessee, as recorded by The New York Times:
 
Ms. Collins
As we reflect on our economic health, we should never forget that America's recent success is, above all, a triumph of values. Americans will never let our country become rich in things and poor in spirit. 
 The achievements of the "dot-com" generation rest on the foundation built by our parents and our grandparents. They prevailed through the Depression, defeated the forces of fascism and made personal freedom the hallmark of countries around the globe. . . .
To promote job growth, we'll continue to help our small businesses. That means reducing burdens like the federal "death tax" -- so that when parents work their whole lives to leave their children a family business, it won't have to be sold just to pay the I.R.S.
Taxes, in general, are simply too high. We will continue to fight for tax relief for American families so that they can keep more of what they earn. . . .
As important as all these issues are, there's something else that is vital to securing our future, and that is education. Prior to coming to the Senate, I worked at Husson College in Bangor, Me. I know first-hand the difference that education can make.
We live in a time of unparalleled prosperity. But between Silicon Valley and Wall Street, many Americans still live in the shadows of the new prosperity. New technologies, unimagined a decade ago, provide exciting opportunities for some but pose unsettling challenges to others.
As we enter the 21st century, every young American must be educated to adapt to a changing workplace, and many in our current workforce must be provided with new skills to succeed in the new economy.
A good education is the ladder of opportunity. It turns dreams into reality. That's why education is at the top of the Republican agenda.
Tonight I ask the president to join with Republicans in our commitment to bring a good education to all our children. Our four-point plan for educational excellence will ensure that all children have an equal opportunity to reach their full potential.
First, we will continue to increase federal funds for elementary and secondary education. Last year, Republicans boosted education spending by $500 million more than the president's budget, and we added funds for children with special needs.
Second, rather than Washington dictating to communities how they should run their schools, we should listen to those who know best: our parents, our teachers and local school boards.
The debate in Washington is not about money. It's about who makes the decisions. We need a change of approach -- one that recognizes that local schools, not Washington offices, are the heart and home of education. We will empower states and communities to use federal education dollars in the ways children need most. . . .
Republicans want what all parents want for their children's schools: more federal help but less federal interference. Instead of imposing a one-size-fits-all straitjacket, our plan recognizes that one community may need more math teachers while another may need better reading programs -- and still others, new computers. The point is it should be your community's decision, not Washington's.
In return for that flexibility, the Republican plan requires real accountability -- not more paperwork, but better results. Schools will be held responsible for what is truly important -- improving student achievement.
Third, our plan will strengthen teaching excellence.
America's teachers need our help. About one-third of our new teachers get so discouraged that they leave the profession. Many are prevented from doing their very best because they don't have a chance to get enough training in the subject they teach.
We will increase federal grants to states and communities and give them the freedom to use that money to better prepare, recruit and retain good teachers. The lessons are clear -- we must encourage talented people to choose teaching as a career and keep them in the classroom.
Fourth, our plan will continue the longtime Republican support for higher education. Last year we increased Pell grants and student loans to open the doors to college for more low- and middle-income families. This year we will increase the amount that families can contribute to education savings accounts to make higher education more affordable.
Education today is America's broadband to the fixture -- a powerful conduit for achievement and success. Let us work together to ensure that all Americans have the opportunity for a bright future. . . .
 
Mr. Frist
I'm a senator from the state of Tennessee, but I've spent the better part of my life working in hospitals, caring for people with heart disease.
I've learned a lot by listening to my patients and to the people who work in hospitals.
Earlier tonight we heard the president talk about his latest health care proposals. The last time he proposed a health plan was seven years ago. And then it amounted to a federal government takeover of our entire health system. It would have forced every American into a Washington-run H.M.O. and denied them the right to choose their own doctor.
In the end, thank goodness, it was soundly defeated by Democrats and Republicans alike.
Now tonight, 84 months later, the president has unveiled a similar plan just as bad as the first. It makes government even bigger and more bloated because each new proposal we heard tonight -- and there were about 11 them in health care alone -- comes with its own massive bureaucracy. And each will cost you, the taxpayer, billions more of your tax dollars -- more than $1,000 for every man, woman and child.
During my surgical fellowship, I worked in England for the British National Health Service, and I saw firsthand the rationing, the lack of choice, the long waits and the denial of care for seniors.
I learned that socialized medicine -- whether in England or in Canada, where patients are fleeing to the U.S. for treatment -- just does not work.
In fact, if David Letterman had lived in Canada, he'd still be waiting for his heart surgery. . . .
So a lot is good. A lot is working. But we still have to make it even better.
As Republicans in Congress, we're determined not to be guided by bigger government, but by your freedom to choose your kind of health care and to select the doctor of your choice. Already because of Republican efforts, five million more children now have access to health care; if you change jobs, you can now take your health insurance with you; new mothers can leave the hospital when their doctor, not some bureaucrat, says they're ready. And we're doubling medical research for more and better cures. A great start, but not enough.
As a doctor, I've cared for thousands of seniors. I know Medicare is their lifeline, their security.
But this 35-year-old program, with 130,000 pages of regulations, creates waste and abuse and leaves our seniors with confusing red tape and heartache. Worst of all, Medicare doesn't even include the mainstay of modern medicine -- outpatient prescription drugs.
The answer is NOT government-dictated price controls that stop life-saving research, or forcing the 65 percent of seniors who now have drug coverage to pay more or give up what they have.
Instead, both Republicans and Democrats in Congress have come together with a plan to build on two simple principles: choice and security. It lets people choose the type of medical plan that is best for them, including prescription drugs. No senior citizen, no mother, no person with a disability, will ever be told by a bureaucrat what plan to pick, what doctor to see or what service they can receive.
But just last year the president said "no" to this plan, put forth by the National Bipartisan Medicare Commission -- the very commission the president and Congress appointed to save Medicare.
However, I'm proud to say that I've asked for and received full assurances today from our majority leader, Trent Lott, that he is prepared to bring this needed bipartisan legislation to the Senate floor within two weeks. For this to happen, Mr. President, all we need is for you to tell the American people, "Yes," to this Democrat and Republican plan to fix Medicare. So that people like my fellow Tennesseean, Patricia Brown, whom we honor in the gallery this evening will have the vital prescription drug coverage she needs.
And tonight, to show you and others that we are sincere and that we mean business, Republicans take a first step toward making Medicare stronger. To guarantee that seniors can rely on Medicare forever, we will add it to the Social Security lockbox, which will lock away the surplus for both Social Security and Medicare. We will not let anyone spend your Medicare money. . . .
During the Clinton years, the number of individuals without health insurance has increased by six million people. But with the plan we announced yesterday, we will finally make it easier for low- and middle- income families to buy the coverage of their choice.
I believe we will dramatically improve medical care in America. How could anyone not be hopeful, with what we've seen? Just look at our ability to correct heart defects in children, to halt the progression of osteoporosis and to treat breast and prostate cancer.
Soon we'll see revolutionary new treatments for conditions like Alzheimer's, sickle cell anemia and schizophrenia.
But all of these innovations require freedom, because progress and freedom go hand in hand. . . .
And so tonight, Mr. President, I ask you to put your trust in the American people -- in their creativity, in their resourcefulness, in their ability to achieve -- free of government interference.
Mr. President, please, no more red tape.
Instead, give us a health plan that includes choice and security.
The American people deserve no less. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 1054 SAVINGS FOR SCHOLARS ACT (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

CITY: BANGOR, ME, USA (58%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MAINE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); BANGOR, ME, USA (58%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); ESTATE TAX (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); TAX LAW (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (71%); GRANDPARENTS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); TAX RELIEF (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); COLLINS, SUSAN (SEN); FRIST, BILL (SEN) SUSAN COLLINS (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



713 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: THE VIEWERS;
Family Watching Sees Scandal

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: BOUND BROOK, N.J., Jan. 27

 BODY:
Al Gomolka thinks President Clinton has done a good job managing the economy and gave him credit for requiring background checks on gun purchases and for having a strong foreign policy.
But he cannot buy the president's support for abortion rights. 
 His wife, Shelley Gomolka, agreed with the president on abortion rights and on equal rights issues, particularly for women. And she admitted that the Clinton administration had done a good job managing the economy.
If Mr. Clinton has started thinking about how American families will remember him and his presidency, he could start with the Gomolkas.
Like thousands of other families, the Gomolkas sat down tonight to listen to the president's final State of the Union speech. The Gomolkas let their two older boys, Jacob, 4, and Joshua, 9, stay up late to watch the address. A third son, Isaac, is 2.
In a speech in which the president offered several proposals intended to ensure that the nation's prosperity is shared by all, the Gomolkas found ideas that could help them in the daily lives.
But they also expressed skepticism about whether those proposals would ever become reality.
While the couple often agreed with the president, their views were often tainted by concerns about his moral character.
"His moral character is just pitiful," Mrs. Gomolka, 44, a part-time landscape horticulturist.
"I have to admit that economic issues aren't too bad," she said, "and I agree with him on women's rights, but it bothers me that so many people say, 'Well, he did O.K.,' and then vote for him."
During the speech, the couple expressed a mix of often contradictory feelings and beliefs about politics and the presidency.
They are lifelong Democrats but voted for Ronald Reagan twice, for Ross Perot in 1992 and for Bob Dole in 1996.
Mr. Gomolka, 48, a state parks superintendent, believes he is "on the conservative side," but said he planned to vote for Bill Bradley, if Mr. Bradley wins the Democratic presidential nomination, because of his tenure as a United States senator from New Jersey.
He strongly believes in the right to own firearms, but he nodded approvingly when the president spoke of the success of the Brady gun control measure, which required a five-day waiting period for the purchase of handguns.
"The Brady law was good," Mr. Gomolka said. "It may bother the criminals, but to the person who just wants a recreational gun, it's not going to bother them how long it takes."
The president is charismatic, they agreed, and is persuasive, yet his words tonight were often discounted.
"I think it all sounds great, but it's just hard to believe him," Mrs. Gomolka said, interrupting herself when the president stopped to acknowledge his wife.
"Oh puh-leez, look at him smile," Mrs. Gomolka said.
"It all comes down to truthfulness, and I have to ask, Where does fidelity come into all this?" she said. "It all just comes down to credibility."
As the president ticked off his agenda, the bread-and-butter economic issues hit home in the Gomolka household.
Although they are solidly middle-class, with excellent medical coverage and a generous pension for Mr. Gomolka, they are worried about money and were glad to hear the president offer to help with such things as college tuition credits, prescription drug assistance and care for elderly parents.
"He talks about helping low-income people but if she doesn't work for two days, we're living paycheck to paycheck," Mr. Gomolka said.
And when the president urged a law to guarantee equal pay for women, Mr. Gomolka picked up: his sister, Susie, works at one of New Jersey's big pharmaceutical companies and often complains of earning less than men in equal positions.
Tax credits for college tuition also won praise from the couple, but also a concern that, however, bright the presidents' promises, they might never become law.
"It all sounds good but I'd like to see it in writing," Mrs. Gomolka said. "It doesn't matter how good it sounds if he is not going to be around to make it happen."
Like other growing communities, Bound Brook is experiencing school overcrowding that is straining local budgets and pushing up real estate taxes.
For the president to promise 100,000 new teachers without speaking of new school buildings made no sense, Mrs. Gomolka said.
"We'd have to build new additions on the additions just to have the classrooms," she said.
Yet the president's endorsement of charter schools pleased her: she schooled Joshua at home in kindergarten and first grade and would have kept him at home longer if she had not gone back to work.
"I believe parents should have more options," Mrs. Gomolka said.
Mr. Gomolka nodded in agreement when the president spoke of preserving natural spaces, of letting children grow up next to parks, of saving coastlines and forests, and of supporting public transportation to reduce the time people spend stuck in traffic.
"There you go," he said with the first real enthusiasm he had shown all evening. "That's New Jersey!"
"Where's the money going to come from?" Mrs. Gomolka asked him.
"Our taxes," her husband replied.
"More taxes, or what we've already got?" she asked.
"I would pay higher taxes for all that," Mr. Gomolka said.
As the president drew to a close, Mrs. Gomolka was hardly moved.
"I think over all he had a lot of good proposals, although I'd like to know more about how they all come to fruition," she said. "And I'll never change my mind about his character. I think it puts a shadow on how I see what he has to say."
Mr. Gomolka was also impressed, but not entirely won over.
"I consider it like all the other speeches I've heard him make -- it was a good speech and he has good goals, and it's what the people want to hear," Mr. Gomolka said. "They want him to show some kind of hope for the citizens."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Al and Shelley Gomolka of Bound Brook, N.J., with two of their sons, Jacob, 4, left, and Joshua, 9. While the couple agreed with the president on some issues, their opinion had been affected by his character. (James Estrin/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "KEEPING TRACK -- Channel Surfing"
President Clinton's ratings for the State of the Union address had been slipping until the Monica Lewinsky affair broke in January 1998.
 
Graph shows those watching the State of the Union address as a percentage of all households with television from 1993 to 1999 (Source: Nielsen Media Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); FIREARMS (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); ABORTION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); STATE PARKS (62%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GOMOLKA, AL BILL CLINTON (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



714 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1710 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: THE OVERVIEW;
Clinton Stakes Claim to U.S. Prosperity

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
Basking in an annual rite for the last time, President Clinton bragged tonight that the state of the union had never been better and proposed using some of the nation's wealth to provide modest tax relief for lower- and middle-income Americans, particularly married ones.
"Our economic revolution has been matched by a revival of the American spirit," Mr. Clinton said, pumping his fist for emphasis. "Crime down by 20 percent, to its lowest level in 25 years. Teen births down seven years in a row, adoptions up by 30 percent. Welfare rolls cut in half to their lowest levels in 30 years. My fellow Americans, the state of our union is the strongest it has ever been." Text, Pages A16-17. 
As Mr. Clinton stepped to the rostrum, the House chamber was crowded, as always, although the entire Supreme Court was puzzlingly absent, some without any stated reason. The drama of his address a year ago, delivered on the eve of his impeachment trial, was gone. Instead, Mr. Clinton's main adversary was the calendar, which shows less than a year to go until his successor's proposals are the ones that matter.
With Vice President Al Gore seated behind his right shoulder and Hillary Rodham Clinton in the balcony above, Mr. Clinton did much to try to help their political fortunes and the effort of other Democrats to take back the House from the Republicans who had impeached him.
So packed full of proposals was the speech that it extended to 89 minutes, breaking the record of the marathon, 81-minute speech that Mr. Clinton gave in 1995. The president also received more than 100 ovations, far more than he received in his other State of the Union speeches.
In one applause-winning proposal, Mr. Clinton, as he has done so often in his tenure, seized an issue dear to the Republicans and made it his own. He announced a proposal to alleviate the part of the tax code that penalizes married couples, forcing them to pay higher rates than if they were single.
That makes such a change likely, since Republicans on Capitol Hill had previously said that ending the so-called marriage penalty was one of their principal goals this year and had appeared to have enough Democratic backing to enact it even before Mr. Clinton embraced the measure tonight. The proposal was one of a series of tax cuts that aides said totaled $350 billion over 10 years, measured against an estimated $2 trillion surplus.
Republicans were taken aback by the sheer number of initiatives. Gov. George W. Bush of Texas called the speech a "litany of spending," and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois said "Congress will dig out of an avalanche of presidential spending initiatives." Page 15.
In a surprise announcement held back until just before the speech, Mr. Clinton urged federal legislation to require state licenses for all handgun purchases, one of numerous proposals the president borrowed from Mr. Gore. Saying states now licensed drivers and hunters, Mr. Clinton recommended similar photo identifications for handgun buyers once they passed a background check and completed a gun-safety course.
In his speech Mr. Clinton took credit for the extraordinary health of the American economy -- and shared credit lavishly with Mr. Gore -- while warning that the prosperity should not be squandered.
But while last year's address was built around a pledge to save Social Security before taking any other actions or cutting taxes, this year, Mr. Clinton felt times were good enough to call for both tax cuts, though modest ones, and more social spending.
On foreign policy, an area in which he hopes to be remembered, Mr. Clinton urged lawmakers to give China most-favored-nation trade status on a permanent basis, and he restated his view that the United States must stay engaged in the world, especially with former adversaries still struggling to enact democratic reforms.
As he has in previous speeches, Mr. Clinton devoted far less time to foreign policy and national security issues than to his domestic agenda, quickly surveying the country's role as a mediator in the Middle East and Northern Ireland and as a defender of human rights in Kosovo.
Mr. Clinton said the trend toward globalization was "the central reality of our time." He called for a new consensus on trade, urging Congress to pass legislation easing trade barriers with African and Caribbean nations and to approve the agreement his administration reached with China last year to join the World Trade Organization.
"Open markets and rule-based trade are the best engines we know of for raising living standards, reducing global poverty and environmental destruction, and assuring the free flow of ideas," Mr. Clinton said. "I believe as strongly tonight as I did the first day I got here: there is only one direction for America to go on trade. We must go forward."
He said Russia had been held back from its full potential by economic turmoil and "a cruel and self-defeating war in Chechnya" but said the United States should help "those Russians who are struggling for a democratic, prosperous future."
Most of his points were not new, but he did announce a proposal to offer tax credits to pharmaceutical companies to speed development of vaccines against malaria, tuberculosis and AIDS in poorer nations. He also said his budget would include $150 million to fight disease around the world.
With his speech coming between this week's Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday, Mr. Clinton unveiled a legislative shopping list intended to some degree to ensure his relevance as attention shifts to the campaign. Time after time in the speech, Democrats jumped to their feet in applause, while Republicans responded to many proposals with silence.
Election-year Congresses are notoriously unproductive, but tonight Mr. Clinton advanced some proposals designed to win congressional backing this year and other initiatives designed to linger for the Democrats until well beyond Election Day.
"These are great goals, worthy of a great nation," Mr. Clinton said. "The lesson of our history," he said, "and the lesson of the last seven years -- is that great goals are reached step by step, always building on our progress, always gaining ground."
On education, Mr. Clinton borrowed heavily from the campaign platform of Mr. Gore, proposing $3 billion in new spending for the politically popular Head Start program and new after-school initiatives, as well as school construction and enhanced teacher pay. He restated his $31 billion plan to make college more affordable through enhanced federal grants and by making part of tuition tax deductible. He has credited Mrs. Clinton with twisting him arm to make that happen.
"We need a 21st century revolution in education, guided by our faith that every single child can learn," he said. "Because education is more important than ever, more than ever the key to our children's future, we must make sure that all our children have that key. That means universal preschool and after-school, the best trained teachers in the classroom and college opportunities for all our children."
Some of the president's proposals had been suggested before but had never gained traction in Congress. Mr. Clinton urged renewed action on unfinished business, including hate-crimes legislation, a minimum wage increase from $5.15 an hour, a bill of rights to give patients more say with their health maintenance organizations, and gun control.
Tom Mauser, whose son, Daniel, was killed last April at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colo., was one of the guests invited to sit beside Mrs. Clinton. The president's speech pushed the gun control measures that Congress had failed to act on last year, along with money to enhance the enforcement of existing gun laws.
The president's licensing proposal stands little chance of passage this year, and raises constitutional issues, but it put Mr. Clinton clearly in Mr. Gore's corner in the presidential campaign, in which former Senator Bill Bradley has promoted his gun control proposals as more effective than the vice president's.
"Crime in America has dropped for the past seven years -- that's the longest decline on record, thanks to a national consensus we helped to forge on community police, sensitive gun control and effective prevention," the president said. "But nobody -- nobody here, nobody in America -- believes America is safe enough. So again I ask you to set a higher goal: let's make this country the safest big country in the world."
The president's tax-relief ideas would supplement working families' retirement savings, assist with child care expenses, encourage charitable giving and make up to $10,000 of college tuition tax deductible. In another helping hand, Mr. Clinton proposed $21 billion to expand the earned income tax credit.
Talk of undoing the marriage penalty is always politically popular. But the president's plan, which would be phased in over a decade and would double the standard deduction for two-income couples to twice the amount of a single filer's deduction, is more limited than various Republican proposals. It would not benefit couples who itemize on their returns.
Addressing one of his biggest legislative defeats last year, Mr. Clinton called for a "bipartisan dialogue" on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, conciliatory language indicating that the president did not intend to push the matter again. He emphasized the importance of engaging countries like China and Russia, which still maintains nuclear missile arsenals. And he addressed the dangers of biological warfare and "cyberterrorism," without offering any specific solutions to those dangers.
The president pushed again for prescription-drug benefits under Medicare, one of a handful of health care proposals. And he vowed to pay off the debt by 2013, two years ahead of his previous predictions, and resist reckless spending that chips away at Social Security.
In length and breadth, the speech reflected Mr. Clinton's centrist instincts, the advice of many people in the White House and on Capitol Hill -- and the president's desire to savor a moment in the spotlight before the people's attention turns inevitably to the next president, whoever he is.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton, in his last State of the Union address, said that a strong economy "has been matched by a revival of the American spirit." (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A1); At the State of the Union address last night, Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Clintons' daughter, Chelsea, were joined by Hank Aaron, an Atlanta Braves executive who holds baseball's career home run record. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); President Clinton arrived at the Capitol yesterday to praise the state of the union and propose tax relief for lower- and middle-income Americans. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; WELFARE (US); FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); BASEBALL (79%); IMPEACHMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); FIREARMS (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); GUN CONTROL (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (57%); ADOLESCENTS (55%); 

PERSON: LACEY, MARC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); AARON, HANK BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



715 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 8891 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION;
President Clinton on State of Union: 'The Strongest It Has Ever Been'

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
Following is President Clinton's State of the Union address to Congress tonight, as recorded by The New York Times. The headings are from the original.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Please be seated. Thank you. Thank you very much. 
 Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, members of Congress, honored guests, my fellow Americans: We are fortunate to be alive at this moment in history. Never before has our nation enjoyed, at once, so much prosperity and social progress with so little internal crises and so few external threats. Never before have we had such a blessed opportunity -- and, therefore, such a profound obligation -- to build the more perfect union of our founders' dreams.
We began the new century with over 20 million new jobs. The fastest economic growth in more than 30 years. The lowest unemployment rates in 30 years. The lowest poverty rates in 20 years. The lowest African-American and Hispanic unemployment rates on record. The first back-to-back surpluses in 42 years.
And next month, America will achieve the longest period of economic growth in our entire history.
We have built a new economy.
And our economic revolution has been matched by a revival of the American spirit: Crime down by 20 percent, to its lowest level in 25 years. Teen births down seven years in a row, adoptions up by 30 percent. Welfare rolls cut in half to their lowest levels in 30 years.
My fellow Americans, the state of our union is the strongest it has ever been.
As always, the real credit belongs to the American people.
My gratitude also goes to those of you in this chamber who have worked with us to put progress over partisanship.
Eight years ago, it was not so clear to most Americans there would be much to celebrate in the year 2000. Then our nation was gripped by economic distress, social decline, political gridlock. The title of a best-selling book that year asked: "America: What Went Wrong?"
In the best traditions of our nations, Americans determined to set things right. We restored the vital center, replacing outmoded ideologies with a new vision anchored in basic, enduring values: opportunity for all, responsibility from all, a community of all Americans.
We reinvented government, transforming it into a catalyst for new ideas that stress both opportunity and responsibility, and give our people the tools they need to solve their own problems.
With the smallest federal work force in 40 years, we turned record deficits into record surpluses, and doubled our investment in education. We cut crime with 100,000 community police and the Brady law, which has kept guns out of the hands of half a million criminals.
We ended welfare as we knew it -- requiring work while protecting health care and nutrition for children, and investing more in child care, transportation and housing to help their parents go to work. We've helped parents to succeed at home and at work with family leave, which 20 million Americans have now used to care for a newborn child or a sick loved one. We've engaged 150,000 young Americans in citizen service through AmeriCorps, while also helping them earn money for college.
In 1992, we just had a road map. Today, we have results. But even more important, America again has the confidence to dream big dreams. But we must not let this confidence drift into complacency. For we, all of us, will be judged by the dreams and deeds we pass on to our children. And on that score, we will be held to a high standard, indeed. Because our chance to do good is so great.
My fellow Americans, we have crossed the bridge we built to the 21st century. Now, we must shape a 21st-century American revolution -- of opportunity, responsibility and community. We must be now, as we were in the beginning, a new nation.
At the dawn of the last century, Theodore Roosevelt said, "The one characteristic more essential than any other is foresight. . . It should be the growing nation with a future which takes the long look ahead."
So tonight let us take our look long ahead -- and set great goals for our nation.
To 21st-century America, let us pledge these things:
Every child will begin school ready to learn and graduate ready to succeed. Every family will be able to succeed at home and at work -- and no child will be raised in poverty. We will meet the challenge of the aging of America. We will assure quality, affordable health care at last for all Americans. We will make America the safest big country on earth. We will pay off our national debt for the first time since 1945. We will bring prosperity to every American community. We will reverse the course of climate change and leave a safer, cleaner planet. America will lead the world toward shared peace and prosperity, and the far frontiers of science and technology. And we will become at last what our founders pledged us to be so long ago -- one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
These are great goals, worthy of a great nation. We will not reach them all this year. Not even in this decade. But we will reach them. Let us remember that the first American revolution was not won with a single shot. The continent was not settled in a single year. The lesson of our history -- and the lesson of the last seven years -- is that great goals are reached step by step: always building on our progress, always gaining ground.
Of course, you can't gain ground if you're standing still. And for too long this Congress has been standing still on some of our most pressing national priorities. So let's begin tonight with them.
Again I ask you to pass a real patients' bill of rights. I ask you to pass common-sense gun-safety legislation. I ask you -- I ask you to pass campaign finance reform. I ask you to vote up or down on judicial nominations and other important appointees. And, again, I ask you, I implore you to raise the minimum wage.
Now, two years ago -- let me try to balance a seesaw here -- two years ago as we reached across party lines to reach our first balanced budget, I asked that we meet our responsibility to the next generation by maintaining our fiscal discipline. Because we refused to stray from that path, we are doing something that would have seemed unimaginable seven years ago: We are actually paying down the national debt. Now, if, if we stay on this path, we can pay down the debt entirely in just 13 years now and make America debt-free for the first time since Andrew Jackson was president in 1835.
In 1993, we began to put our fiscal house in order with the Deficit Reduction Act, which you'll all remember won passages in both houses by just a single vote. Your former colleague, my first Secretary of the Treasury, led that effort and sparked our long boom. He's here with us tonight. Lloyd Bentsen, you have served America well and we thank you.
Beyond paying off the debt, we must ensure that the benefits of debt reduction go to preserving two of the most important guarantees we make to every American -- Social Security and Medicare. Tonight, tonight I ask you to work with me to make a bipartisan down payment on Social Security reform by crediting the interest savings from debt reduction to the Social Security Trust Fund so that it will be strong and sound for the next 50 years.
But this is just the start of our journey. We must also take the right steps toward reaching our great goals.
 
Opportunity and Responsibility In Education
First and foremost, we need a 21st-century revolution in education, guided by our faith that every single child can learn. Because, because education is more important than ever, more than ever the key to our children's future, we must make sure all our children have that key. That means quality preschool and after school, the best trained teachers in the classroom and college opportunities for all our children.
For seven, for seven years now, we've worked hard to improve our schools, with opportunity and responsibility: investing more, but demanding more in turn.
Reading, math, college entrance scores are up. Some of the most impressive gains are in schools in very poor neighborhoods.
But all successful schools have followed the same proven formula: higher standards, more accountability, and extra help so children who need it can get it to reach those standards. I have sent Congress a reform plan based on that formula. It holds states and school districts accountable for progress, and rewards them for results. Each year, our national government invests more than $15 billion in our schools. It is time to support what works and stop supporting what doesn't.
Now, as we demand more from our schools, we should invest more in our schools.
Let's double our investment to help states and districts turn around their worst-performing schools -- or shut them down.
Let's double our investments in after-school and summer school programs,which boost achievement and keep people off the street and out of trouble. If, if we do this, we can give every child in every failing school in America, everyone, the chance to meet high standards.
Since 1993, we've nearly doubled our investment in Head Start and improved its quality. Tonight, I ask you for another $1 billion for Head Start, the largest increase in the history of the program.
We know that children learn best in smaller classes with good teachers. For two years in a row, Congress has supported my plan to hire 100,000 new, qualified teachers, to lower class size in the early grades. I thank you for that and I ask you to make it three in a row.
And to make sure all teachers know the subjects they teach, tonight I propose a new teacher quality initiative -- to recruit more talented people into the classroom, reward good teachers for staying there and give all teachers the training they need.
We know charter schools provide real public school choice. When I became president, there was just one independent public charter school in all America. Today, thanks to you, there are 1,700. I ask you now to help us meet our goal of 3,000 charter schools by next year.
We know we must connect all our classrooms to the Internet. And we're getting there. In 1994, only 3 percent of our classrooms were connected. Today, with the help of the vice president's E-rate program, more than half of them are; and 90 percent of our schools have at least one Internet connection.
But we cannot finish the job when a third of all our schools are in serious disrepair. Many of them have walls and wires so old, they're too old for the Internet. So tonight, I propose to help 5,000 schools a year make immediate and urgent repairs. And again, to help build or modernize 6,000 more, to get students out of trailers and into high-tech classrooms.
I ask all of you to help me double our bipartisan GEAR UP program, which provides mentors for disadvantaged young people. If we double it, we can provide mentors for 1.4 million of them. And let's also -- let's also offer these kids from disadvantaged backgrounds the same chance to take the same college test-prep courses wealthier students use to boost their test scores.
To make the American dream achievable for all, we must make college affordable for all. For seven years, on a bipartisan basis, we have taken action toward that goal: larger Pell grants, more-affordable student loans, education I.R.A.'s, and our HOPE scholarships, which have already benefited five million young people. Now 67 percent of high school graduates are going on to college. That's up 10 percent since 1993. Yet millions of families still strain to pay college tuition. They need help.
So I propose a landmark $30 billion college opportunity tax cut -- a middle-class tax deduction for up to $10,000 in college tuition costs. The previous actions of this Congress have already made two years of college affordable for all. It's time to make four years of college affordable for all. If we take all these steps, we'll move a long way toward making sure every child starts school ready to learn and graduates ready to succeed.
 
Rewarding Work And Strengthening Families
We also need a 21st-century revolution to reward work and strengthen families by giving every parent the tools to succeed at work and at the most important work of all, raising children. That means making sure every family has health care and the support to care for aging parents, the tools to bring their children up right, and that no child grows up in poverty. From my first days as president, we've worked to give families better access to better health care. In 1997, we passed the Children's Health Insurance Program -- CHIP -- so that workers who don't have coverage through their employers at least can get it for their children. So far, we've enrolled two million children. We're well on our way to our goal of five million. But there are still more than 40 million of our fellow Americans without health insurance, more than there were in 1993. Tonight I propose that we follow Vice President Gore's suggestion to make low-income parents eligible for the insurance that covers their children.
Together with our children's initiative -- think of this -- together with our children's initiative, this action would enable us to cover nearly a quarter of all the uninsured people in America. Again, I want to ask you to let people between the ages of 55 and 65 -- the fastest growing group of uninsured -- buy into Medicare.
And this year I propose to give them a tax credit to make that choice an affordable one. I hope you will support that as well.
When the baby boomers retire, Medicare will be faced with caring for twice as many of our citizens -- yet it is far from ready to do so. My generation must not ask our children's generation to shoulder our burden. We simply must act now to strengthen and modernize Medicare. My budget includes a comprehensive plan to reform Medicare, to make it more efficient and more competitive. And it dedicates nearly $400 billion of our budget surplus to keep Medicare solvent past 2025.
And, at long last, it also provides funds to give every senior a voluntary choice of affordable coverage for prescription drugs.
Lifesaving drugs are an indispensable part of modern medicine. No one creating a Medicare program today would even think of excluding coverage for prescription drugs. Yet more than three in five of our seniors now lack dependable drug coverage which can lengthen and enrich their lives. Millions of older Americans who need prescription drugs the most pay the highest prices for them. In good conscience, we cannot let another year pass without extending to all our seniors this lifeline of affordable prescription drugs.
Record numbers of Americans are providing for aging or ailing loved ones at home. It's a loving but a difficult and often very expensive choice. Last year, I proposed a $1,000 tax credit for long-term care. Frankly, it wasn't enough. This year, let's triple it to $3,000. But this year, let's pass it.
We also have to make needed investments to expand access to mental health care. I want to take a moment to thank the person who led our first White House conference on mental health last year and who for seven years has led all our efforts to break down the barriers to decent treatment of people with mental illness: Thank you, Tipper Gore. Thank you.
Taken together, these proposals would mark the largest investment in health care in the 35 years since Medicare was created. The largest investment in 35 years. That would be a big step toward assuring quality health care for all Americans, young and old. And I ask you to embrace them and pass them.
We must also make investments that reward work and support families. Nothing does that better than the Earned Income Tax Credit, the E.I.T.C.
The "E" in the E.I.T.C is about earning, working, taking responsibility and being rewarded for it. In my very first address to you, I asked Congress to greatly expand this credit, and you did. As a result, in 1998 alone, the E.I.T.C helped more than 4.3 million Americans work their way out of poverty toward the middle class. That's double the number in 1993.
Tonight, I propose another major expansion of the E.I.T.C. -- to reduce the marriage penalty, to make sure it rewards marriage as it rewards work. And also to expand the tax credit for families that have more than two children. It punishes people with more than two children today. Our proposal would allow families with three or more children to get up to $1,100 more in tax relief. These are working families. Their children should not be in poverty.
We also can't reward work and family unless men and women get equal pay for equal work.
Today -- today the female unemployment rate is the lowest it has been in 46 years. Yet women still only earn about 75 cents for every dollar men earn. We must do better by providing the resources to enforce present equal pay laws, training more women for high-paying, high-tech jobs, and passing the Paycheck Fairness Act.
Many working parents spend up to a quarter, a quarter, of their income on child care. Last year, we helped parents provide child care for about two million children. My child care initiative before you now, along with funds already secured in welfare reform, would make child care better, safer, and more affordable for another 400,000 children. I ask you to pass that. They need it out there in America.
For hard-pressed middle-income families, we should also expand the child care tax credit. And I believe strongly we should take the next big step and make that tax credit refundable for low-income families.
For those -- for people making under $30,000 a year, that could mean up to $2,400 for child-care costs. You know, we all say we're pro-work and pro-family. Passing this proposal would prove it.
Tens of millions of Americans live from paycheck to paycheck. As hard as they work, they still don't have the opportunity to save. Too few can make use of I.R.A.'s and 401(k) plans. We should do more to help all working families save and accumulate wealth. That's the idea behind the Individual Development Accounts, the I.D.A.'s. I ask you to take that idea to a new level, with new retirement savings accounts that enable every low- and moderate-income family in America to save for retirement, a first home, a medical emergency or a college education. I propose to match their contributions, however small, dollar for dollar, every year they save. And I propose to give a major new tax credit to any small business that will provide a meaningful pension to its workers. Those people ought to have retirement as well as the rest of us.
Nearly one in three American children grows up without a father. These children are five times more likely to live in poverty than children with both parents at home. Clearly, demanding and supporting responsible fatherhood is critical to lifting all our children out of poverty. We've doubled child support collections since 1992, and I am proposing to you tough new measures to hold still more fathers responsible. But we should recognize that a lot of fathers want to do right by their children but need help to do it. Carlos Rosas of St. Paul, Minn., wanted to do right by his son and he got the help to do it. Now he's a good job and he supports his little boy. My budget will help 40,000 more fathers make the same choices Carlos Rosas did. I thank him for being here. Stand up, Carlos. Thank you.
If there is any single issue on which we should be able to reach across party lines, it is in our common commitment to reward work and strengthen families. Just remember what we did last year. We came together to help people with disabilities keep their health insurance when they go to work. And I thank you for that. Thanks to overwhelming bipartisan support from this Congress, we have improved foster care. We've helped those young people who leave it when they turn 18. And we have dramatically increased the number of foster care children going into adoptive homes. I thank all of you for all of that.
Of course, I am forever grateful to the person who has led our efforts from the beginning, and who's worked so tirelessly for children and families for 30 years now: my wife, Hillary. And I thank her.
If we take the steps I've just discussed, we can go a long, long way toward empowering parents to succeed at home and at work, and ensuring that no child is raised in poverty. We can make these vital investments in health care, education, support for working families, and still offer tax cuts to help pay for college, for retirement, to care for aging parents, to reduce the marriage penalty. We can do these things without forsaking the path of fiscal discipline that got us to this point here tonight. Indeed, we must make these investments and these tax cuts in the context of a balanced budget that strengthens and extends the life of Social Security and Medicare and pays down the national debt.
 
Responsibility and Crime
Crime in America has dropped for the past seven years -- that's the longest decline on record, thanks to a national consensus we helped to forge on community police, sensible gun safety laws, and effective prevention. But nobody -- nobody here, nobody in America -- believes we're safe enough. So again I ask you to set a higher goal: let's make this country the safest big country in the world.
Now, last fall, Congress supported my plan to hire -- in addition to the 100,000 community police we've already funded -- 50,000 more, concentrated in high-crime neighborhoods. I ask your continued support for that.
Soon after the Columbine tragedy, Congress considered commonsense gun legislation to require Brady background checks at the gun shows, child safety locks for new handguns, and a ban on the importation of large-capacity ammunition clips. With courage -- and a tie-breaking vote by the vice president -- the Senate faced down the gun lobby, stood up to the American people, and passed this legislation. But the House failed to follow suit.
Now we have all seen what happens when guns fall into the wrong hands. Daniel Mauser was only 15 years old when he was gunned down at Columbine. He was an amazing kid, a straight-A student, a good skier. Like all parents who lose their children, his father Tom has borne unimaginable grief. Somehow he has found the strength to honor his son by transforming his grief into action. Earlier this month, he took a leave of absence from his job to fight for tougher gun safety laws. I pray that his courage and wisdom will at long last move this Congress to make commonsense gun legislation the very next order of business. And Tom Mauser, stand up. we thank you for being here tonight. Tom. Thank you, Tom.
We must strengthen our gun laws and enforce those already on the books better. Federal -- federal gun crime prosecutions are up 16 percent since I took office. But we must do more. I propose to hire more federal and local gun prosecutors and more A.T.F. agents to crack down on illegal gun traffickers and bad-apple dealers. And we must give them the enforcement tools that they need -- tools to trace every gun and every bullet used in every gun crime in the United States. I ask you to help us do that. Every state in this country already requires hunters and automobile drivers to have a license. I think they ought to do the same thing for handgun purchases. Now, specifically -- specifically I propose a plan to ensure that all new handgun buyers must first have a photo license from their state showing they passed a Brady background check and a gun safety course before they get the gun. I hope you'll help me pass that in this Congress.
Listen to this -- listen to this: the accidental gun rate -- the accidental gun death rate of children under 15 in the United States is nine times higher than in the other 25 industrialized countries -- combined. Now, technologies now exist that could lead to guns that can only be fired by the adults who own them. I ask Congress to fund research into smart gun technology to save these children's lives. I ask responsible leaders in the gun industry to work with us on smart guns and other steps to keep guns out of the wrong hands to keep our children safe.
You know, every parent I know worries about the impact of violence in the media on their children. I want to begin by thanking the entertainment industry for accepting my challenge to put voluntary ratings on TV programs and video and Internet games.
But, frankly, the ratings are too numerous, diverse, and confusing to be really useful to parents. So tonight, I ask the industry to accept the first lady's challenge -- to develop a single, voluntary rating system for all children's entertainment that is easier for parents to understand and enforce.
The steps I outline will take us well on our way to make America the safest big country in the world.
 
Opening New Markets
Now, to keep our historic economic expansion going -- the subject of a lot of discussion in this community and others -- I believe we need a 21st-century revolution to open new markets, start new businesses, hire new workers right here in America -- in our inner cities, poor rural areas and Native American reservations.
Our nation's prosperity hasn't yet reached these places. Over the last six months, I've traveled to a lot of them -- joined by many of you, and many farsighted business people -- to shine a spotlight on the enormous potential in communities from Appalachia to the Mississippi Delta, from Watts to the Pine Ridge Reservation. Everywhere I go, I meet talented people eager for opportunity, and able to work. Tonight I ask you: Let's put them to work.
For business, it's the smart thing to do. For America, it's the right thing to do. And let me ask you something. If we don't do this now, when in the wide world will we ever get around to it?
So, I ask Congress to give businesses the same incentives to invest in America's new markets they now have to invest in markets overseas. Tonight, I propose a large new markets tax credit and other incentives to spur $22 billion in private-sector capital -- to create new businesses and new investments in our inner cities and rural areas.
I also -- because Empowerment Zones have been creating these opportunities for five years now, I also ask you to increase incentives to invest in them and to create more of them.
And let me say -- let me say to all of you again what I have tried to say at every turn: This is not a Democratic or a Republican issue. Giving people a chance to live their dreams is an American issue. Mr. Speaker, it was a powerful moment last November when you joined Rev. Jesse Jackson and me in your home state of Illinois, and committed to working toward our common goal, by combining the best ideas from both sides of the aisle. I want to thank you again and to tell you, Mr. Speaker, I look forward to working with you. This is a worthy joint endeavor.
I also ask you to make special efforts to address the areas of our nation with the highest rates of poverty: our Native American reservations and the Mississippi Delta. My budget includes a $110 million initiative to promote economic development in the Delta and a billion dollars to increase economic opportunity, health care, education and law enforcement for our Native American communities. Now, In this new century, we should begin this new century by honoring our historic responsibility to empower the first Americans. And I want to thank -- I want to thank tonight the leaders and the members from both parties who've expressed to me an interest in working with us on these efforts. They are profoundly important.
There's another part of our American community in trouble tonight -- our family farmers. When I signed the Farm Bill in 1996, I said there was great danger it would work well in good times but not in bad. Well, droughts, floods and historically low prices have made times very bad for the farmers. We must work together to strengthen the farm safety net, invest in land conversation -- conservation, and create some new markets for them by expanding our programs for bio-based fuels and products. Please. They need help. Let's do it together.
Opportunity for all requires something else today: having access to a computer and knowing how to use it. That means we must close the digital divide between those who've got the tools and those who don't.
Now, connecting classrooms and libraries to the Internet is crucial but it's just a start. My budget ensures that all new teachers are trained to teach 21st-century skills and it creates technology centers in a thousand communities to serve adults. This spring, I'll invite high-tech leaders to join me on another new markets tour -- to close the digital divide and open opportunity for our people. I want to thank the high-tech companies that already are doing so much in this area -- and I hope the new tax incentives I have proposed will get all the rest of them to join us. This is a national crusade. We have got to do this and do it quickly.
Now, again I say to you, these are steps, but step by step, we can go a long way toward our goal of bringing opportunity to every community.
 
Global Change And American Leadership
To realize the full possibilities of this economy, we must reach beyond our own borders, to shape the revolution that is tearing down barriers and building new networks among nations and individuals, and economies and cultures: globalization.
It's the central reality of our time. Of course, change this profound is both liberating and threatening to people. But there's no turning back. And our open, creative society stands to benefit more than any other -- if we understand, and act on, the realities of interdependence. We have to be at the center of every vital global network, as a good neighbor and a good partner. We have to recognize that we cannot build our future without helping others to build theirs.
The first thing we have got to do is to forge a new consensus on trade. Now, those of us who believe passionately in the power of open trade -- we have to ensure that it lifts both our living standards and our values, never tolerating abusive child labor or a race to the bottom in the environment and worker protection. But others must recognize that open markets and rule-based trade are the best engines we know of for raising living standards, reducing global poverty and environmental destruction and assuring the free flow of ideas. I believe as strongly tonight as I did the first day I got here: The only direction forward for America on trade -- the only direction for America on trade is to keep going forward. I ask you to help me forge that consensus.
Now, we have to make developing economies our partners in prosperity. That's why I would like to ask you again to finalize our groundbreaking African and Caribbean Basin trade initiatives.
But globalization is about more than economics. Our purpose must be to bring together the world around freedom and democracy, and peace, and to oppose those who would tear it apart.
Here are the fundamental challenges I believe America must meet to shape the 21st-century world.
First, we must continue to encourage our former adversaries, Russia and China, to emerge as stable, prosperous, democratic nations. Both are being held back today from reaching their full potential: Russia by the legacy of Communism, an economy in turmoil, a cruel and self-defeating war in Chechnya; China by the illusion that it can buy stability at the expense of freedom.
But think how much has changed in the past decade: 5,000 former Soviet nuclear weapons taken out of commission; Russian soldiers actually serving with ours in the Balkans; Russian people electing their leaders for the first time in a thousand years. And in China, an economy more open to the world than ever before. Of course, no one -- not a single person in this chamber tonight -- can know for sure what direction these great nations will take. But we do know for sure that we can choose what we do. And we should do everything in our power to increase the chance that they will choose wisely, to be constructive members of our global community.
That's why we should support those Russians who are struggling for a democratic, prosperous future; continue to reduce both our nuclear arsenals; and help Russia to safeguard weapons and materials that remain.
And that's why I believe Congress should support the agreement we negotiated to bring China into the W.T.O., by passing Permanent Normal Trade Relations with China as soon as possible this year. I think, you ought to do it for two reasons. First of all our markets are already open to China. This agreement will open China's markets to us. And second, second, it will plainly advance the cause of peace in Asia and promote the cause of change in China.
No, we don't know where it's going. All we can do is decide what we're going to do. But when all is said and done, we need to know we did everything we possibly could to maximize the chance that China will choose the right future.
A second challenge we've got is to protect our own security from conflicts that pose the risk of wider war and threaten our common humanity. We can't prevent every conflict or stop every outrage. But where our interests are at stake and we can make a difference, we should be and we must be peacemakers.
We should be proud of our role in bringing the Middle East closer to a lasting peace; building peace in Northern Ireland; working for peace in East Timor and Africa; promoting reconciliation between Greece and Turkey and in Cyprus; working to defuse these crises between India and Pakistan; in defending human rights and religious freedom.
And we should be proud of the men and women of our armed forces and those of our allies who stopped the ethnic cleansing in Kosovo -- enabling a million people to return to their homes.
Thank you.
When Slobodan Milosevic unleashed his terror on Kosovo, Capt. John Cherrey was one of the brave airmen who turned the tide. And when another American plane was shot down over Serbia, he flew into the teeth of enemy air defenses to bring his fellow pilot home. Thanks to our armed forces' skill and bravery, we prevailed in Kosovo without losing a single American in combat. I want to introduce Captain Cherrey to you. We honor Captain Cherrey, and we promise you captain, we'll finish the job you began. Stand up so we can see you.
A third challenge we have is to keep this inexorable march of technology from giving terrorists and potentially hostile nations the means to undermine our defenses. Keep in mind the same technological advances that have shrunk cell phones to fit in the palms of our hands can also make weapons of terror easier to conceal and easier to use.
We must meet this threat: by making effective agreements to restrain nuclear and missile programs in North Korea, curbing the flow of lethal technology to Iran; preventing Iraq from threatening its neighbors; increasing our preparedness against chemical and biological attack; protecting our vital computer systems from hackers and criminals; and developing a system to defend against new missile threats -- while working to preserve our A.B.M. Treaty with Russia. We must do all these things.
I predict to you when most of us are long gone, but sometime in the next 10 to 20 years, the major security threat this country will face, will come from the enemies of the nation's state, the narco-traffickers and the terrorists and the organized criminals who will be organized together, working together with increasing access to ever more sophisticated chemical and biological weapons. And I want to thank the Pentagon and others for doing what they're doing right now to try to help protect us and plan for that so that our defenses will be strong. I ask for your support so they can succeed.
I also want to ask you for a constructive bipartisan dialogue this year to work to build a consensus which I hope will eventually lead to the ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.
I hope we can also have a constructive effort to meet the threat that is presented to our planet by the huge gulf between rich and poor. We cannot accept a world in which part of humanity lives on the cutting edge of a new economy and the rest live on the bare edge of survival. I think we have to do our part to change that, with expanded trade, expanded aid and the expansion of freedom.
This is interesting. From Nigeria to Indonesia, more people got the right to choose their leaders in 1999 than in 1989, when the Berlin Wall fell. We've got to stand by these democracies, including and especially tonight Colombia, which is fighting narco-traffickers for its people's lives, and our children's lives. I have proposed a strong two-year package to help Colombia win this fight. I want to thank the leaders in both parties in both houses for listening to me and the President of Colombia about it. We have got to pass this. I want to ask your help. A lot is riding on it. And it's so important for the long-term stability of our country and for what happens in Latin America. I also want you to know I'm going to send you new legislation to go after what these drug barons value the most -- their money. And I hope you'll pass that as well.
Now, in, in a world where over a billion people live on less than a dollar a day, we also have got to do our part in the global endeavor to reduce the debts of the poorest countries so they can invest in education, health care and economic growth. That's what the pope and other religious leaders have urged us to do. And last year, Congress made a down payment on America's share. I ask you to continue that. I thank you for what you did and ask you to stay the course.
I also want to say that America must help more nations to break the bonds of disease. Last year in Africa, 10 times as many people died from AIDS as were killed in wars. Ten times. The budget I give you invests $150 million more in the fight against this and other infectious killers. And today, I propose a tax credit to speed the development of vaccines for diseases like malaria, TB and AIDS. I ask the private sector and our partners around the world to join us in embracing this cause. We can save millions of lives together and we ought to do it.
I also want to mention our final challenge which as always is the most important: I ask you to pass a national security budget that keeps our military the best trained and best equipped in the world, with heightened readiness and 21st-century weapons, which raises salaries for our servicemen and women, which protects our veterans, which fully funds a diplomacy that keeps our soldiers out of war, which makes good on our commitment to our U.N. dues and arrears. I ask you to pass this budget.
I also want to say something, if I might, very personal tonight. The American people watching us at home with the help of all the commentators can tell from whose stands and who sits and who claps and who doesn't that there's still modest differences of opinion in this room. But I want to thank you for something, every one of you. I want to thank you for the extraordinary support you have given -- Republicans and Democrats alike -- to our men and women in uniform. I thank you for that. And I also want to thank especially two people. First I want to thank our Secretary of Defense, Bill Cohen, for symbolizing our bipartisan commitment to national security. Thank you so much. Even more, I want to thank his wife Janet, who more than any other American citizen has tirelessly traveled this world to show the support we all feel for our troops. Thank you Janet Cohen, I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you.
These are the challenges we have to meet so that we can lead the world toward peace and freedom in an era of globalization.
 
Responsibility, Opportunity And the Environment
I want to tell you that I am very grateful for many things as president. But one of the things I'm grateful for is the opportunity that the vice president and I have had to finally put to rest the bogus idea that you cannot grow the economy and protect the environment at the same time. Now, as our economy is growing, we've rid more than 500 neighborhoods of toxic waste, ensured cleaner air and water for millions of people. In the past three months alone, we've helped preserve 40 million acres of roadless lands in the national forests, created three new national monuments.
But as our communities grow, our commitment to conservation must continue to grow. Tonight, I propose creating a permanent conservation fund to restore wildlife, protect coastlines, save natural treasures from California redwoods to the Florida Everglades. This Lands Legacy endowment would represent by far the most enduring investment in land preservation ever proposed in this House. I hope we can get together with all the people with different ideas and do this. This is a gift we should give to our children and our grandchildren for all time across party lines. We can make an agreement to do this.
Last year, the vice president launched a new effort to make communities more liberal, livable, liberal, no. No. Wait a minute. I've got a punch line now. That's this year's agenda. Last year it was livable, right. That's what Senator Lott's going to say in the commentary afterward. To make our communities more livable. This is big business, this is a big issue. What does that mean? You ask anybody that lives in an unlivable community and they'll tell you. They want their kids to grow up next to parks, not parking lots, the parents don't want to have to spend all their time stalled in traffic when they can be home with their children. Tonight I ask you to support new funding for the following things to make American communities more liberal -- livable.
One, I've done pretty well with this speech, but I can't say that at all.
One, I want you to help us to do three things. We need more funding for advanced transit systems. We need for saving open spaces in places of heavy development. And we need more funding -- this ought to have a bipartisan feel -- we need more funding for helping major cities around the Great Lakes protect their waterways and enhance their quality of life. We need these things. And I want you to help us.
Now, the greatest environmental challenge of the new century is global warming. The scientists tell us the 1990's were the hottest decade of the entire millennium. If we fail to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases, deadly heat waves and droughts will become more frequent, coastal areas will flood and economies will be disrupted. That is going to happen unless we act.
Many people in the United States, some people in this chamber, and lots of folks around the world still believe you cannot cut greenhouse gas emissions without slowing economic growth. In the industrial age that may well have been true.
But in this digital economy, it is not true anymore. New technologies make it possible to cut harmful emissions and provide even more growth. For example, just last week, automakers unveiled cars that get 70 to 80 miles a gallon -- the fruits of a unique research partnership between government and industry. And before you know it, efficient production of biofuels will give us the equivalent of hundreds of miles from a gallon of gasoline.
To speed innovations in these kinds of technologies, I think we should give a major tax incentives to business for the production of clean energy -- and to families for buying energy-saving homes and appliances and the next generation of super-efficient cars when they hit the showroom floor. I also ask the auto industry to use the available technologies to make all new cars more fuel efficient right away. And I ask this Congress to do something else. Please help us make more of our clean-energy technology available to the developing world.That will create cleaner growth abroad and a lot more new jobs here in the United States of America.
 
The Opportunity And Responsibility of Science And Technology
Now, in the new century, innovations in science and technology will be key not only to the health of the environment but to miraculous improvements in the quality of our lives and advances in the economy's.
Later this year, researchers will complete the first draft of the entire human genome -- the very blueprint of life. It is important for all our fellow Americans to recognize that federal tax dollars have funded much of this research -- and that this and other wise investments in science are leading to a revolution in our ability to detect, treat and prevent disease.
For example, researchers have identified genes that cause Parkinson's , diabetes, and certain kinds of cancer. They are designing precision therapies that will block the harmful effect of these genes for good. Researchers already are using this new technique to target and destroy cells that cause breast cancer.
Soon, we may be able to use it to prevent the onset of Alzheimer's. Scientists are also working on an artificial retina to help many blind people to see and, listen to this, microchips that would actually directly stimulate damaged spinal cords in a way that could allow people now paralyzed to stand up and walk.
These kinds of innovations are also propelling our remarkable prosperity. Information technology only includes 8 percent of our employment but now accounts for a third of our economic growth, along with jobs that pay, by the way, about 80 percent above the private sector average. Again, we ought to keep in mind: government-funded research brought supercomputers, the Internet, and communications satellites into being.
Soon researchers will bring us devices that can translate foreign languages as fast as you can talk; materials 10 times stronger than steel at a fraction of the weight; and, this is unbelievable to me, molecular computers the size of a teardrop with the power of today's fastest supercomputers.
To accelerate the march of discovery across all these disciplines in science and technology, I ask you to support my recommendation of an unprecedented $3 billion in the 21st Century Research Fund, the largest increase in civilian research in a generation. We owe it to our future.
Now, these new breakthroughs have to be used in ways that reflect our values. First and foremost, we have to safeguard our citizens' privacy. Last year, we proposed to protect every citizen's medical records. This year, we will finalize those rules. We've also taken the first steps to protect the privacy of bank and credit card records and other financial statements. Soon I will send legislation to you to finish that job. We must also act to prevent any genetic discrimination whatever by employers or insurers. I hope you will support that.
These steps will allow us to lead toward the far frontiers of science and technology. They will enhance our health, the environment, the economy in ways we can't even imagine today.
 
Community
But we all know that at a time when science, technology and the forces of globalization are bringing so many changes into all our lives, it's more important than ever that we strengthen the bonds that root us in our local communities and in our national community. No tie binds different people together like citizen service. There's a new spirit of service in America -- a movement we've tried to support with AmeriCorps, expanded Peace Corps, unprecedented new partnerships with businesses, foundations, community groups. Partnerships, for example, like the one that enlisted 12,000 companies which have now moved 650,000 of our fellow citizens from welfare to work. Partnerships to battle drug abuse, AIDS, teach young people to read, save America's treasures, strengthen the arts, fight teen pregnancy, prevent violence among young people, promote racial healing. The American people are working together. But we should do more to help Americans help each other. First, we should help faith-based organizations to do more to fight poverty and drug abuse and help people get back on the right track with initiatives like Second Chance Homes that do so much to help unwed teen mothers. Second, we should support Americans who tithe and contribute to charities, but don't earn enough to claim a tax deduction for it.
Tonight, I propose new tax incentives that would allow low- and middle-income citizens who don't itemize to get that deduction. It's nothing but fair and it'll get more people together.
We should do more to help new immigrants to fully participate in our American community. That's why I recommend spending more to teach them civics and English. And since everybody in our community counts, we've got to make sure everyone is counted in this year's census.
Within 10 years, just 10 years, there will be no majority race in our largest state of California. In a little more than 50 years, there'll be no majority race in America. In a more interconnected world, this diversity can be our greatest strength. Just look around this chamber. Look around. We have members in this Congress from virtually every racial, ethnic and religious background. And I think you would agree that America is stronger because of it.
But you also have to agree that all those differences you just clapped for all too often spark hatred and division, even here at home. Just in the last couple of years we've seen a man dragged to death in Texas just because he was black. We saw a young man murdered in Wyoming just because he was gay. Last year , we've seen -- we saw the shootings of African-Americans, Asian-Americans, and Jewish children simply because of who they were. This is not the American way and we must draw the line.
I ask you to draw that line by passing without delay the Hate Crimes Prevention Act and the Employment Non-Discrimination Act.
And I ask you to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act.
Finally tonight, I propose the largest ever investment in our civil rights laws for enforcement because no American should be subjected to discrimination in finding a home, getting a job, going to school, or securing a loan. Protections in law should be protections in fact.
Last February, because I thought this was so important, I created the White House Office of One America to promote racial reconciliation. That's what one of my personal heroes, Hank Aaron, has done all his life. From his days as our all-time home-run king to his recent acts of healing, he has always brought people together. We should follow his example and we're honored to have him with us tonight. Stand up, Hank Aaron.
I just want to say one more thing about this and I want every one of you to think about this next time you get mad at one of your colleagues on the other side of the aisle. This fall, at the White House, Hillary had one of her millennium dinners and we had this very distinguished scientist there, who is an expert in this whole work in the human genome. And he said that we are all, regardless of race, genetically, 99.9 percent the same. Now, you may find that uncomfortable when you look around here at each other. But it's -- it is worth remembering. We can laugh about this, but you think about it. Modern science has confirmed what ancient faiths have always taught: the most important fact of life is our common humanity. Therefore, we should do more than just tolerate our diversity. We should honor it and celebrate it.
My fellow Americans, every time I prepare for the State of the Union, I approach it with hope and expectation and excitement for our nation. But tonight is very special because we stand on the mountaintop of a new millennium. Behind us we can look back and see the great expanse of American achievement. And before us, we can see even greater, grander frontiers of possibility.
We should all of us be filled with gratitude and humility for our present progress and prosperity. We should be filled with awe and joy at what lies over the horizon. And we should be filled with absolute determination to make the most of it.
You know, when the framers finished crafting our Constitution in Philadelphia, Benjamin Franklin stood in Independence Hall and he reflected on the carving of the sun. It was on the back of a chair he saw. The sun was low on the horizon. So he said this, he said, "I've often wondered whether that sun was rising or setting." "Today," Franklin said, "I have the happiness to know it's a rising sun." Today, because each succeeding generation of Americans has kept the fire of freedom burning brightly, lighting those frontiers of possibility, we still bask in the glow and the warmth of Mr. Franklin's rising sun.
After 224 years, the American Revolution continues. We remain a new nation. And as long as our dreams outweigh our memories, America will be forever young. That is our destiny. And this is our moment.
Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton turned to Vice President Al Gore last night, after giving him credit for the nation's prosperity. Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, is at right. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "STOPWATCH -- So Much to Say"
Length, in minutes, of President Clinton's State of the Union messages.
 
1993: 60
1994: 63
1995: 81
1996: 62
1997: 60
1998: 74
1999: 77
2000: 89
 
(Source: White House transcripts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

LEGISLATION: 106 S.74 PAYCHECK FAIRNESS ACT (56%); 106 H.R. 2397 PAYCHECK FAIRNESS ACT (56%); 106 S. 1276 EMPLOYMENT NON-DISCRIMINATION ACT OF 1999 (50%); 106 S. 245 VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT OF 1999 (50%); 106 S. 622 HATE CRIMES PREVENTION ACT OF 1999 (50%); 106 H.R. 1082 HATE CRIMES PREVENTION ACT OF 1999 (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION EMERGING MARKETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CRIME RATES (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JOB CREATION (73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); CHILDREN (69%); POVERTY RATES (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); GUN CONTROL (62%); BESTSELLERS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



716 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cuts and Merit Pay System Are at Heart of Giuliani Budget

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani called yesterday for an end to automatic pay raises for unionized city workers, from trash collectors to teachers, and proposed $2 billion in tax cuts over the next four years to residents and businesses as part of a $36.8 billion budget he released.
The spending plan for the 2001 fiscal year, perhaps the last for the mayor, who is an undeclared candidate for the United States Senate, is balanced in part by relying on an expected record surplus generated in the current fiscal year by the city's supercharged economy. 
 The mayor devoted a large portion of his budget speech to education and the city's public schools, insisting once again that the school system was out of control and its management bloated. He singled out teachers in proposing a new system based solely on merit pay raises -- a plan opposed by union leaders who either object outright or insist that any merit system be at least linked to base raises tied to inflation.
Mr. Giuliani further roiled Board of Education officials and union leaders by proposing to privatize some failing schools and services like summer programs, and he once again advocated a pilot program that would offer some parents vouchers to allow their children to attend private schools.
Mr. Giuliani, repeatedly praising his management of the city while complaining about the financial disasters he said were caused by his Democratic predecessors, also announced his intention to ask the State Legislature for the authority to borrow billions of dollars more to build new schools, courthouses and even a West Side sports complex.
"For many years, New York City was falling behind the rest of the country," Mr. Giuliani said. "Since we began doing these things with the budget of New York City, which can have a big impact on the economy of the city, including cutting taxes, we've had the three highest years of job growth ever in the history of the city."
He proposed a cut in the city's income tax rate for all New Yorkers that would average 16 percent. Although his administration had said on Wednesday that the cut would not take effect until 2002, after he leaves office, the mayor said yesterday that his critics in the City Council had persuaded him to accelerate the sizable reduction to this coming fiscal year, which begins in July. That cut would eventually cost $784 million a year, and it would save a New Yorker making $75,000 a year about $290.
City Council leaders and budget watchdogs offered unusually generous praise for the mayor's plan. But they warned that it left the city vulnerable to potentially severe deficits if the economy falters. At the same time, the critics said, the mayor's perennial plan to reduce spending for cultural groups, parks and libraries is unnecessary when the city is flush with cash.
"It is like using an inheritance to pay your mortgage," said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, referring to Mr. Giuliani's plan to use $1.5 billion of the expected $2.2 billion surplus to balance next year's budget. "It is short-run thinking. And I think it is unwise."
Labor leaders yesterday also condemned the mayor's so-called revolution in labor relations, saying that if the city replaces automatic raises with pay increases based exclusively on merit, employees will be vulnerable to arbitrary decisions and political pressure by their superiors.
The union leaders and Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, one of their most powerful allies, said they were not in principle opposed to tying compensation in part to worker performance, an increasingly popular bargaining tactic among mayors and governors across the United States. But they said city workers already agreed in 1995 to help balance the budget by accepting two years of wage freezes, cutting their pay relative to the private sector and other local governments.
"It is wrong," Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said regarding the mayor's plan to end all automatic raises. "It does not work. It is very unfair. It ignores the contributions and sacrifices that all city workers have made to the city."
Mr. Giuliani, in a blunt and frequently sarcastic hourlong speech, offered city employees both a carrot and a stick. At first he tempted them by announcing that in his four-year fiscal plan, he wants to set aside $750 million as of the 2002 fiscal year to pay for merit raises, an unusual bargaining tool for a city that typically keeps its settlement reserves a secret. But he then added that if unions did not agree to eliminate automatic raises, make co-payments on health insurance and accept changes in work rules that would increase productivity, he was ready to try to deny them any raises.
"The city will not agree to a single percentage pay increase; that era is over," Mr. Giuliani said, focusing onthe school system to explain the new policy. "Let's really put the kids first and let the pay get determined by the performance with the children rather than a job protection system."
City Hall officials said that they had developed several formulas for scales of merit pay increases but that the details would be negotiated separately with each of the six major employee groups whose contracts expire this year. One pay scale might offer raises of 6 percent to the best-performing employees, 4 percent to employees who performed well, 2 percent to mediocre employees and no raises for the poorest performers, officials said.
Such merit-pay provisions do encourage many employees to work harder, labor experts say. But these provisions can also sow divisiveness within a work force, often creating resentment when one group of unionized employees receives more than another. Union officials usually attack merit pay systems, arguing that they are based on subjective criteria and often lead to punishments for employees who speak out against management and rewards for employees who toe management's line.
Mr. Giuliani said that overall city spending under his plan would drop by 1 percent. But given that the mayor wants to prepay certain 2001 fiscal year expenses with this budget year's surplus, the actual city-supported spending increase is 4.1 percent, according to the New York City Independent Budget Office.
Overall school spending would rise to $11.3 billion, but it comes with a number of strings attached. Mr. Giuliani offered the school system $45 million to improve the performance of its 97 most troubled schools, but only if it agrees to turn at least 19 of them over to private management companies.
He set aside $6 million to offer parents vouchers to send their children to private or parochial schools. And he wants the Board of Education to sell its headquarters at 110 Livingston Street in Brooklyn and cut its central administrative staff by 75 percent.
The president of the Board of Education, William C. Thompson Jr., said the mayor was trying to push the school system too hard. "We have already attempted to make major reductions here over the last few years," he said. "We should always continue to try and downsize this place. Is 75 percent a realistic number? Probably not."
The reductions in cultural programs and social services include a proposed $42.6 million cut for libraries and $18.8 million in cuts for museums and dance, opera and other performing arts groups. In past years, the council has restored financing for many of these programs.
Mr. Vallone said that he had "every reason to believe" that the mayor and the Council would be able to reach agreement on the budget by June. "This appears to be an election year budget at a time when the city can afford an election year budget," Mr. Vallone said.
 
HIGHLIGHTS -- The Mayor's Plan
 
$518 MILLION in tax cuts.
 
$29.6 MILLION to increase the number of school safety officers.
 
$15.5 MILLION for outreach efforts to enroll eligible city residents in Medicaid.
 
$25 MILLION initial city contribution to the redevelopment of Lincoln Center.
 
$5 MILLION to begin construction of an East River Park.
 
$20 MILLION for increased police antidrug initiatives.
 
$160 MILLION in education money to end automatic promotion of failing students.
 
$6 MILLIONfor an experimental school voucher program.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Friday breaking down New York City's proposed budget for 2001 showed erroneous shares in some copies for uniformed forces and education. The uniformed forces' share is $5.9 billion, not $5.2 billion -- that is, 16 percent of the total budget, not 14. The amount for education, $11.3 billion, was 30 percent of the total budget, not 31 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani presented his $36.8 billion budget yesterday. The plan calls for $2 billion worth of tax cuts over the next four years. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Graph: "The 2001 Budget" shows the budget breakdown for New York City.
 
Other: $11.3 billion -- 31%
Education: $11.4 billion -- 31%
Uniformed forces: $5.2 billion -- 14%
Health and welfare: $8.9 billion -- 24%
 
(Source: Office of Management and Budget)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; STADIUMS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE BUDGETS (91%); MERIT PAY (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SPORTS (69%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (56%); 

PERSON: LIPTON, ERIC; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2000



717 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

EURO FALLS. -- The euro fell 1 percent against the dollar after the Commerce Department reported strong economic growth in the fourth quarter. In New York, the euro fell to 97.78 cents from 98.86 cents on Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EURO (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



718 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Armed Forces to Try a Hollywood Pitch for Luring Recruits

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28

 BODY:
After trying just about every other strategy to increase recruitment, Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen has turned to Julia Roberts and a handful of other celebrities to go on television, radio and the Internet to ask a new generation to enlist.
"You've got to get to the people of influence," Mr. Cohen told reporters today, explaining why he had traveled to Hollywood this month to make personal entreaties to the stars to volunteer their services. 
 So far, Mr. Cohen said, he has received positive murmurs but no promises from Tom Cruise, Robert DeNiro, Harrison Ford, Sidney Poitier and Will Smith, as well as Ms. Roberts.
"Now we're drawing up the details," Mr. Cohen said, admitting that shooting schedules and other commitments could trim his list of celebrities who will fill the airways and cyberspace with pitches to join the Army, Navy, Marines and Air Force.
While the booming economy is good news for most of official Washington, it has hurt the Pentagon's ability to fill the all-volunteer force. At the same time, more young men and women are going straight from high school to college, further reducing the number of potential recruits.
Last year Mr. Cohen decided that the military had to change its recruiting strategy, and he hired two private consultants to draw up a plan.
The recommendations were fairly severe. The military, the consultants said, has to go where the young people are -- on the Internet, at shopping malls, answering e-mail messages and watching MTV.
"We're going to do something other than putting an ad on television once a year on Super Bowl Sunday," Mr. Cohen said.
The services are now setting up kiosks in shopping malls and staffing them with new recruits, not just older veterans. Web sites have been recast for humor as well as cutting-edge graphics. And senior Pentagon officials, including Mr. Cohen, are trying to find figures of influence who can capture the attention of young people of enlistment age.
The Navy already has Spike Lee making recruitment pitches on television. Gen. James L. Jones, commandant of the Marines, had the actor James Brolin to dinner recently to discuss the commercials he will make for the Marine Corps.
And Mr. Cohen is negotiating with Terry Bradshaw and the Fox television network to broadcast a National Football League pregame program aboard an aircraft carrier next fall.
"When I first asked Terry, he said he'd never been approached before and he'd be happy to help," Mr. Cohen said. "If we get that program on the carrier, that would reach a vast audience."
Not since World War II has the military made such a concerted effort to enlist celebrities for recruitment drives, said Mr. Cohen, who went in search of service veterans among the stars. Failing that, he is happily settling for actors who played a soldier, sailor or pilot.
"Tom Cruise in 'Top Gun' did more for recruiting than any strategy we've ever come up with," Mr. Cohen said of the movie that featured daring aerial engagements.
Already some of the services have seen a small improvement in recruiting.
In the quarter that ended on Dec. 31, only the Air Force failed to meet its target. The Navy met its goal of 9,879 new sailors, and the Army recruited 13,080, surpassing its goal by 500 new soldiers.
The Pentagon hopes the celebrity spots will be broadcast this summer. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY); TELEVISION; RADIO; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); ARMIES (78%); NAVIES (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); WORLD WAR II (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); RETAILERS (64%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (63%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (63%); SPORTS (63%); 

PERSON: SMITH, WILL; FORD, HARRISON; ROBERTS, JULIA; CRUISE, TOM; DENIRO, ROBERT; COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEC); BECKER, ELIZABETH JULIA ROBERTS (90%); TOM CRUISE (72%); HARRISON FORD (71%); ROBERT DE NIRO (71%); WILL SMITH (68%); JAMES L JONES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



719 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1868 words

HEADLINE: A Few Weeks to Call Your Own;
TimeShares Have Grown Into a $3.5 Billion Industry

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

DATELINE: SMUGGLERS' NOTCH, Vt.

 BODY:
Peter and Anita Gerner had stayed twice before at this ski resort nestled in northern Vermont, both times flirting with the idea of buying a time share.
But when they came again this winter, with their four young children, they decided it was time to make their move. Two days before returning home to West Roxbury, Mass., the Gerners signed a contract to pay $36,000 for part ownership of a large one-bedroom condominium. 
 The deal guarantees them two weeks' occupancy a year, forever -- as long as they pay the $360 annual fee for each week. One week is always in February (the other rotates through the year), so the Austrian-born Gerners can normally count on enough snow at least one week to indulge their passion for skiing.
"The kids love it," Mrs. Gerner said. "And they're at the age where we can all come up together for many years."
More than two million Americans have bought time shares since the concept was imported from Europe in the early 1970's, according to the American Resort Development Association, a trade group. Time shares boomed in the 90's, vaulting the industry from a modest $300 million business in 1978 -- when it was plagued by what Malcolm A. Noden of the School of Hotel Administration at Cornell University called the high-pressure "silk shirt, gold chain crowd" -- to an estimated $3.5 billion industry in 1999.
That is up from $3.1 billion in 1998, and the number of weeks sold last year is estimated to have reached a record 318,000, up 8 percent from 1998.
That growth is coming not just from time shares bought by families, but also those bought by couples and singles (who last year accounted for almost 14 percent of purchases). Now that the old two-week vacation has metamorphosed into a series of three-, four- or seven-day getaways, time shares are increasingly regarded as a good alternative to a vacation home or rental.
While there is still occasional fraud or mismanagement, it has clearly helped that the industry is plagued by far less of this. "The minute Marriott, Hilton, Disney and the other big names came in," Mr. Noden said, "they brought a whole new image and way of doing business."
Part of that image-building involved substituting "vacation club," "second home experience" and the like for "time share," which conjures images of predatory salesmen.
Well into the mid-1980's, many time shares were little more than apartments cobbled out of the remains of condominiums and hotels that had gone belly up.
Today most time share properties are built from the ground up, often in clusters of no more than 25 units. They are available in many sizes, configurations and price ranges, and decked out with workout rooms, whirlpools, saunas and fireplaces, as well as the usual pools, tennis courts and nearby golf courses.
Some really go all out. The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company's time shares under construction in Aspen, Colo., and St. Thomas in the British West Indies, which will sell for $85,000 to $355,000, plus annual dues, for a minimum three-week slot, will include maid service, child care, concierges, catered meals and valet.
Marriott International, which owns Ritz-Carlton, is also building units elsewhere that will sell for $9,000 to $13,000 -- in line with the national average.
The industry has undergone considerable consolidation in the last several years, with Starwood Hotels and Resorts last year paying $403.9 million for Vistana, a leading time share company, and this week Carnival, the cruise ship company, agreeing to acquire Fairfield Communities. Some relatively obscure companies continue to garner sizable sales, including Sunterra Resorts, CFI Westgate and Silverleaf Resorts. But "the hotel companies seem to be gaining market share at the expense of the independents," said Mark Mutkoski, a managing director at Deutsche Banc Alex Brown.
It was the hotel companies -- including Hyatt, Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts, Ramada, Promus Hotel and Radisson, a unit of Carlson -- that helped jump-start the industry by instilling new confidence in it. That induced lenders to open their purse strings, and the hotel companies' adherence to strict standards helped hasten innovations.
Although time-share buyers can take out a mortgage, few bother. Instead, most take out a home equity loan, pay by credit card or put an average of 11 percent down and pay the remainder in installments.
Originally, one drawback was that buyers were locked into spending vacations in the same place year after year. But now many buyers split their week into two-, three- or four-day pieces. They can carry over unused days into another year. They can trade land-based time shares for a vacation on cruise ships.
And in most states they have a grace period in which to cancel the original contract. After Pennsylvania adopted a law in 1990 providing a five-day right of cancellation, "we saw a dramatic drop in the number of problems," said E. Barry Creany, a senior deputy attorney general.
But a big saving grace for the industry sprang from the foresight of Jon and Christel DeHaan, who established Resort Condominiums International in 1974 on their kitchen table in Indianapolis. Their inspiration was to set up an exchange program in which, for a modest fee, time share owners could swap their week in, say, Orlando, for a week in Hawaii or Colorado, France or Japan.
It took a long while for owners to realize there was not a catch. In its first year, Resort Condominiums recorded a mere 236 exchanges at 35 resorts. But last year its members made almost two million swaps at more than 3,500 resorts in about 100 countries. The cost of swapping is $84 a year ($355 for five years), plus $118 for a domestic exchange, $155 for an international swap.
(While the company, owned by Cendant, is by far the biggest exchange company, Interval International in Miami also arranges swaps. Interval is owned by Willis Stein Partners.)
Of course, if you own a time share at the seashore in January, few people will line up to swap with you. But to appreciate the impact of swapping, consider Barbara Rainey, a sixth-grade teacher who lives in Fern Park, Fla. About 16 years ago she bought a one-bedroom time share in Sky Valley, Ga., a ski resort. But "I've only been to Sky Valley once," she said, "because I bought it to exchange in order to travel."
Listing herself with Resort Condominiums, she was able to trade her week for weeks in the Virgin Islands; Cancun, Mexico (twice); Fort Lauderdale, Bermuda, Key Largo and elsewhere.
"Some people don't like to keep going back to the same place," she added, "but with the exchange arrangement you don't have to. Besides, owning a time share forces me to take a vacation, and for that I'm very grateful."
Or consider S. M. Chiu of Bala Cynwyd, Pa. Shortly before retiring from Temple University in 1991, where he was a professor of Chinese history, he and his wife, Helen, bought a $6,000 time share at Tanglwood Resort in Hawley, Pa., in the Pocono Mountains. Over the next few years they swapped for weeks in Switzerland, Florida, California and New Orleans.
But after Mrs. Chiu suffered a stroke in 1993, and Professor Chiu had open-heart surgery the next year, they tried to sell the time share but were unsuccessful.
"I thought time shares were a good deal when they told us we'd own the unit in perpetuity because we had a deed," Professor Chiu said, "but if you can't sell the unit, you're bound for life to keep paying the annual fee."
The amount of that fee, for upkeep, insurance and management, which ranges widely depending on size and location, averaged $360 nationally in 1998.
These days the industry largely soft-pedals the actual or supposed financial advantages conferred by ownership of time shares, preferring instead to stress the "vacation experience."
"I don't buy the idea that you really save a lot of money owning a time share," said Dr. Gerner, an anesthesiologist at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, during a break in the 30-minute sales presentation here. "But there's a nice family atmosphere here, and it isn't as crowded as some other ski resorts we've been to."
There is no easy way to compare the cost of vacationing in one's time share apartment with renting year after year. "It depends on the location and amenities, among other things," Mr. Mutkoski of Deutsche Banc Alex Brown said. "But if your calculation is based strictly on economics, I'd have to say it's probably going to be a good 10 years or more before you break even with a time share."
Somewhat similarly, in deciding whether to rent a unit or sell it as a time share, analysts say, property owners have to decide whether they prefer a recurring income stream each year or getting it up front.
Most time shares are in the Sun Belt, including 24 percent in Florida, most of them in the Orlando area. A handful of time shares have even crept into New York, Boston, San Francisco and a few other big cities, but industry officials say construction and land costs in urban areas will sharply limit their numbers.
Because time shares began in the French Alps in the 1960's, it should be no surprise that the concept arrived first in America at ski resorts, in the 1970's. But Smugglers' Notch did not get into the game until 1983, three years after William P. Stritzler, a former AT&T executive, joined the privately owned resort as managing director. In 1996 he bought the resort for an undisclosed sum, and he still takes visible pride in the accolades it regularly receives in the trade and popular press. Of the 485 condos and town houses here, 155 are time shares, and new ones continue to go up as demand dictates.
Additional units are springing up at many other ski resorts from New England to Colorado, but not just for skiers. Instead of shutting down after ski season, resorts are adding summer camps for children and activities for adults. Smugglers' Notch, for example, has almost 50 summer programs for children 3 to 17, and 40 more for families or adults. And many of those adults have bought time shares.
Yet for all the improvements, it is far too early to confer sainthood on the industry.
Several "vacation clubs" have gone out of business in recent years, leaving members with nothing to show for their investment. And last year attorneys general in 14 states and the District of Columbia filed lawsuits against two Fort Lauderdale companies, National Travel Services and Plaza Resorts, asserting that they misled consumers and subjected them to high-pressure sales tactics. Also named as a defendant was Robin Leach, the host of television show "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous."
The Michigan attorney general said Mr. Leach endorsed an "official-looking" packet of documents mailed to consumers saying they had won a Florida vacation as well as a cruise to the Bahamas -- a "cruise" that turned out to be a ride on a car ferry.
While a spokesman for Mr. Leach said that his client had severed his ties with the two Florida companies in 1998, Mr. Creany of the Pennsylvania attorney general's office said recently that Mr. Leach remained a defendant, adding that a settlement in the lawsuit was expected soon.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos (Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Snapping Up Shares, Week by Week"
After arriving from Europe in the 1970's time shares flourished briefly, then entered a long period of flat sales. But with new options, particularly the ability to trade vacation periods at different resorts, the industry boomed in the 1990's.
 
Graph tracks time share sales volume in the United States, adjusted for inflation from 1975 to 2000.
 
(Sources: American Resort Development Association; American Economics Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HLT (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (59%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC; HILTON HOTELS CORP; DISNEY, WALT, CO CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (82%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC; HILTON HOTELS CORP; DISNEY, WALT, CO AMERICAN RESORT DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (82%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); SKIING (90%); RESORTS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN ANITA GERNER (61%); MALCOLM A NODEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



720 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Swiss Forum Has Its Focus On Memories From Seattle

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 28

 BODY:
World leaders and business executives, gathered for an annual conference beneath the powdery ski slopes of this Alpine resort, have their minds fixed on a rainy American port city 8,000 miles away.
The city is Seattle, where protesters battled police, and trade ministers battled one another under storm clouds last December. The city's name is invoked with such regularity here that its mere mention conjures up fears of a sustained backlash against globalization. 
 The by-invitation-only attendees at the World Economic Forum, an event that caters to a political and business elite and has long championed the march of capitalism and Western values around the world, are treating the surprise collapse of the Seattle talks as the first real crisis to confront globalization since the fall of Communism. Ernesto Zedillo, president of Mexico, lamented today the sudden emergence of "globaphobia," an international force that has singled out global integration as the primary cause of environmental and social problems.
The prime ministers of Britain and Turkey, the head of the World Trade Organization, and the leaders of hedge funds, social research centers, and labor unions echoed that theme in public talks and private conversations here. Sharing goods and ideas across national boundaries still makes economic sense, many said, but it has run into moral and political roadblocks that may prove difficult to overcome. Politicians said repeatedly that global institutions, including the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund and the trade organization, were not up to the task and needed fundamental reform.
"There's no point in pretending that Seattle was not a setback for free trade," Tony Blair, the British prime minister, said in a speech today. "We have an enormous job to do to convince opponents, many of whom I think are wrong, that they can live with globalization."
Mr. Blair proposed that as a first step, leading countries set up a panel to propose how to overhaul the bureaucracy of the World Trade Organization, the Geneva-based body that regulates international trade. He also urged that the United States, Japan and Europe drop all remaining barriers to imports from the poorest countries as a gesture of good will to the developing world, which was instrumental in derailing last month's trade negotiations.
President Clinton also plans to address how to restore confidence in trade and globalization when he speaks Saturday at the six-day conference. Mr. Clinton, who will make a half-day visit, is seeking to recover a reputation as an ardent free trader. Some world leaders blamed his administration for failing to contain demonstrators in Seattle and frightening developing nations with his call to impose tougher labor standards.
The leaders are grappling with the reality that in recent months, popular impressions of globalization seems to have shifted. It is now seen less as spreading prosperity around the world and more as the conduit for a long list of ills. Among the many problems cited: growing inequality between rich and poor people and rich and poor nations; the failure of law and ethics to keep pace with advances in science; environmental pollution; and the rapid spread of financial instability from one country to another.
Much of this reflects the views of protesters who converged on Seattle. While government officials have stressed that the failure of trade talks owes more to negotiating positions taken by World Trade Organization members than to the influence of demonstrators, it is clear that the protest message has quickly become a political priority.
"Globalism is the new 'ism' that everyone loves to hate," said Michael Moore, director general of the World Trade Organization, in an interview. "There is nothing that our critics will not blame on globalization and, yes, it is hurting us."
The paradox of this hand-wringing is that the World Economic Forum, a convention of rich and powerful people carefully cultivated by its Swiss founder, Klaus Schwab, more than 30 years, has long viewed itself as the intellectual godfather of globalization. In fact, critics view the forum, in which elected world leaders convene with top business executives in this heavily patrolled resort, as a cabal that shapes the world order without consulting ordinary people.
The forum is actually more of a gabfest. But Mr. Schwab, saying that the goal of this year's meeting is to create a "social consciousness of the global economy," sought to broaden the invitees this year to include representatives of nongovernment organizations and unions, some of which led the Seattle demonstrations. Many accepted.
That did not stop a Swiss group called the Anti-WTO Coalition from announcing plans to block the winding, two-lane road into town Saturday, during Mr. Clinton's visit. The Swiss Army was on call, promising to keep the road open and the who's who list of attendees safe.
"Some of the NGO's that came here did so knowing that they would be criticized," said Peter Armstrong, director of One World International, a private group opposed to globalization, who is attending the meeting. "But there is a certain sense of victory that we are here at all, that we can voice our concerns on the inside."
John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and a leader of unions who worked to stop the start of a new round of trade talks in December, also attended the forum, along with a group of international union leaders.
"Seattle is just the beginning," Mr. Sweeney said. "Unless workers are involved, globalization will not work."
Business executives also expressed anxiety about whether globalization was working, and some said they were part of the problem.
George Soros, the hedge fund manager, called for world democracies to establish a new global federation that would set labor and environmental standards more effectively than the United Nations. Louis Schweitzer, chairman and chief executive of the French auto company Renault, said business must take a back seat to politics, accepting limits on political contributions and influence, to help restore public faith in elected leaders.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ernesto Zedillo, the president of Mexico, was among global leaders at the World Economic Forum who spoke of their concern that the collapse of the recent talks in Seattle was a serious setback for open global trade. (Associated Press)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (97%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVOS (SWITZERLAND); SEATTLE (WASH); UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (97%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); SKIING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLITICS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TRENDS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); TONY BLAIR (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



721 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Edward Logue, 78, Dies; Fought Urban Decay

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

 BODY:
Edward J. Logue, an urban development czar who organized radical renewal programs to combat municipal decay in New Haven, Boston and New York State, died on Thursday at his home in West Tisbury, Mass. He was 78.
In a career spanning three decades, Mr. Logue spent the 1950's renewing New Haven, the 1960's revitalizing Boston and the 1970's running building programs in New York State. Throughout, he said, he was always guided by his humanistic motto of "planning with people." 
 His critics, however, said he was highhanded, confrontational and "another Robert Moses" -- a reference to the imperious New York City master builder.
Mr. Logue's greatest triumph was his development of the Boston waterfront, which he called a "Walkway to the Sea." Officially, it is the Faneuil Hall-Quincy Market restoration.
"It hit a series of themes just right for the time," wrote Bernard J. Frieden and Lynne B. Sagalyn in their book "Downtown, Inc." (MIT Press, 1989). "For a mass public that had discovered gourmet food, the central arcade served it up in volume and with flair. For a public with a fresh interest in history, the market presented authentic 150-year-old buildings and cobbled paths rich with historic associations. For a generation that had discovered sidewalk cafes and bustling piazzas in Europe, the market brought these pleasures home."
Other elements of the "New Boston" that Mr. Logue devised and oversaw were the new Government Center, the completion of the Prudential Center and a broad overhaul of neighborhoods that gave the city a fresh self-image and attracted tourists from around the world.
It became one of the most copied community development projects in the country.
Mr. Logue made his first big splash in the mid-1950s when Mayor Richard C. Lee of New Haven named him development administrator, and Mr. Logue oversaw the rebuilding of the city's downtown. Given broad authority that previously had been parceled out among several agencies, Mr. Logue reshaped much of the city.
"He was one of the first, if not the very first, to figure out how to tap federal funds that were sitting out there waiting to be used for redevelopment projects," said Norman Marcus, who worked with Mr. Logue as general counsel to the New York City Planning Commission from 1963 to 1985.
But Mr. Logue's work in New Haven is not judged a success today. "It's been heavily criticized," Mr. Marcus said.
"Partly that was because it took too long to do -- quite a few years," he said. "By the time it was finished, it was too late. The market was gone. Shopping had shifted from downtown to the malls in the suburbs. The green had become a wasteland."
But that would not be understood for years to come, and consequently Mayor John F. Collins of Boston hired Mr. Logue to head Boston's Redevelopment Authority. From there Mr. Logue went on to New York City.
Sometimes to his detriment and sometimes to great acclaim, Mr. Logue thought big.
"He used to say you've got to think big if you want to get anywhere," Mr. Marcus said. "But his appetite was larger than his ability to digest. He often reached too high.
"He was a force with tremendous energy," Mr. Marcus continued. "Ed wasn't the kind of person who would sit down at the table and negotiate. He intended to run things by himself. In New York City, there were people who resisted that. They didn't want another Robert Moses-type strong man. Ed scared a lot of people."
Mr. Marcus also praised Mr. Logue for his daring and imaginativeness. "When he came to Charlotte Street, a notorious scene of desolation in the South Bronx, he decided not to do the obvious thing and build row houses or six-story apartment buildings there," Mr. Marcus said. "Instead, he built single-family houses with yards and white picket fences. Some people laughed at first. But he was a smart fellow. That redevelopment worked because he was recreating the American dream, and they're still there today."
But apart from the South Bronx, Mr. Logue's efforts in New York City, at the behest of Mayor John V. Lindsay, are widely regarded as failures.
"Although Mayor Lindsay had hired him, he eventually decided to back the constituency that opposed Ed," Mr. Marcus said.
Edward Joseph Logue was born on Feb. 7, 1921, in Philadelphia, one of five children of Edward J. and Resina Fay Logue. He was a graduate of Yale College in 1942 and Yale Law School in 1947.
In World War II, he served in the Air Force, winning the Air Medal with clusters.
After the war, he was legal secretary to Governor Chester Bowles of Connecticut.
Among other jobs, he led Nelson Rockefeller's New York State Urban Development Corporation and his own company, Logue Development, a consulting firm.
Mr. Logue is survived by his wife, Margaret DeVane Logue; a son, William DeVane Logue of West Hartford, Conn.; a daughter, Katherine, of West Tisbury, and four grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward J. Logue, whose vision for radical urban renewal extended to the decay near Bathgate Avenue and 173rd Street in the Bronx, in 1980. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: URBAN DECAY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (74%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); SUBURBS (73%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: LOGUE, EDWARD J; HONAN, WILLIAM H ROBERT MOSES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



722 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Merit vs. Tradition

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
In proposing to scrap across-the-board wage increases in favor of merit pay, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is pushing a daring experiment in labor relations that has enraged the city unions and has rarely been tried elsewhere.
Mr. Giuliani's plan is unusual because while a sizable number of cities and school districts award workers merit pay in addition to general pay increases, it is almost unheard of for a government body to persuade a union to accept merit pay as the sole basis for raises. 
 Despite the rarity of such merit pay plans, Mr. Giuliani is vigorously championing his proposal, calling it the key to bolstering productivity in the city's schools and offices. But leaders of the municipal unions vow to block any pay plan that does not include an across-the-board pay increase, noting that many of their members are still fuming about the two-year wage freeze in their current five-year contract.
Many labor experts say they expect a compromise that would be less radical than the mayor's plan but that could still usher in major changes. Such a compromise might involve a modest across-the-board wage increase with merit pay sprinkled on top.
The school district in Fairfax County, Va., is one of the few governmental entities to adopt a merit plan similar to the one the mayor envisions. For several years, Fairfax's schools embraced merit pay as the sole basis for pay increases, but the school board eventually decided to drop that plan because it created rancor among teachers and because there was little evidence it was improving results for low-performing students.
"The Fairfax County plan created intense bitterness in the schools," said Rick Nelson, president of the Fairfax County Federation of Teachers. "It gave teachers an incentive to compete against each other and not share ideas."
The Denver school system is experimenting with a similar plan, but it has been limited to a two-year pilot program, with only 350 teachers allowed to participate.
Mr. Giuliani's proposal has won considerable support from conservatives because it is tough on labor. But union leaders say it collides with their demands that all city workers deserve a substantial raise to keep up with inflation. The city's union leaders say they feel betrayed that the mayor would talk about denying municipal workers an increase in base pay when the city's economy is booming and the city has a hefty budget surplus.
Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said she would consider merit pay incentives only if the mayor first agreed to substantial wage increases -- probably greater than inflation -- to make teacher salaries, as well as police salaries, more competitive with suburban counterparts.
"Before you even consider the mayor's proposal, everyone has to realize that if we don't get base pay up, how are we going to fill the 54,000 teaching positions that will have to be filled over the next five years?" she said. "There is a nationwide teacher shortage, which just gets worse in New York City when its teacher salaries are so much lower than those in the suburbs."
Ms. Weingarten, who also serves as chairwoman of the Municipal Labor Committee, which coordinates bargaining for unions representing more than 200,000 workers, said she might consider what she called merit incentives or differentials. But her vision of merit is sharply different from the mayor's.
Mr. Giuliani outlined a plan in which a teacher's performance would be rated on a four- or five-part scale. A teacher then might receive merit increases accordingly, perhaps 6 percent for those rated highest down to those on the bottom, who might not receive any raise at all.
Ms. Weingarten said merit plans should not be based on performance, which she said was hard to measure. Instead, she said, teachers should receive merit increases when they reach new skill levels, like being declared "master teachers" by a certifying board.
Labor leaders in New York, as elsewhere, are wary about merit pay, fearing that it will divide union members and be awarded based on subjective rather than objective criteria, with supervisors' favorites getting the bulk of the rewards.
Last year in New Jersey, the main union representing state workers fought bitterly against Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's plan to consider only merit, and not seniority, when deciding which civil servants to lay off. After a lengthy battle, the two sides compromised, agreeing to let seniority continue to play a major role, while allowing merit to be taken into account in a limited way.
In the cities and states where merit increases or bonuses are sprinkled on top of general pay increases, the plans have received mixed reviews. In Maryland, 35,000 unionized state workers can receive $500 bonuses if their work exceeds general standards or $1,000 bonuses if their work is considered outstanding.
"It's a real incentive to employees to be more productive," said Andrea Fulton, executive director of the state's personnel department.
Union officials are less enthusiastic, saying they found the plan acceptable only because it came on top of a sizable wage increase, 8 percent over two years.
"We were concerned that it would lead to favoritism, and our fears are being borne out," said Steven Kreisberg, assistant director for collective bargaining at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
Professor Richard Murnane of the Harvard School of Education, who conducted a lengthy study on merit pay in schools, said he found that it did little to improve the quality of education. "There's not a single instance in which merit pay for individual teachers has been shown to improve the performance of a troubled school district," he said.
He said merit pay appears to achieve better results in schools in wealthier districts, although he added that a major problem with merit pay plans was that they could undermine teamwork.
"When schools really work, it's because teachers work together," he said. "The potential for individuals to behave in a way that reduces the effectiveness of their colleagues is immense."
Sol Stern, a fellow with the Manhattan Institute, a generally conservative research center in New York, insisted that merit pay would go far to improve New York's schools.
"It's absolutely essential that we have a mechanism in the contract for distinguishing between effective teachers and ineffective teachers," he said. "Teaching is the only enterprise I know of where management does not monitor the productivity of the employees." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES MERIT PAY (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); BUDGETS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); RONALD L NELSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



723 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
MarketsShaken as Economic Statistics Fan Inflation Fears

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28

 BODY:
The American economy grew at a blistering rate of 5.8 percent in the final quarter of last year as it closed in on the record for the longest expansion in United States history.
But inflation also jumped during the quarter and this, along with more evidence of accelerating health costs, make it more certain that the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates by at least a quarter of a percentage point when it meets next week, analysts said. 
 The two government reports published today "amount to the 'smoking gun' that the Fed has been warning would eventually appear," said David Orr, chief economist at First Union Bank. "The key story is the uptick in inflation."
Stocks, which have been retreating for most of the year, were pummeled heavily throughout the day while the bond market gyrated wildly and finished mostly higher, pushing rates lower.
Gross domestic product, the Commerce Department reported, grew at a blistering 5.8 percent annual pace during the quarter, just slightly higher than the summer's 5.7 percent but well ahead of the 5.2 percent that economists expected.
Consumers, many of them holding large stock gains, spent freely; military and other federal outlays rose sharply; and there was a huge buildup in inventories that apparently reflected precautions against computer failure at the turn of the year.
Spending on food, in fact, climbed 9.3 percent -- representing about one-quarter of the rise in consumer outlays -- as many households stocked up, fearing Year 2000 computer problems that proved largely unfounded.
Business spending on equipment and software, on the other hand, grew more slowly as some companies took a breather after preparing for potential Year 2000 problems, while others deferred such spending until the new year, analysts said.
Since many of the factors affecting the fourth quarter, including exceptionally favorable weather, are unlikely to be repeated, analysts say the economy is certain to cool off in the January-March period.
But it is not at all clear that it will cool enough for the Fed to be able to avoid a series of rate increases as the economy in February sets a record for uninterrupted expansion, 107 months. This would surpass the 106 months of Vietnam-era prosperity from 1961 to 1969.
Stan Shipley, senior economist at Merrill Lynch, said Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, "wants it south of 4 percent," referring to growth of the gross domestic product, on the assumption that inflation will break out if the economy keeps exceeding its speed limit. This is set by the sum of population growth, about 1 percent a year, and productivity growth, traditionally thought to be about 1 1/2 percent but now perhaps 2 1/2 percent to as much as 3 1/2 percent.
This report also showed that the savings rate -- personal savings as a percentage of disposable income -- shriveled to 1.9 percent from 2.1 percent in the preceding quarter. The rate was 4.5 percent for 1997, 3.7 percent for 1998 and 2.4 percent for all of 1999.
The inflation number that seemed to upset analysts the most today was the so-called G.D.P. deflator, which jumped to a 2 percent pace in the autumn from 1.1 percent in the summer. But others also advanced, including the price index for gross domestic purchases, up to 2.3 percent from 1.7 percent; without counting food and energy, this index accelerated to 2 percent from 1.2 percent.
But economists also cited the Labor Department's Employment Cost Index, which showed today that while wages and salaries for civilian workers rose the same in the autumn as in the summer, 0.9 percent, the cost of fringe benefits accelerated to 1.3 percent from 0.8 percent.
"The pickup in benefits apparently reflected increased retention bonuses as well as a continued uptrend in health insurance costs," said James F. O'Sullivan, an economist at J. P. Morgan. Wall Street's year-end bonuses, especially hefty for 1999, are expected to have their main impact in the next report.
Pay and benefits of civilian workers advanced 3.4 percent last year, the same as in 1998, as consumer prices advanced 2.7 percent. Benefits include vacations, holidays, sick leave, overtime pay, shift differentials and bonuses, as well as health and life insurance, savings and pension payments and severance pay. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); FIRST UNION BANK OF CONNECTICUT (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; SAVINGS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); INVENTORIES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



724 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: BOXING;
For Tyson, Drama Starts Before the Bell

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY W. SMITH 

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, England, Jan. 28

 BODY:
For 10 days Mike Tyson, America's bad-boy boxer, has captured the attention of this nation. An outpouring of fan support has squashed political opposition to his arrival. He has stimulated the national economy by buying more than $2 million in watches and jewelry. And though he is not even running for mayor of London, he has kissed his share of babies.
Yes, Tyson had been on his best behavior. But today, one day before his heavyweight bout against Julius Francis, Tyson became upset and agitated. Jay Larkin, the senior vice president of programming for Showtime, which is televising the bout, said Tyson went to the Manchester airport instead of staying at his hotel for the weigh-in for his fight Saturday night. 
 The Sun of London and SkyTV, which has pay-per-view broadcast rights in Europe for the fight, reported that Tyson tried to leave Britain and return to the United States. Larkin said: "Tyson was upset. He went to the airport. I don't know what he was upset about. His bodyguard, James Anderson, was with him."
Larkin said he was unsure whether Tyson wanted to leave the country and believed that Anderson talked him into coming back. The Sun reported that members of Tyson's entourage went to the airport, calmed him down and talked him into returning.
Tyson's wife, Monica, and their children did not travel here for the fight, and Tyson was reportedly upset about their absence.
He made the weigh-in an hour late. Reporters who had been told Tyson went to the airport to meet a relative saw Tyson arrive about 4 p.m.
If Tyson was upset, Francis may have added more heat to the fire by keeping Tyson waiting for 10 minutes at the weigh-in. Francis was still in his room when Tyson took a seat on the stage where the scale was and began twirling the small braids on his head. Ten minutes later, Francis arrived. He kept on his black sunglasses for the weigh-in and came in at 244 1/2 pounds. Tyson weighed in at 222 3/4 pounds.
Tyson (46-3) and Francis (21-7), the British heavyweight champion, will meet in the ring at MEN Arena on Saturday night. The 10-round bout will be broadcast on tape delay on Showtime at 10 p.m. Eastern time. On the undercard, Joe Calzaghe (27-0) of Wales will defend his World Boxing Organization supermiddleweight championship against David Starie (22-1) of St. Edmunds, England.
Francis is a heavy underdog in this fight and there isn't much on his resume to suggest that he can beat Tyson. Some reporters here are comparing Francis' situation with that of Buster Douglas, who knocked Tyson out in 1990 and stunned the world of boxing. But Francis is 35 years old, and the speed of his punches can be timed with an hourglass. Plus, he is slow of foot, which means it won't take the 33-year-old Tyson long to track him down.
"The way that Mike has been working in the gym, I can't see anyway that Julius Francis can beat him," Tommy Brooks, Tyson's trainer, said.
A short fight is not what Tyson needs at this point, but it is probably what he will get. Since Tyson was released from prison in 1995, he has had eight fights and has fought only 28 rounds. Take out the 11 rounds he went against Evander Holyfield in their first bout on Nov. 9, 1996, and Tyson has gone 17 rounds in seven fights.
In the last three years, particularly with the two losses to Holyfield (the second fight ended in a disqualification in the third round when Tyson bit Holyfield's ears), Tyson's confidence has eroded. There is a split among those around Tyson. Some feel he needs to step up in competition and get away from the likes of Orlin Norris and Julius Francis. Others believe he needs a couple more nonthreatening opponents to build up his confidence.
"What Mike needs is to be in top condition for his fights, and he needs to fight regularly," Brooks said. "That will build his confidence faster than anything will. When a fighter is in condition he believes he can do anything."
Tyson looks very fit for this fight. By all accounts he has been diligent about training. So, his mind should be clearly focused on Francis.
In his last bout against Norris on Oct. 23 in Las Vegas, Tyson was fit and looked sharper than he had in his bout on Jan. 16 against Francois Botha. But then disaster struck when Tyson clipped Norris on the chin after the bell to end the first round. It was ruled an accidental foul. But the bout was ruled a no contest, because Norris said he couldn't continue fighting.
Norris contended that he injured his knee when he fell from the blow after the bell. And yet another Tyson bout had ended in controversy. Nevada told him to fight elsewhere. So, Tyson crossed the Atlantic Ocean looking for acceptance. He has found it. Now, he has to work to keep it.
If Tyson wants to stay on the track toward a heavyweight championship, he will have to avoid any type of misdeeds in his bout against Francis. Another bizarre ending will undo all the good will he has been able to build in England and derail plans for him to make a European tour, making him a tough sell on two continents. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (88%); EUROPE (79%); WALES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (57%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: SHOWTIME

ORGANIZATION: SHOWTIME

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER (ENG); UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (88%); EUROPE (79%); WALES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOXING; TELEVISION BOXING (90%); PAY PER VIEW (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); MAYORS (57%); 

PERSON: SMITH, TIMOTHY W; TYSON, MIKE; FRANCIS, JULIUS; LARKIN, JAY MIKE TYSON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



725 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: In Glow of Speech, Clinton Basks in Public's Warmth

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: QUINCY, Ill., Jan. 28

 BODY:
The last time Bill Clinton came close to this small city along the Mississippi was in his first run for the presidency in 1992, when his campaign bus roared past here on its way to a rally across the river. He returned today as president, seven years later, to relish the aftermath of his final, proposal-packed State of the Union message.
Mr. Clinton always hits the road the morning after his annual addresses to Congress, repeating themes meant as much for the country's heartland as for the chamber full of lawmakers. 
 In Quincy, a once-struggling city now in the midst of a boom, he chose the ideal spot to bask in the post-speech glow. The quaint streets were lined with well-wishers.
At the downtown square where Mr. Clinton spoke -- the same spot where one of the famous Lincoln-Douglas debates took place -- excited residents huddled in the cold for hours before his arrival, many of them schoolchildren given a snow day despite not a single flurry.
"If you saw the speech last night, you know that I quoted President Theodore Roosevelt, one of my favorite predecessors," said Mr. Clinton, who will soon become the youngest ex-president after Roosevelt. "He's the last sitting president to come to Quincy. I don't know what the others were thinking about."
Many in the crowd indicated they had taken in his televised speech, all 89 minutes of it.
"I watched every part of that speech, every minute of it, and I liked everything he said," said Maurice A. Crider, a retired auto worker who wore a knit hat pulled low over his head. He stood in the center square packed tight with more than 10,000 others.
Not everybody there had voted for Mr. Clinton, but it was difficult to find someone who did not find something meant for them in the speech.
"I loved the photo ID's for guns," said Pam Foster, a counselor at Catholic Charities, backing the president's proposal for state identification cards for handgun buyers.
Kay Wood, a Clinton backer whose family runs a 520-acre farm in Alexandria, Mo., said: "We're grain farmers so what I liked was the farm part of his speech. He said things are in bad shape, and we know that."
Debby Birch, an English teacher at a junior high school, voted for President George Bush in 1992 and Bob Dole four years later, but still jockeyed for position along a rope line for a chance to shake Mr. Clinton's hand. She came away excited that he had said some words to her.
"There wasn't anything he said in the speech that I was against," Ms. Birch said, calling it his "last-chance speech" to try to vindicate his presidency before the next president takes over.
She said she supported Mr. Clinton's education agenda, his tax-cut plan and other parts of the speech, indicating its broad appeal. But she still considered herself very much a Republican. "I still ideologically don't agree with everything he says," she said.
Quincy's unemployment was in the double digits when Mr. Clinton took office. The city suffered heavy damage from the floods that soaked the Midwest in 1993. Aides carefully chose this spot to represent the United States, as a whole, much better off than it had been.
"I was unemployed back in the late 80's and now I'm working," said Ken Gibleon, who took the afternoon off from his job at a downtown nursing home to snap a photograph of Mr. Clinton. "This president has turned the economy around. I give him credit for that. My favorite part of the speech was the help with college tuition. I have a daughter in college, and that hit home with me."
Back in 1992, just up the river in Burlington, Iowa, Mr. Clinton had hammered his opponent for claiming an economic recovery that many Americans could not feel.
"My opponent is quoted as saying the recession is over," he had said as governor of Arkansas. "You just don't know it yet. That's what they've been telling you all along. Things are great. You're just too dumb to see it."
Now things really were great, Mr. Clinton said -- although he took pains to repeat his message from Thursday night that too many Americans were still left out of the country's good times.
"One of the things that really bothers me about this astonishing economic recovery of ours is that not everybody has participated in it," the president said. "And I think all Americans will support us in saying that this is the best time we'll ever have -- with unemployment low and growth high -- to go into these inner cities, into these small rural towns, into these Native American reservations, and help turn their economies around."
Mr. Clinton gathered with several hundred supporters at the White House immediately after the speech on Thursday night, a pep rally that lasted until the wee hours of the morning and prompted the president to nap aboard Air Force One today.
This morning at the White House, Mr. Clinton assessed his performance before about 300 mayors and aides. He restated his long list of proposals, like targeted tax cuts and major funding increases for education and health care.
And he took another crack at the line about making communities more livable that he twice bungled as "liberal" on Thursday night in his moment in the spotlight.
"That was weird," the president said. "In my whole life, I've never mispronounced that word before last night."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Throngs of people turned out in Quincy, Ill., yesterday, in the cold, to hear President Clinton speak on the day after his State of the Union address. Many in the crowd said they had identified with themes in that speech.; President Clinton, sporting a Quincy Notre Dame High School hat, in Quincy, Ill., which has seen an economic upturn since he took office. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; QUINCY (ILL); UNITED STATES (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (72%); CHILDREN (67%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); CHARITIES (67%); GUN CONTROL (66%); GRAIN FARMING (60%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LACEY, MARC BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



726 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Capital Plan May Bump Into State Debt Ceiling

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
From new ferry terminals to courthouses, recreational centers, hospitals, museums and schools, the budget Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani released this week calls for billions of dollars in new spending on New York City construction projects.
There is just one catch: The city is about to run out of bricks-and-mortar funds. 
 The squeeze is so severe -- the city will probably hit a state-imposed cap on borrowing sometime before July 2001 -- Mr. Giuliani announced this week that he would go to Albany to ask for an amendment to the State Constitution to allow the city to borrow billions more.
The proposal to change the law, details of which are still being formulated, has been welcomed, at least initially, by a broad array of city budget watchers, from the City Council Finance Committee's chairman to the New York City Independent Budget Office's chief economist.
"We are approaching a very desperate situation," said Councilman Herbert E. Berman, a Brooklyn Democrat and the Finance Committee's chairman. "We are limited by law to the amount of money we can borrow. But if we can't borrow, we can't build or improve the city."
Concern is also being raised by Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, among others, that the mayor's push to increase construction spending in 2002 to an all-time high -- twice the level now allowed under the state cap -- may ultimately leave the city in a financial bind. The problem, they say, is that too great a share of the city's tax dollars would have to be dedicated in future years to paying off this mountain of new debt.
The portion of city funds spent to pay off debt has already increased to 16 percent in 1999 from 11 percent in 1990. With the tax cuts and new borrowing the mayor has proposed, it could hit 20 percent within four years, or more than three times the spending on the Fire Department, city officials said. "Whatever we are paying out to cover debt is money we don't have to pay for teachers and police officers and firefighters," Mr. Hevesi said. "It is very, very troubling."
No one, including Mr. Hevesi, disputes that the city's capital spending needs are real. Mr. Giuliani's plan calls for $22 billion in city-financed capital spending during the current fiscal year and the next three years, a increase of nearly 50 percent from the previous four years.
Nearly 33,000 new public school seats would be added within the next five years and air-conditioning would be installed immediately in 8,700 classrooms used for summer school as part of the $6.15 billion in capital spending planned for the school system, an increase of $1 billion from what the mayor had previously proposed. The Williamsburg, Manhattan and Brooklyn Bridges would be rebuilt with another $811 million in capital funds. And hundreds of millions more would be spent to build a new sewage treatment plant in Greenpoint and on a project to prevent pollution of Flushing Bay.
Then there is the list of new economic development projects Mr. Giuliani has recently been promoting, including a stadium complex on the West Side rail yards and a recreation and shopping complex at the Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx. New courthouses are proposed for Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens. "This is the largest number of new courts and courthouses that have been built in the city probably in a hundred years," Mr. Giuliani said.
The city has a variety of sources of to pay for construction, including state and federal aid. But the most important source is general obligation bonds, the sale of which are limited by the state formula. First established in the 1930's, the cap prohibits the city from borrowing more than 10 percent of the assessed value of taxable city real estate, averaged over the previous five years.
Between 1989 and 1994, the debt limit doubled, as a result of a surge in value in real estate prices. But during later years the debt limit plummeted, making it difficult for the city to manage major spending projects. To keep projects moving, city officials in recent years devised techniques to ensure capital funds were available.
The mayor now wants to revise the formula permanently, perhaps by adding personal income-tax or sales-tax revenues to the calculation, resulting in a broader and more stable tax base upon which to issue debt.
Ronnie Lowenstein, chief economist and deputy director of the New York City Independent Budget Office, agreed that the formula needs to be revised to try to eliminate the unpredictable swings in the cap. But Ms. Lowenstein, Mr. Hevesi and others also cautioned the city must be careful to not take on too much new debt in the process.
Deputy Mayor Joseph J. Lhota and Robert Harding, the mayor's budget director, reject suggestions that the city is planning to borrow too much. All of the projects that Mr. Giuliani has proposed in his four-year plan can be paid for without forcing the city to significantly curtail spending on basic services, or leaving the city with a deficit, they said. "It is a bogus argument," Mr. Lhota said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS -- City Seeks More Borrowing Power"
To help finance construction projects across the city, Mayor Giuliani wants the state to raise its cap on the city's debt. These figures represent the portion of capital spending controlled by the cap.
 
CAPITAL SPENDING PROGRAM
 
'00
Existing debt cap: $4.2 BILLION
Proposed spending: 3.6
 
'01
Existing debt cap: 2.8
Proposed spending: 2.8
 
'02
Existing debt cap: 2.8
Proposed spending: 5.6
 
'03
Existing debt cap: 3.1
Proposed spending: 3.6
 
'04
Existing debt cap: 3.2
Proposed spending: 3.3
 
(Source: Mayor's Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); MAYORS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (75%); TAX LAW (74%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BONDS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); TRENDS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: LIPTON, ERIC; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



727 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Airlines Stepping Up Battle For Luxury-Class Travelers
As the battle for the premium-fare passenger intensifies and airlines offer luxury more typical of a cruise ship, Virgin Atlantic has said it will soon introduce the first private cabin in a major carrier equipped with a double bed.
The cabin, which will go for about $18,000 for a couple, is Virgin's attempt to put romance back into flying, said Richard Branson, Virgin's chairman. British Airways and American Airlines also plan to put beds or seats that convert into beds on transatlantic flights. A1. 

Japan Forced to Seek Bank Loans
The Japanese government plans to borrow about $8 trillion yen, $76 billion, directly from banks rather than by issuing bonds in an unusual move that demonstrates the country's precarious financial situation is. A1.
 
Lockheed's Results Meet Forecasts
Lockheed Martin said its fourth-quarter operating earnings totaled $227 million, a 20 percent decline from the period a year earlier, because of higher costs and slowdowns in its aeronautics and space programs. The results met Wall Street's forecasts but its stock price fell 56.25 cents, to $18.875. C2.
 
Brokers in Japan Post Good Results
Japan's three largest brokerage firms -- Nomura Securities, Daiwa Securities and Nippon Securities -- posted their best profits in a decade, illustrating their strong comeback from severe weakness just a few years ago and defying predictions of their demise. C2.
 
Multiple Sclerosis Drug Endorsed
An advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration recommended that a cancer chemotherapy drug, mitoxantrone, should be approved as a treatment for multiple sclerosis. The drug is made by the Immunex Corporation of Seattle. A13.
 
F.T.C. Reschedules Amoco Hearing
The Federal Trade Commission rescheduled its hearing to consider whether to block the proposed $30 billion merger of BP Amoco and ARCO. The commissioners had been scheduled to consider a staff recommendation to block the deal Monday but they rescheduled it for Wednesday. Officials said that some commissioners wanted more time to consider a new offer made by the companies this week to sell additional assets. C14.
 
New York Times to Issue New Stock
The New York Times Company announced plans to issue a new class of stock that will track the value of the company's Internet properties, becoming one of the first newspaper companies moving to capitalize on investor enthusiasm for the Internet. C14.
 
Softbank Plans Online Unit Spinoff
Softbank plans to spin off ZDNet, the online unit of the U.S. media company Ziff-Davis, and sell its trade show arm. Softbank, the largest Internet investment company in Japan, owns a 69 percent stake in Ziff-Davis. Shares in ZDNet fell $2.1875, to $27.875; Ziff-Davis fell 93.75 cents, to $17.875. C3.
 
Korean Bank Ownership Restricted
The South Korean government will not allow the nation's major business conglomerates to own banks, a secretary to the president for economic affairs was quoted as saying. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,738.87 down 289.15
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.45% down 0.07
The euro -- $0.978 down 0.01
The dollar -- 106.98 yen up 1.89
 
Graph tracks ZDnet weekly closes since April 2, 1999.
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 9984 (TSE) (84%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (82%); NYT (NYSE) (81%); 4726 (TSE) (81%); LMT (NYSE) (70%); BP (NYSE) (65%); BP (LSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (81%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (81%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (65%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (65%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (91%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); SOFTBANK CORP (84%); AMGEN INC (82%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%); SOFTBANK TECHNOLOGY CORP (81%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (70%); BP PLC (65%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES AIRLINES (91%); CRUISES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BONDS (75%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); MERGERS (71%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (70%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (69%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); APPROVALS (64%); CANCER DRUGS (64%); 

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



728 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE STRATEGIES;
Negative Campaigning 2000: The Other Guy Did It First

BYLINE: By PETER MARKS 

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Jan. 28

 BODY:
These days, the candidates see nabobs of negativism everywhere.
At a debate this week, former Senator Bill Bradley said Vice President Al Gore had gone negative on him. Mr. Gore called that accusation a "negative attack" on his integrity. At a town hall meeting in Nashua on Thursday, Senator John McCain rallied the crowd with the wish that in the final week of campaigning here, "We won't be having any negative ads." And in a new commercial on New Hampshire television stations, a Republican group quotes Bob Dole as saying that the attack ads in the 1996 primaries left him "battered, bruised and broke." 
 "Mr. Forbes, stop the negative ads," the commercial's voiceover concludes, referring to the Republican contender, Steve Forbes. "Don't help the Democrats."
All this talk by the candidates of how mean they are being to one another has more than a few New Hampshire voters bewildered. Given the history of truly vituperative primary campaigns here, this year's strikes a lot of people as being closer in tone to high tea than "High Noon."
"It's just a shadow issue," Dave Naughton, a political independent from Nashua who had come to Mr. McCain's meeting, said with a shrug. "I take it for what it's worth: something they talk about."
Suddenly, though, the candidates seem to want to talk about this all the time. It is a fixation that is rooted in the time-honored campaign tradition of spreading bad news about the other guy. The difference is that this year, the bad news they seek to spread is that it is the other guy who is spreading the bad news.
Keenly aware that voters here and across the country say they are tired of the kind of media mudslinging that has come to be known as the politics of personal destruction, strategists are expending large amounts of money and energy to convince the public that their opponents' campaigns are much more negative than they truly are. In commercials and debates, in grip-and-grin events and television interviews, the candidates and their surrogates are branding as negative comments by their foes that in other campaigns might have been dismissed with a yawn.
"It's actually a pretty sophisticated strategy," observed Darrell West, a professor at Brown University who studies political advertising. "It used to be that candidates would go negative to pin negative information on their opponents. Now, what they are trying to do is play the blame game, blaming their opponent for the tenor of the campaign."
What gives this a weird sense of disconnect for voters is that by most measures, Campaign 2000 has been about as raucous as a game of croquet.
"By and large, the candidates have been remarkably issue-based," said Brad Rourke, director of the Project on Campaign Conduct, a nonprofit group in Camden, Me., that seeks to establish guidelines for civility in campaigns. "You read the papers and it sounds as if what they are having are really tough issue debates."
Of course, things could get truly nasty in a hurry. The New Hampshire primary has a not-so-proud tradition of mean-spirited advertising on the last weekend of the campaign; most infamously, there was the advertisement put on the air in 1988 by Vice President George Bush that labeled Mr. Dole "Senator Straddle" for refusing to sign a pledge not to raise taxes, a spot that helped doom Mr. Dole's candidacy here. And in the last couple of days, various campaigns have been playing cat and mouse with one another, threatening to more broadly criticize their opponents and even broadcast the dreaded attack ads -- but only, of course, if their rivals do so first.
"If they say something inappropriate to us," declared William Dal Col, Mr. Forbes's campaign manager, "we've got material prepared to be delivered to level the playing field."
But even Mr. Forbes, whose attacks on Mr. Dole on the airwaves in New Hampshire four years ago were some of the most vicious the state had ever seen, is pulling his punches, running commercials that illustrate his positions on economic issues. The campaign, in fact, has run only one spot that might be viewed as negative, in which an anti-tax advocate from Texas criticizes Governor Bush for his tax policies.
Mr. Dal Col complained that in the current climate, the impact of such spots -- well within the boundaries of fairness, in his view -- is muted by the loud, righteous protests from the other side. "Any time you talk about his record, they spin it as negative," he said. "Here is a constituent who says Bush broke his tax pledge. But they want no debate, so they do the negative thing by accusing us of being negative."
Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, scoffed at the idea that Mr. Bush was the aggressor. "I think the voters make a rather informed judgment on who is negative and who is positive," he said." "That's one of the reasons Steve Forbes is having so much difficulty gaining any traction."
Political campaigns are built to take the pulse of public sentiment and play to some popular rhythm, and that may partly account for how voguish it is at the moment to portray the opposition as negative. For negative is highly out of fashion. In a poll of 800 adults across the nation in November by Mr. Rourke's organization, nearly 80 percent said they believed attack-oriented campaigns produced leaders who were "less ethical and less trustworthy."
The poll found, Mr. Rourke said, that while "it's bad to be attacked, it's worse to be perceived as an unfair attacker."
That may help to explain why so many of the harsher commercials that have made it to the airwaves this year have been sponsored by third-party groups. Organizations as diverse as the Sierra Club, the National Abortion Rights Action League and Americans for Tax Reform have run spots here focusing on one candidate or another. The most tactically sophisticated, however, has been a series of spots run by the Republican Leadership Council, including the new advertisement with the words of Mr. Dole, that has been designed to head off any attempt by Mr. Forbes to go negative.
Mark Miller, the council's executive director, said the group began running the spots in November. "I think everyone in the party felt he went way too hard last time and did lasting damage," Mr. Miller explained. "We wanted to tell him in an ad, warning him not to go down that road again."
Of course, such a spot has another function, reminding viewers that this was a candidate prone to go on attack. Voters may simply tune a lot of this out; Mr. McCain, for instance, always gets applause when he mentions his disdain for attack ads, but virtually never a follow-up question. Yet to some monitoring the candidates' behavior closely, even the accusations of negativity have a corrosive effect.
"Frankly, developments in the past week have disturbed me," said the Rev. C. Welton Gaddy, executive director of the Interfaith Alliance, a nonsectarian organization based in Washington that promotes ethical conduct. In December, the group persuaded five candidates -- Messrs. Bush, McCain, Bradley and Gore and Senator Orrin G. Hatch -- to sign what it called the "Framework of Civility for Presidential Candidates," in which they agreed, among other things, to not run commercials that vilified their opponents.
Now, Mr. Gaddy worries that with all the claims of attack, the atmosphere of civility is endangered. "We have moved to the edge of a precipice," he said, "and I hope we take a step back." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); 

CITY: NASHUA, NH, USA (88%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NOW WHAT SOFTWARE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NASHUA, NH, USA (88%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; POLITICAL ADVERTISING POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: MARKS, PETER AL GORE (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



729 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
Wake Me When It's Almost Over

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
"An exciting time . . . an exciting result!" declared MSNBC's anchor, Brian Williams, on Monday night as he broke the news that "Alan Keyes has rocketed" to third place in the Iowa caucuses.
Talk about excitement! A man who has never been elected to anything, a man whose third-place finish amounted to only 14 percent (some 12,000 votes) of a lower-than-hyped Iowa G.O.P. turnout, a man who is less likely to be elected president than Bill Belichick, is rocketing! What does it matter that his rocket's destination -- unless it's as a permanent talking head at a place like MSNBC -- may be oblivion? This is history in the making. 
 The only problem is, despite the hard sell, the country isn't buying. Even as the caucuses were meeting in Iowa, Harvard's Kennedy School was tabulating its latest polls for its new worrywart project on the Vanishing Voter. The numbers showed that despite weeks of Iowa and New Hampshire headlines, and despite the likelihood the whole nominating process will be over by March 7, only 26 percent of the public is paying attention to the campaign. A mere 6 percent of those polled describe themselves as paying "a great deal of attention" -- which is astounding, given that more than 6 percent of the country is either employed by government or a major media organization and therefore might be thought to have a vested interest in Election 2000. What's more, 66 percent don't support any candidate in any party, and 56 percent pronounce the campaign "boring."
Boring? That's the unkindest cut of all, especially given the competition offered this week by professional show business: Barbra Streisand's numbing State of Her Union filibuster at the Golden Globes. If anything, our political culture has been in overdrive, trying to cook up creative story lines. There were the sagas of George W. Bush's smirks (and alleged snorts), Al Gore's sighs (and alleged tokes), John McCain's tantrums, Bill Bradley's heart flips, Warren Beatty's mind games and, of course, Donald Trump's sex life. There was the Naomi Wolf "alpha male" flap and the spirited debate over the true meaning of the Confederate flag. There have been the fascinating colloquies over the differences between the Democrats' health care plans and the Republicans' tax-cut plans. Not to mention the touching spiritual pageant of candidates publicly embracing Jesus.
Even the fringe acts have been worthy of Barnum & Bailey in their heyday. Gary Bauer, the forward-to-the-past family-values candidate, actually did arouse nostalgia for the sideshow era of the Dionne quintuplets by arranging for his donors to gawk at Iowa's McCaughey septuplets in exchange for a $250 campaign contribution. Nearly as bizarre was Mr. Keyes's accusation that Senator McCain, a man who risked his own young life in war, was in peacetime guilty of "aiding and abetting the cultural murder . . . of our young people" because he made a joke about liking the music of Nine Inch Nails.
Surely, though, the most spectacular geek show is that of Steve Forbes, who has spent $60 million of his own money to act out his delusions on the public stage. No one will say the poignant truth about this guy -- that even if he were a better speaker, or less of a hypocrite (how can the billionaire owner of Forbes magazine inveigh repeatedly against the "media elites"?), there would still be the insurmountable problem of his giggly Peeping Tom grin and pop-eyed spectacles. The most virulent, if least acknowledged, bigotry in this country -- far more widespread than sexism or racism and practiced by all genders and ethnic groups -- is looksism. Even in the pre-HDTV era, no one is going to be elected president who doesn't meet the minimal physical standard required of a game-show host.
That the majority of the public choose to ignore all the year's political players is, professors might tell us, a sorry commentary on the state of both the electorate and American politics. We're lousy citizens. Young voters are selfish, ill-informed slackers. Bill Clinton has made all politicians look like dirt. Everyone hates the media.
But a case could also be made that the people in this country, far from being stupid or unpatriotic, are disengaged for good reason. At a time of boom -- polls show that 73 percent say they are better off than eight years ago, and 81 percent want "steady progress" rather than "big, bold" ideas from the next administration -- Americans recognize that the two Democrats and the two Republicans who actually have a shot at being president will not rock the boat. They may also realize that the four men's quarrels on the issues voters care most about (health care, education, Social Security, Medicare) are mostly modest differences about highly incremental means, not ends. The old, bold ideological polarities -- big government programs from Democrats, big government cutbacks from Republicans -- have been sanded down in the Clinton era. Foreign-policy issues aren't even on the table. No wonder the low-rated debates generate sparks only when they resemble "Saturday Night Live" skits, as witness Mr. Keyes's recounting of his excellent adventure in a mosh pit.
Where there still are violent ideological disputes, mainly on cultural issues involving the boundaries of church and state, they are predictable, since the candidates all conform to party stereotype: every Republican hopeful wants to thwart Roe V. Wade, both Democrats want to protect it. Anyone casting a November vote on the basis of which side gets to appoint Supreme Court justices could skip the rest of the campaign and cast absentee ballots now, without waiting to find out the identity of the nominees.
Given four contenders so eager to hug the center, conventional wisdom has it that this election is a battle over character -- hence the endless dissection of smirks and sighs and the constant lookout for this year's magic balm, authenticity. But none of the big four show any sign whatsoever of being sociopaths or, despite the Bickersons routine of Messrs. Gore and Bradley, compulsive liars. Nor, being politicians, will any of the four prove to be completely authentic or free of smarminess -- including Mr. Bradley, who resuscitated Willie Horton for no logical reason, and Mr. McCain, who suddenly found benign dignity in a rebel flag just 24 hours after he had condemned it as a symbol of slavery.
What all four of these men lack is not decency but the vision thing. Neither Mr. Bradley nor Mr. McCain has so far succeeded in his quixotic efforts to arouse public passion about campaign finance reform or the plight of the 27 percent of the country that is not better off than it was eight years ago. Perhaps they fail to command the moral high ground because they, like their opponents, are so blatantly in thrall to big bucks. (To see which corporations have their hooks into which candidates and parties, check out the new paperback "The Buying of the President 2000" from Charles Lewis and the Center for Public Integrity.) Nor have any of the four candidates kept pace with the fast-advancing issues raised by the new digital economy; if they had, maybe the young people who are being either engaged or turned away by that new world might listen to them.
This is instead a fat and happy election, built on the supposition that rosy surplus estimates are accurate and the boom is forever. It feels less like the first election of a new century than the final election of the old one. It's surely the last to be adjudicated by network TV anchors, perhaps the last without widespread Internet balloting, possibly the last in which the parties' summer infomercials will still be referred to as "conventions."
As such, there's no reason to join the 6 percent of Beltway junkies hanging on every Keyes bounce. Which doesn't mean that it won't get more interesting in the stretch. The increasingly inevitable story line that the political press has feared from the start -- that this might actually be a Bush-Gore horse race -- may be far less boring than the alternative narratives that have been trotted out to try to upend it. If 2000 really is the year of Bush-Gore, at some point the Texas governor will have to stop clinging to his twin mantras of "compassionate conservatism" and states' rights every time he wants to duck a controversial issue, and the vice president is going to have to start talking about Buddhist monks. The earth may not move, but the system may have produced just the tepid managers Americans want in a transitional time.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IOWA, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FILIBUSTER (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); BRADLEY, BILL; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); FRANK RICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



730 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Markets Shaken as Economic Statistics Fan Inflation Fears

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stock prices fell sharply yesterday as the three major market indexes prepared to post their worst performances for a January in a decade or more.
If the current levels hold through Monday, the technology-heavy Nasdaq index, off 4.5 percent for the year, will chalk up its worst start to a year since 1990, the year that the nation's last recession began. The Dow Jones industrial average, down 6.6 percent, will have its worst January since 1978. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, down 7.4 percent, will have its worst January since 1970. 
 Oddly enough, this disappointing performance occurs just as the nation's economy is setting a record for the longest economic expansion in its history.
The sell-off was caused by rising short-term interest rates and growing fear that the Federal Reserve might have to slam -- rather than just tap -- the brakes to slow the economy.
That concern was heightened yesterday as the government reported that inflation, employer costs and economic growth all rose more than expected in the last three months of 1999.
The Commerce Department said that gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 5.8 percent in the last quarter. The inflation gauge rose 2 percent in the quarter, almost twice the 1.1 percent rise in the third quarter. Meanwhile, the Labor Department said that its employment cost index rose 1.1 percent, powered by the largest increase in health care payments, bonuses and other benefits in six years.
"When the Fed is going to be raising rates, the stock market is going to be going down," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, the chief United States strategist at Lehman Brothers, who is still optimistic about the stock market's outlook for the year. "And I think that is all that is going on here."
But given the strong economy and increasing inflationary pressures, the Fed might now have to raise its short-term interest rate target more than the two quarter-point moves that Lehman Brothers has forecast, Mr. Applegate said. "The equity correction could be longer in duration and deeper in decline than it would have been," he said. "But unless the Fed has to tighten a lot, this still shouldn't be more than a correction."
Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said he did not think there was any sign of a major upswing in inflation. But, he said, "I think we are starting to see cyclical forces pushing inflation higher and the markets are having to deal with that."
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 289.15 points, or 2.62 percent, to 10,738.87 yesterday. The S.& P. 500 dropped 38.40, or 2.75 percent, to 1,360.16. Technology stocks, including Qualcomm and Amazon.com, showed their volatility as the Nasdaq composite finished at 3,887.07, down 152.49, or 3.77 percent.
The performance of the stock market in January has been a reasonably good -- but not sure-fire -- predictor of performance for the entire year. Over time, the stock market has tended to do better the rest of the year after strong Januarys than after weak ones. But remember that in 1987, the Dow rose 13.8 percent, its best January ever, before crashing in the fall of that year. The Dow plunged 508.33 points, or 22.6 percent on Oct. 19,1987.
The Dow is now on the way to recording its biggest January loss since the 7.4 percent decline it posted the first month of 1978, while the S.& P. is approaching the 7.65 percent decline of January 1970. The Nasdaq index's previous worst January was the 8.6 percent decline in 1990.
While stock prices fell yesterday, the bond market convulsed. The fear of rate increases by the Fed sent shorter-term interest rates higher, while a sudden influx of cash as investors sought the safety of government debt, pushed long-term rates lower. The decline in long-term interest rates was surprising given the whiff of inflationary pressure in the government economic reports.
But this may have been explained by special factors, including the Treasury's plan to buy back a lot of longer-term debt as it pays down the nation's debt with growing federal budget surpluses. The expected relative scarcity of 30-year bonds in the future has made them especially attractive.
The yield on the 30-year bond dropped to 6.45 percent, from 6.52 percent on Thursday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 28/32 , to 9525/32 . But in a sign of the fears of rising short-term interest rates, the yield on the Treasury's two-year note jumped to 6.54 percent from 6.51 percent and is higher than the yield on the 30-year bond for the first time since 1990.
In the past, such an inverted yield curve, if it persisted, has signaled that the economy was going to slow or that even a recession was possible. But the special factors that have lowered the yield on the 30-year bond make it a unreliable predictor, according to some economists. In fact, the yield on Treasury's 10-year note, at 6.69 percent, is still higher than the 2-year note.
Karen E. Parker, director of currency research at Chase Securities, said that the cash flooded into the Treasury markets after investors sold off Europe's single currency, the euro, the last two days. It fell through the psychologically important $1 level on Thursday and slid even lower yesterday, ending at 97.78 cents, down from 98.86 cents.
Ms. Parker also said that losses from the euro trade appeared to bring about changes in the strategies of investors in other currencies, leading to sell-offs of these currencies against the dollar. The most drastic was the Australian dollar, which plunged 3.7 percent against the American dollar yesterday. The Japanese yen also fell.
There were also rumors that a hedge fund had suffered major losses, triggering some of the turmoil in the currency markets. Ms. Parker said that whether or not this was true, the selling of the Australian dollar was not just from one source. She said it was widespread and done by a lot mainline institutional investors.
Many hot performers of last year have been dropped during the decline in the stock market so far this year. For example, three of the top 10 performers in the Dow last year -- Wal-Mart, Microsoft and Home Depot -- are among the 10 top losers so far this year, all with 14 percent or more declines.
In addition countercyclical stocks like pharmaceuticals and consumer staples, which do well even if the economy is slowing, have performed well. Merck, which rose 2 1/8, to 76 1/4, yesterday, is up almost 14 percent for the year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)
 
Graphs: "A Volatile Market..."
Graph tracks monthly changes in the level of the Nasdaq composite index.
 
"...And A Strong Economy"
Graph tracks annual rate of change for the gross domestic product.
 
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Commerce Department)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (51%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); AMAZON.COM INC (50%); QUALCOMM INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (66%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



731 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Bed Is Latest Weapon in Airline Perk Wars

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

 BODY:
The battle for the premium-fare passenger, in which airlines offer luxury more typical of a cruise ship, has risen to this: One major airline will later this year introduce private cabins equipped with double beds.
The cabins, on Virgin Atlantic, will go for about $9,000 for one -- or about $18,000 for a couple -- on a round-trip trans-Atlantic flight. 
 "We're trying to put the romance back into flying," said Richard Branson, chairman of Virgin Group, the parent of Virgin Atlantic.
In fact, the real target is the business traveler. The airlines have good reason to be concerned about such passengers' comfort. Surveys of business travelers, who buy only 20 percent of all tickets but account for about half of industry profits, find that executives would rather snooze during long flights than dine on cabernet and caviar.
Competition is becoming intense to add more in-flight bunks, although most are spartan affairs. British Airways will begin replacing business-class seats in March on flights between New York and London with single beds that the airline boasts have been tested by a NASA scientist to deliver better sleep. Virgin Atlantic is also introducing a new lounger for business class. By spring of next year, American Airlines will have swapped its first-class lounge chairs for seats that convert into beds on all trans-Atlantic and trans-Pacific flights.
Seats that fold into single beds have long been reserved for first-class passengers. Within the next several months, business travelers will have comparable cots at about half the cost.
Within three years, British Airways and Virgin Atlantic will spend about $800 million between them to improve premium service, beyond a $10 billion plan to buy new jets. British Airways predicts that its new beds will increase its share of business travelers between the United States and London, one of the industry's most profitable routes, by almost 2 percent.
Flat-lying beds are cherished perks, since few business travelers have sampled them. A typical British Airways flight from New York to London has only 14 single beds that are sold as first-class seats. By reconfiguring business class with new beds, which are less private than in first class, an additional 70 passengers can have them.
In-flight beds on routes across the Pacific are almost exclusively reserved for first-class passengers. British Airways said that its business-class beds would be installed on all long-haul flights, including those to Asia, within the next 18 months. "One reason that you are seeing all these improvements among the airlines now is that the environment has become so competitive," said Carl Michel, head of the commercial group for British Airways. "On some routes, passengers can choose between 10 airlines."
The airlines have had a long history with beds, even though some industry executives want to pass them off as new amenities. In the 1930's, the Douglas Sleeper Transport, which was used on long night flights, carried as many as 16 people in sleeping berths that were about three feet wide and almost six and a half feet long. MGM Grand Air, which was controlled by the investor Kirk Kerkorian and operated primarily between Los Angeles and New York, had private compartments in the late 1980's, with seats that folded into double beds.
Over the years, beds disappeared to make room for more seats, lifting airline revenue. The trend to drop amenities has reversed recently, with airlines conjuring up new luxuries to lure passengers. Several major airlines -- including British Airways, Qantas Airways and Singapore Airlines -- have private pods with seats that convert into single beds as part of first-class service. But such service, especially to Asia, has a high price. Qantas, for instance, charges $10,844 for a first-class round-trip ticket between Los Angeles and Sydney.
Such features have begun to drift down into business-class cabins. Passengers who book an upper-class seat, the equivalent of British Airways' business class, on any Virgin Atlantic flight can be buffed up by a masseuse and manicurist.
"The carriers keep raising the bar in terms of their premium cabin product," said Sam Buttrick, an airline analyst at PaineWebber. "The leading-edge business class at its inception was an enhanced coach. But many business classes are now better than what was offered in some first-class cabins five or six years ago." First class these days tends to be the domain of top corporate executives, royalty, entertainers and the super-rich, with other affluent people choosing business class.
The airlines are not neglecting economy-class passengers entirely. Some are adding videos to the backs of seats and making chairs more comfortable.
British Airways and Virgin Atlantic conducted extensive research in developing their beds. Mr. Branson said that passengers appreciate his airlines' luxuries so much that they go out of their way to try them. About half of Virgin's passengers are willing to be awakened just to have a complimentary manicure, Mr. Branson said.
To introduce the double beds, which will be about four and a half feet wide and slightly more than six feet long, Mr. Branson will create a first-class cabin, which will force him to buy larger jets to get the extra space.
Mr. Branson jokes that the private double berths will herald a new era for in-flight sex. "We are legitimizing the mile-high club," he said. But he believes that 90 percent of his double-bed customers will be business travelers.
"Most of these people who buy the bed tickets will be executives trying to get from Point A to Point B," he said.
Within the next few months, Virgin Atlantic will also introduce seats that convert into beds for upper-class passengers. Mr. Branson concedes that the seat does not lie fully flat, which has already earned snickers from executives at British Airways.
While the Virgin Atlantic recliner will remain in straight rows of two within the cabin, British Airways will couple its new business-class beds like lounge chairs. Some will face forward and others backward.
In part of each bed, British Airways will include an electrical outlet for passengers' laptop computers, as well as a phone. After passengers complained about standing in line to get their baggage, British Airways will allow its business travelers to carry on 40 pounds of luggage, double what they were allowed before.
The introduction of in-flight bunks has stoked the rivalry between Virgin Atlantic and British Airways.
"The idea of Virgin's double bed is a marketing gimmick," Mr. Michel said. "Richard Branson has been promising that for years. The real argument against a double bed is that couples rarely travel together on business. What happens when one wants to stay up and the other wants to lie down?"
Affable on most matters, Mr. Branson turns almost icy when talking about his London rival. Noting that British Airways may lose millions of dollars this year -- the airline's earnings have declined in recent quarters -- Mr. Branson said, "That just shows that you get your just deserts when you don't keep your quality up."
More elaborate luxuries are on the way. Airbus Industrie said that its proposed new jumbo jet, which will be able to carry more than 500 passengers, could be equipped to include several lounges and sleeping compartments.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A computer-generated image of Virgin Atlantic's first-class double bed in its compartment. The bed is about four and a half feet wide. (pg. A1); Jayne O'Brien, a British Airways executive, and a colleague demonstrate a mock-up of the airline's new business-class seat that converts into a bed. Such seats will be introduced in the spring. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)(pg. C14)
 
Chart: "Comfort in the Skies"
The competition for business travelers, who account for half of all airline revenues, has led British Airways and Virgin Atlantic to add a number of amenities, including the following in their premium classes.
 
VIRGIN ATLANTIC
 
PREMIUM ECONOMY
Seats that recline to take up additional 38 inches of room.
Choice of three meals and fruit available throughout the flight.
Toiletry kit, including a phone card, socks and eye shades.
 
UPPER CLASS
Seats that recline to take up additional 60 inches of room; sleepwear, duvet and blankets.
In-flight bar and lounge.
Custom meals on demand, including wine and Champagne.
In-flight massage and beauty services.
 
BRITISH AIRWAYS
 
BUSINESS CLASS
Seat that reclines into a bed, includes a footstool.
Hot and cold buffet and meals on demand.
Heavier weight allowance for carry-on luggage.
 
FIRST CLASS
Private cabin and seat that reclines into a bed; sleepwear, duvet and blankets.
A buddy seat for private meetings.
Custom meals on demand, including wine and Champagne. (pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); 

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS; BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC; AMERICAN AIRLINES BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (92%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS; BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC; AMERICAN AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BEDS AND BEDDING; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT AIRLINES (94%); CRUISES (90%); 

PERSON: MORROW, DAVID J RICHARD BRANSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



732 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-6
 
I.R.A. Balks at Disarming; Ulster Peace Plan in Doubt
Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn Fein, ruled out the possibility that the I.R.A. would meet a Monday deadline for beginning to disarm, dashing expectations that the guerrilla force his party represents politically was ready to move on weapons. A1
 
Judge Orders Stop to 'Hoopla'
The federal judge weighing the fate of Elian Gonzalez told lawyers representing the Cuban boy's Miami relatives to stop what he viewed as excesses in rallying public opinion. He also moved up the date for their response to a Justice Department filing, to Feb. 14 from Feb. 24. A4 

Elian's father, interviewed in Cuba, appealed for his son's return. A4
 
Terror Suspect Arrested
A suspect in an aborted terror plot, Mohambedou Ould Slahi, who is thought to be linked to the Osama bin Laden network, was arrested in Mauritania, federal officials said. A4
 
China Frees Researcher
A United States-based scholar held for five months on vague charges of providing confidential materials to foreigners was released, ending an episode that had strained United States-China relations. A3
 
Russian Calls Charges Slander
A senior aide to former President Boris N. Yeltsin, Pavel P. Borodin, who is apparently charged in a Swiss money-laundering case, said in Moscow that the accusations were slanderous and that he would face questioning in Switzerland if asked. A6
 
Journalist Held in Chechnya
Officials confirmed that they had detained a journalist who was reporting from Chechnya for Radio Liberty. They said the journalist, Andrei M. Babitsky, was not accredited by the military to cover the war. A6
 
French Corruption Inquiry
Judges examining possible corruption at the formerly state-owned French oil company Elf Aquitaine have notified a former finance minister, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, that he is being investigated in connection with payments to a secretary. A6
 
Anti-Bias Law in South Africa
Parliament passed a bill outlawing discrimination on the basis of race, ethnicity and sex. The bill also bans discrimination against gay people, pregnant women and the disabled. A3
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A7-13, 16
 
U.S. Admits Radiation Killed Weapons Workers
A government review of studies of worker health and raw health data has concluded that workers making nuclear weapons were exposed to radiation and chemicals that have produced cancer and early death. The finding raises the prospect of compensation payments of perhaps millions of dollars to what could amount to hundreds of families, though officials cautioned that any decision was still a long way off. A1
 
Bush Contingency Plans
Gov. George W. Bush has taken steps to cushion himself against a possible loss in New Hampshire by intensifying advertising and organizing in states where he had not planned such heavy early investments. A11
 
No Campaign Finance Attack
Bill Bradley did not, as some aides had promised, assail Vice President Al Gore on the issue of campaign finance abuses, and instead accused him of dishonesty on the issues of abortion and gun control. A10
 
Enlisting Hollywood's Help
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen is asking Julia Roberts, Tom Cruise and other celebrities to help armed forces recruiting efforts on television, radio and the Internet. A16
 
More Storms in the South
A heavy blast of snow cut across parts of the Southeast, forcing schools and businesses to close and slowing traffic in Arkansas, Mississippi and Tennessee. The storm weakened as it moved into Alabama, but forecasters predicted that another could move into Georgia today, threatening to disrupt Super Bowl events in Atlanta this weekend. A7
 
Religion Journal A13
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Still With the Right Stuff
John Glenn, who became the oldest astronaut at age 77, endured the effects of space flight as well as, if not better than, the younger astronauts who accompanied him on the space shuttle in 1998, scientists said. A12
 
Panel Backs Drug for M.S.
A cancer chemotherapy drug, mitoxantrone, is the first effective treatment for certain forms of advanced multiple sclerosis and should be approved for that use, a panel of scientific experts told the F.D.A. A13
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
U.S. Judge Criticizes Rules Keeping McCain Off Ballot
A federal judge disparaged the system adopted by New York's Republican leadership for the presidential primary, indicating that he was strongly considering easing the rules to let Senator John McCain appear on the ballot across the state. B1
 
Looking Forward to Trial
The four officers accused of murdering Amadou Diallo are said to be eager for their trial to begin on Monday in Albany, where they will have the chance to explain how they came to fire 41 shots at an unarmed man. B1
 
End of Welfare-to-Psychic Work
New York City officials said they were ending an arrangement that guided welfare recipients to jobs with a psychic telephone service. B3
 
Car-Seizure Case Dropped
Brooklyn prosecutors asked a judge to dismiss the charges in the first criminal case to be brought under the city's year-old policy of seizing the cars of people arrested on drunken driving charges. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-20
In Search of a Common Identity
Advocates of a proposed Museum of Europe hope it will serve to reinforce the idea of a common European identity, emphasizing a shared cultural heritage rather than a history of rancorous conflicts. B9
 
As Time Goes By
"Mental athletes" will gather in Manhattan next Saturday for the national memory championship, which requires contestants to quickly memorize decks of cards, names and faces, long numbers and so forth. B11
 
OBITUARIES B7
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Tyson's Indecision
Mike Tyson was said to have sought to leave Britain the day before his fight against Julius Francis, which is to be televised by Showtime. D1
 
Davenport Wins in Melbourne
Lindsay Davenport defeated Martina Hingis, 6-1, 7-5, in the final of the Australia Open. B15
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
High-Flying Private Quarters
Virgin Atlantic is planning to offer a private cabin equipped with a double bed, priced at $9,000 for a single and $18,000 for a couple on a trans-Atlantic flight. Other airlines are planning less grand sleeping accommodations. A1
 
Japan Turns to Its Banks
The government plans to borrow money directly from banks to fulfill its obligations to local governments, an indication of how precarious the financial situation has become. Governments normally borrow money by issuing bonds, which is cheaper than taking out bank loans. A1
 
Economy Soars, Stocks Slump
The American economy grew at a blistering rate of 5.8 percent in the final quarter of 1999 as it closed in on the record for the longest expansion in United States history. That led investors and analysts to conclude that the Fed would raise short-term interest rates by at least a quarter of a percentage point next week to slow things down. C1
 
Share prices fell sharply, leaving the three major market indexes about to post their worst performances for a January since 1990, the year the nation's last recession began. The Dow fell 289.15 points, or 2.6 percent, to 10,738.87, on the day; the S.& P. 500 dropped 38.40, or 2.8 percent, to 1,360.16, and the Nasdaq was down 152.49, or 3.8 percent, at 3,887.07. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: Soviet-style elections in New York; Austria's extremist temptation; new boys on the block.
 
Columns: Frank Rich, Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B19
 
TV Listings B20
 
Crossword B18
 
Weather A12
 
Public Lives A7
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CUBA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ELF AQUITAINE SA (53%); SINN FEIN (84%); AL-QAEDA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SINN FEIN (84%); AL-QAEDA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CUBA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LIBEL & SLANDER (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); JUDGES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); JOURNALISM (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LAWYERS (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); TERRORISM (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); CANCER (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ETHNICITY (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); MONEY LAUNDERING (68%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (68%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (66%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (66%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (65%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (64%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (62%); ACCREDITATION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (53%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



733 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers Get A Lecture From Judge In Boy's Case

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN with LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 28

 BODY:
The federal judge hearing the appeal by relatives of Elian Gonzalez to raise him in Miami, away from his father in Cuba, told their legal team today to stop all its "hoopla" and "excesses" in rallying public opinion.
The judge, William M. Hoeveler, moved up the date for them to respond to the Justice Department's contention that no court has authority to override its decision to repatriate the child. Saying the lawyers did not need a month to prepare their response, he moved their deadline to Feb. 14 after having set it at Feb. 24 only Thursday. He also set a hearing for Feb. 22. 
 Elian, 6, who lost his mother at sea more than two months ago as she fled Cuba with him to Florida, is fast becoming an international celebrity, with lawyers and public relations agents trotting him out daily.
But after hearing the lawyers' televised comments saluting the near-month they had been given to respond, Judge Hoeveler called the special hearing today, telling the lead lawyer, Spencer Eig, "I'm concerned about all of the hoopla, all of the demonstrations, all of the excesses that have taken place."
"This case," he said, "will be tried on the law and the facts without all the additional fanfare, and I hope we all understand that."
On Thursday, Mr. Eig had ridiculed the Justice Department's "chutzpah" for the nearly two-inch-thick file it submitted to the court, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida.
When he asked the judge today to advise him on responding to the news media, Judge Hoeveler said, "I don't want you to comment about what they're doing, about what you're doing, about how bad the government is."
In Washington, as prospects for making Elian an American citizen bogged down, the Roman Catholic nun who brought the boy together with his Cuban grandmothers on Wednesday -- and who now believes the boy should stay in Miami -- privately appealed today to Attorney General Janet Reno, a longtime friend, to change her mind. Although the meeting proved fruitless, Sister Jeanne O'Laughlin said she impressed upon the attorney general that the boy had already deeply bonded with his Miami relatives.
"Had he gone back to Cuba the first week or second week, the position I feel would be different," Sister Jeanne, president of Barry University in Miami Beach, said after her meeting with Ms. Reno.
But Ms. Reno, in a statement issued after the meeting, said she still saw no legal reason to alter a ruling by the Immigration and Naturalization Service that Elian should be returned to his father.
On Capitol Hill, Sister Jeanne's change of heart, and her visit to their offices, re-energized lawmakers who are pushing to make Elian a citizen. Sister Jeanne has visited Cuba and supports lifting the economic embargo against the island, an unpopular position in Miami, so her words are seen to carry extra weight in Florida.
"Sister Jeanne has a tremendous reputation in Miami, Dade County and South Florida as being a lady of principle," said Senator Connie Mack, the Florida Republican who introduced the citizenship bill in the Senate.
But Senator Mack, who said he hopes to move forward with the bill late next week, acknowledged that it faces a rocky road. Several Democrats have threatened to block it, and even Senate Republicans, who initially seemed to embrace the idea, are divided.
Lobbying to the point of exhaustion, Elian's grandmothers have made several trips to Capitol Hill to try to thwart the legislation. They met with several more lawmakers today but were expected to return to Cuba this weekend.
In the House, the legislation's prospects appear no better. Representative J. Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House, sent the bill to the Judiciary Committee, and the chairman of the panel, Representative Henry J. Hyde, Republican of Illinois, decided today to set it aside until the courts make a decision. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (91%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUDGES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (84%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REFUGEES (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, ELIAN; GONZALEZ, JUAN MIGUEL; KILBORN, PETER T; ALVAREZ, LIZETTE; HOEVELER, WILLIAM (JUDGE) JEANNE O'LAUGHLIN (86%); WILLIAM M HOEVELER (67%); JANET RENO (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



734 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: New York Drops Psychic Training Program

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
Nine months after New York City began recruiting welfare recipients to work from home as telephone psychics, city officials decided that there was no future in it.
Yesterday, Jason A. Turner, commissioner of the city's Human Resources Administration, announced the end of the city's arrangement with a company calling itself Psychic Network. 
 "Though H.R.A. believes people should have the freedom to choose their own employment, H.R.A.'s Business Link has decided not to include the Psychic Network as one of its participating employers," Mr. Turner said in a one-paragraph statement issued yesterday.
The decision to part company with the Psychic Network came on the same day that an article on the arrangement was published in The New York Times. Since April, 15 welfare recipients had been trained to read tarot cards and hired by the Psychic Network through Business Link, a division of the city welfare department set up in 1995 as part of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's welfare-to-work effort.
A barrage of brickbats and belly laughs met the revelation of the city's venture into the telepsychic realm.
Stephen DiBrienza, chairman of the City Council's Committee on General Welfare and a vigorous opponent of the mayor's welfare policies, seemed almost gleeful in his outrage.
"It's bizarre," he said. "Remember, this is taxpayer funds. I don't think I could find anything more bizarre and at the same time more disturbing if I tried."
Mr. DiBrienza, who has accused Mr. Turner of failing to answer the committee's questions about the types of jobs the city's welfare-to-work programs provide, added, "It's no wonder they stonewall us if these are the kinds of jobs they're pushing."
Shelley Ackerman, the president of the New York chapter of Astrological Federation of America, was upset for other reasons.
"I'm horrified that this is going on," she said, eager to draw a line between a quickie course in tarot and "astrological studies that have been around for thousands and thousands of years." "That a city agency would do this -- it's unbelievable, it's just unbelievable."
Any business that hires a welfare recipient for at least three months can qualify for thousands of dollars in wage subsidies and state and federal tax credits.
"There's no criteria at all," said Carmen Ortiz, national coordinator of the tax credit program said in a recent interview. Michael Kaufman, a financial economist with the United States Treasury Department, estimated the federal tax credits granted nationwide in the program at $370 million.
According to city figures, Psychic Network was one of 161 businesses that successfully recruited with Business Link, which was set up to connect companies in need of workers with welfare recipients in need of jobs. In his statement, Mr. Turner cited as examples Bell Atlantic, Macy's, Rite Aid, Madison Square Garden and United Airlines.
A collection of city recruitment fliers saved by a welfare recipient included three promoting the Psychic Network jobs. Other fliers included jobs as stock clerks, home health aides and, in an October notice, seasonal Christmas wrappers at Tiffany & Company for $7.50 an hour.
City officials have refused to provide a complete list of participating companies on the ground that they were promised confidentiality, unless they chose to go public. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PSYCHIC NETWORK BUSINESS LINK (69%); HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (71%); NEW YORK (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: PSYCHIC NETWORK HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (71%); NEW YORK (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; PSYCHIC PHENOMENA ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (86%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); TURNER, JASON A (COMR); DIBRIENZA, STEPHEN (COUNCILMAN) RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



735 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: City Hall Accepts Bids to Operate Airports

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

 BODY:
Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia, jealous of Newark Airport's trailblazing role in the infant aviation industry back in 1939, wanted New York to have its own bustling airport and decided to build two. But just nine years later, Mayor William O'Dwyer -- chafing under the airports' high costs -- signed a longterm lease ceding their operation to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Every mayor since then has accepted that arrangement, giving up control of a resource in return for freedom from unpredictable expenses and the political perils of dealing with as noisy and intrusive an operation as an airport. 
 At least, that was the case until now.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who maintains that the Port Authority has mismanaged the nation's busiest airport system and favored Newark International Airport over Kennedy and La Guardia, wants to take back the two New York airports and have them run by a private company.
Yesterday, the city took its first step toward that goal, as it accepted proposals from four companies. The company that wins the contract would act as the city's consultant, looking over the shoulder of the Port Authority's airport managers until 2015, when the agency's lease expires and the company begins managing the airports.
City officials said the switch will mean an end to the annual "diversion" of $150 million in airport revenues into Port Authority coffers to subsidize money-losing operations like the PATH trains and the Port Authority Bus Terminal, and a reinvestment of that money into the city's airports. With its greater measure of control, the city can force service improvements and lower fees, and be freed to compete with a thriving Newark Airport for flights, said John S. Dyson, chairman of Mayor Giuliani's Council of Economic Advisers.
For many in the growing airport-management industry, the opportunity to run New York's airports is seen as a real plum, given the tremendous increase expected in the air travel over the next decade and the increasing importance of New York.
But some in the industry say the city's effort to take over from the Port Authority is in many ways counterintuitive. Still others who support the Port Authority's stewardship view the mayor's effort as a vindictive swipe at the agency and a move that may put a company's profits ahead of local or regional interests.
David Z. Plavin, president of the Airports Council International of North America, which represents airport operators, said that few municipalities are seeking to take over airports these days, preferring instead to leave operations to independent authorities.
One reason, he said, is federal laws that prohibit diversion of airport revenues into municipal coffers -- a restriction that does not apply to the Port Authority, which can mix revenues from a host of operations in the region, presumably to benefit them all. Under those conditions, many city officials around the country reason that with managing airports they get all the responsibilities and headaches and few of the perquisites and financial returns.
"It is a recent thing for airports to be seen as profitable by themselves anyway," Mr. Plavin said. "Now the mayor doesn't think he is getting the best management, but most consider the Port Authority as doing a pretty good job."
Adam Whiteman, senior vice president of Moody's Investor Service and an analyst who follows the airport industry, said New York's move to take over the airports was unusual but was not likely to trouble airport-management companies, which want a piece of "the premier air transportation market."
Port Authority officials countered the city's complaint that they divert $150 million a year in airport funds by noting that in any given year they pump as much as $150 million in capital improvements into the New York area airports. The authority has embarked on a $10 billion improvement program that includes train connections between Kennedy, subway and bus lines and the Long Island Rail Road. In addition, Kayla Bergeron, the chief spokeswoman for the Port Authority, pointed out that in recent years the city had rejected the agency's offer to increase its annual lease payments to the city by $50 million.
"The city's Economic Development Corporation wants to pay someone to spend the next 15 years watching the Port Authority rebuild the New York airports while they forfeit $50 million a year in increased rental payments that have been offered by the Port Authority," Ms. Bergeron said. "That seems like a curious way to manage public resources."
The four companies that submitted bids to the city were BAA USA, a publicly held British company that owns Heathrow Airport near London and manages airports in Indianapolis, Harrisburg, Pa., and Melbourne, Australia; Hochtief, a German company that runs the Dusseldorf Airport and other small European operations; Schiphol, the Dutch company that runs the airports in Amsterdam and Brisbane, Australia, and a consortium that includes the managers of the Zurich airport.
Anthony P. Coles, a senior adviser to Mr. Giuliani, said the city expected to establish a selection committee next week to examine the bids closely, and hoped to have a consultant in place "in the next several months."
The Port Authority, which is not playing a role in the selection process, still retains control of the airports and therefore does not have to agree to the arrangement.
Among those who are wary of the city's plan is Elizabeth Braton, chairwoman of Community Board 10, near Kennedy Airport. She said that although she had had her differences with the Port Authority over operations at the airport, its officials were accessible and open to compromise.
"I'm no fan of the Port Authority, but they at least listen, while privatization creates an interest in the bottom line, which can clash with the interests of the people," Ms. Braton said.
Stephen Berger, who was executive director of the Port Authority during the 1980's, said the mayor's plan ignored the regional nature of transportation. "This is the result of an angry and vindictive guy who doesn't like any organization on individual over whom he does not have total control." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); PORT AUTHORITY (97%); NEW YORK (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY PORT AUTHORITY (97%); NEW YORK (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; PRIVATIZATION; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC); NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NJ) AIRPORTS (94%); PORT AUTHORITIES (92%); CITIES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MAYORS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); AIRLINES (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (67%); CONTRACT AWARDS (66%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (53%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



736 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATS;
Bradley Attacks Gore, but Not on Campaign Finance Issue

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO with KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: NEWPORT, N.H., Jan. 28

 BODY:
A day after some of his top aides said he was likely to attack Vice President Al Gore for campaign finance abuses, former Senator Bill Bradley held back his toughest punches today and instead accused Mr. Gore of being dishonest on the issues of abortion and gun control.
But later in the evening, Mr. Bradley talked in general terms about the embarrassment the Democratic Party suffered from the Clinton-Gore campaign's aggressive fund-raising in 1996. He did not mention the vice president by name. 
"We have to face up to the fund-raising scandals of 1996," Mr. Bradley told a gathering of New Hampshire Democrats tonight. "They were disgraceful for both Republicans and Democrats, but they were most embarrassing for Democrats, because we're the party of the little guy. We're the reform party."
Earlier, at an event intended to appeal to New Hampshire's large number of independent voters, Mr. Bradley picked up the endorsement of former Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut, a Republican turned independent. He then proceeded to attack Mr. Gore's integrity.
"We can do great things if we don't have a politics that drags us down," Mr. Bradley told more than 250 people who gathered in an old opera house here, just four days before New Hampshire's Democratic primary, the first in the nation.
Some of Mr. Bradley's aides had predicted he would directly attack Mr. Gore for his role in the party's fund-raising in the 1996 campaign.Many people consider the issue to be Mr. Gore's greatest political liability, largely because Attorney General Janet Reno has investigated fund-raising phone calls made from the White House by President Clinton and Mr. Gore. She decided there was no evidence of wrongdoing.
The decision to avoid criticizing Mr. Gore about those events reflected disagreements among Mr. Bradley's top advisers over how to approach a potentially potent, and contentious, line of attack against the vice president.
It also suggested that Mr. Bradley's advisers, and Mr. Bradley himself, remain uncertain about how far they want to take their newly aggressive attacks, which began this week.
In discussions that went late into Thursday night, some advisers argued that Mr. Weicker's announcement would be an ideal time to raise the fund-raising issue. But others said it would muddy the message of the event: an appeal by Mr. Weicker to independent voters. Mr. Bradley himself was involved in those discussions, the aides asserted.
While the advisers decided against mentioning Mr. Gore in criticizing the 1996 fund-raising, they said today that Mr. Bradley might yet attack the vice president on the issue this weekend.
For his part, Mr. Gore said today that his campaign would refrain from attacks. Arriving in New Hampshire after a trip to Washington for the State of the Union address, Mr. Gore said, "I'm going to emphasize the positive."
The vice president, who is trying in these final days to win over New Hampshire's independent voters, made almost no reference to the president's address. But he did seek credit for being part of an administration that has overseen a near-record economic expansion.
Mr. Gore was asked in local television interviews about Mr. Bradley's stepped-up aggressiveness in attacking him. But after months of insinuations that Mr. Bradley's proposed economic program would squander the surplus and risk taking the country into recession, he was determined today to stay above the fray.
"See," Mr. Gore said, "I'm not going to get down to that level. I'm going to continue to emphasize a positive agenda."
Mr. Gore said repeatedly that the voters did not want to hear negative attacks.
Throughout the day Mr. Bradley used his New Hampshire campaign appearances to accuse Mr. Gore of being untruthful about three issues of great importance to many Democratic voters: abortion, health care and gun control.
At a morning event in Lebanon, Mr. Bradley asserted that Mr. Gore had used "tricky" words to mislead voters into thinking that he supported the licensing of all owners of handguns, when he had actually called for licensing only new buyers.
And he asserted that Mr. Gore has said he supports universal health care without offering such a plan. Mr. Gore contends that his proposal for expanding health care would cover nearly as many people as Mr. Bradley's plan, and at a lower cost.
"I think when you listen to Al Gore speak, you have to listen very carefully," Mr. Bradley said. "Because old politics uses words in a very tricky manner."
Later, in response to a reporter's question, Mr. Bradley asserted that Mr. Gore had been dishonest about changes in his views on abortion. Mr. Gore says he has always supported a woman's right to an abortion, but Mr. Bradley asserts that the vice president was once an opponent of abortion.
"I'm glad his position evolved," Mr. Bradley said. But, he added, "why does his camp say he's always held this position?"
Mr. Bradley's campaign also began running a television commercial today describing him as the only presidential candidate who has consistently supported a woman's right to an abortion.
The Gore campaign countered by releasing a letter signed by more than 40 Democratic members of Congress vouching for the vice president's support of abortion rights and urging Mr. Bradley not to create "differences that do not exist" between the two Democrats.
But Mr. Gore has a mixed record on abortion, having voted several times while he was in the House against the position favored by abortion-rights advocates. Anita Dunn, an adviser to Mr. Bradley, said tonight that indeed there were differences between the two candidates, in that Mr. Bradley has always supported abortion rights.
The Bradley campaign is hoping to magnify Mr. Gore's claim about having always supported abortion rights into a larger question about his character and his ability to tell the truth.
"We think it's an issue that people are curious about, and coming off of the debate it raises questions about candidates' positions and whether they have been totally truthful in the past," Ms. Dunn said.
The Gore campaign was clearly concerned about the emergence of abortion as an issue in the Democratic primary. The letter that it released tonight tries to divert attention from Mr. Gore's votes against federal funding for abortions for poor women and put the focus on the the fact that the leading Republican contender, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, opposes abortion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Bradley was joined by former Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut yesterday in Newport, N.H., where Mr. Weicker, a Republican turned independent, endorsed the Democrat's presidential bid. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRIMARIES; ENDORSEMENTS; ABORTION; FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; FINANCES; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FIREARMS (77%); GUN CONTROL (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); 

PERSON: WEICKER, LOWELL P JR; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DAO, JAMES; SEELYE, KATHARINE Q AL GORE (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2000



737 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey;
In Newark's South Ward, a New Distribution Center

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
MANY of the houses in the neighborhood are vacant and boarded up, and packs of stray dogs wander the streets, but here in the South Ward a new 100,000-square-foot distribution center has been built and was fully leased before construction was completed.
The center, which may eventually employ as many as 100 people, is an attempt by the city and a private, nonprofit development group to take advantage of the area's principal asset: its geography. South Ward is within a few minutes' driving time of the growing Newark Airport and the adjacent container seaports. It is also in the midst of a tangle of highways, including I-78 and I-95, the New Jersey Turnpike. The local Routes 1-9 and 22 are nearby as well. 
 Although it is a distance from Newark's downtown, with its glittering new performing arts center, a minor league baseball stadium and the promise of more sporting events, the project at Bergen Street and Hawthorne Avenue has just what distribution and logistics companies need. In addition to proximity to the ports and highways, the new building has high ceilings, which permit the storage of more goods per rented square foot; 30 docks for unloading and loading; and an expansive paved area on the seven-acre site so tractor-trailer trucks, which have grown longer in recent years, can turn around.
"The area had all the problems of urban blight, but the proximity to I-78 and the ports made it attractive to freight forwarders," said Ronald Sholom, chairman of SBWE, the brokerage that represented the project.
"It's a one-minute drive to I-78 and there are six ways to get there," said Mark Tannen, a vice president of SBWE who was also involved in the South Ward project. "If there is a jam on the highway, you can take local roads to get around it."
A booming economy and the need for distribution facilities close to markets like New York and northern New Jersey have put pressure on the industrial real estate market and helped attract tenants to the South Ward project, despite the appearance of nearby blocks.
"The industrial market is brisk and there is not much product available," said Benjamin Katz, a senior managing director of Insignia/ESG's operations in New Jersey. "The vacancy rate is below 7 percent, and rental rates are up 10 to 15 percent over the last year."
He said the period of free rent, which owners offer tenants in times of slack markets, has all but disappeared and allowances for the cost of interior construction have dwindled as well. He said industrial properties in New Jersey are now leasing before the previous tenants have vacated, a new practice for the area.
"In New Jersey a property usually went vacant for a time before being re-let, but now buildings are starting to lease before they become vacant," Mr. Katz said.
ANOTHER issue affecting the market, brokers said, was that many of the older buildings in the area have low ceilings and are considered unsuitable by distributors, who want the cubic space provided by taller ceilings.
"It's a lot cheaper to go up rather than out," Mr. Sholom said. "It's like using air space."" He said the "shelf life" or time of usefulness of industrial buildings was shrinking as the development of super-flat floors, which make it possible to stack products higher, and new sprinkler fire-fighting systems attracts tenants to more modern properties.
Rental rates in places like the South Ward are under $10 a square foot annually, said Mr. Tannen, while properties immediately adjacent to the airport can demand rents in the mid-teens per square foot a year.
Since it is intended to be the centerpiece of local development that will include new housing, a school and a police station as well as additional warehousing and distribution, South Ward Industrial Park, as the distribution center is known, is not a drab concrete block box. Several towers interrupt the roofline and windows that are set high in the walls of the distribution center to suggest offices on the second floor.
There is no second floor, of course, but the windows add an accent to the building's outer appearance and bring natural light into the building's interior. "We didn't want it to look like an industrial building, that's the reason for all the schmaltz on the outside," said Alfred L. Faiella, executive director of the Newark Economic Development Corporation, the nonprofit organization that is working with city government on the South Ward project.
Inside, infrared heaters over the dock entrances keep people and cargo from freezing in cold weather. Because the work is done in hours of darkness, spotlights are trained to beam deeply into cargo trailers.
Since the area had once been largely residential, assembly and preparation of the land was difficult. "Every 25 feet there was an oil tank and a foundation," left over from the housing that once stood on the lot, Mr. Faiella said. In all, he said, close to 600 oil tanks had to be removed.
Assembling the land was simplified because many of the lots had reverted to city ownership because of the nonpayment of taxes. Mr. Faiella said about 15 percent of the land had to be condemned by the city to produce unified sites.
Mayor Sharpe James of Newark, who once represented the South Ward on the city council, described the distribution center as "a start." He said work on a building for a school that has been in temporary quarters for 27 years will begin this year.
He said indecision by state highway authorities about whether to build a section of road in the area had delayed efforts at renewal. "We had a problem with the State Department of Transportation," he said. "They put a freeze on development." But now, he said, the highway issue has been resolved "and we can make our plans."
Another reason for the delay in redeveloping the area was plans by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to develop the area industrially in the early 1980's. The authority could never make the economics of its proposals work out, Mr. Faiella said, but did contribute to the $9 million cost of the South Ward project.
One of the tenants at South Ward Industrial Park is Forward Air, a company that ships cargo collected by some companies that promise overnight delivery ostensibly by air shipment. Instead, much of the cargo is transferred to wholesale shippers like Forward Air who move it by truck on a tight schedule.
"We can move freight on the ground faster than the airlines," said Thomas Keegan, the company's vice president for operations for the northeast region. The company ships freight overnight to locations where the delivery company can collect it for distribution to individual businesses and homes.
"We are wholesalers to the air-freight forwarders and airlines," he said. "We move time-sensitive shipments. If something is picked up at 10 p. m. in Washington, we will have it in Boston by 9 a.m."
Since the air-delivery companies are near airports, it was important for Forward Air to be close by to minimize the time between trips back and forth. "We need to be near our customer base, but we could not find any property to buy," Mr. Keegan said. "This was a godsend."
There are other cleared sites that are slated for industrial development within a few blocks of the new distribution center and opportunities in old, slightly contaminated industrial properties, known as brownfields, Mr. Sholom said. Since the state has relaxed the cleanup rules for properties that will remain in industrial, rather than residential use, he said there were more opportunities to put projects on sites that are already served by highways, water and sewers, electrical power and other parts of the infrastructure.
In the South Ward, he said, the cleared land will support 100,000 square feet of development, which may be developed as two 50,000-square-foot buildings. He said the search for tenants for the first building in the area brought expressions of interest from other companies.
"We are in negotiations with Newark officials on the next phase, which should start to come on within 12 months," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: South Ward Industrial Park, exterior and interior. Super-flat floors make higher stacks possible. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)
 
Map of Newark, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH WARD INDUSTRIAL PARK (92%); NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE AUTHORITY INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; SOUTH WARD INDUSTRIAL PARK (NEWARK); STORAGE COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (85%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); DOGS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SPORTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); BASEBALL (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (66%); FREIGHT BROKERS & FORWARDERS (64%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (53%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



738 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1819 words

HEADLINE: Practical Traveler;
Fewer Barriers For the Disabled

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
A NUMBER of changes making travel more accessible for people with disabilities have unfolded in recent days. Here are some of these developments.
The world's largest economy lodging chain, Days Inns of America, reached an agreement with the federal Government last month that should mean an increase in motel rooms adapted for disabled guests. 
 The agreement between Days Inns of Parsippany, N.J., a division of the Cendant Corporation, and the Justice Department ended a dispute of more than five years. The chain will require that owners who plan to open motels bearing its name must certify the places comply with the Americans With Disabilities Act. It will also pay for a survey to identify problems at places built since 1993 that have already opened, and establish a $4.7 million interest-free loan fund to help franchise holders at these hotels make needed renovations. The chain also paid the United States $50,000 in penalties. Days Inn has 152,000 guest rooms in 1,800 properties in the United States.
John L. Wodatch, head of the department's disability-rights division, said he hoped that the agreement would serve as a model for other franchising companies that play a role in the design of independently operated hotels and motels. Mr. Wodatch said it was a difficult agreement to reach because the company said it was not in the hotel business but in the franchising business.
 
What the Law Calls For
 The disability act, signed by President George W. Bush in 1990, requires that motels built after Jan. 26, 1993, meet particular rules: public areas and a percentage of bedrooms must be accessible by wheelchair; alarms, telephones, bathroom fixtures and the like must accommodate guests with vision or hearing impairments or other disabilities. In 1994, the Justice Department began investigating newly built Days Inns; Mr. Wodatch said then that consumer complaints against the chain outnumbered those against other companies.
In 1996, the department sued five new Days Inns, their architects and contractors as well as Days Inns of America and its parent company, now Cendant, saying that the motels did not provide equal access for disabled guests. A number of other properties originally on the lawsuit list reached settlements before they were sued. The parent company responded that it had no responsibility for individual motels' compliance with the law, that it merely licensed the brand name and provided certain services for a fee.
The department found some problems recurring throughout the chain, among them, insufficient accessible parking, inaccessible entrances and walkways; inadequate signs for those with limited vision; bathroom doors too narrow for wheelchairs.
Last month's settlement, filed in federal court in Kentucky, where one of the five motels was situated, came after 13 months of mediation. Days Inns said it believed the settlement was "good for our customers, the traveling public and the hotel industry." Attorney General Janet Reno said that she hoped other hotels and hotel-franchise companies would make similar changes to assure full accessibility.
The law says that properties built before 1993 need make accessibility alterations only in areas being renovated; this means that landmark properties and other historic hotels that do not renovate can still have lobbies with a lot of steps and no ramps, registration desks too high to reach from wheelchairs and other features that may thwart disabled guests.
London theater will be more accessible for travelers with hearing loss during a tour scheduled for March by the Theater Access Project of the Theater Development Fund. This nonprofit organization, sponsor of the TKTS discount-ticket booths in Manhattan, believes this is the first London theater tour for hearing-impaired Americans. The League for the Hard of Hearing and its affiliated Advocates for Better Communication have joined to sponsor the trip for 25 participants.
The group will take along a screen that displays dialogue in two-inch-high electronic captions. This display was developed by an American, Don DePew, using court-reporting computer programs. It has been used in Broadway and Off Broadway theaters for three years, according to Lisa Carling, the project's director.
The script for "Antony and Cleopatra," as presented by the Royal Shakespeare Company at the Barbican, and for a West End play will be transcribed into the system ahead of time, along with notes on offstage sounds and the like. In the theater, the device is placed at the side of the orchestra and an auditor scrolls three lines at a time as the dialogue is spoken. Although amplification devices are available in London theaters, the Theater Access Project believes that this will be the first use of open captioning there. The London theaters are advertising the performances, and seats may be reserved in the caption-viewing seats.
The seven-night trip, leaving March 25, has other events and tours scheduled. The cost is $1,999 a person with two in a room at the Strand Palace Hotel on the Strand. Air fare on British Airways, departure and hotel taxes and transfer of one piece of baggage are included. A single room costs $430 more. The reservation deadline is Feb. 10. Theater Access Project, (212) 221-0885, extension 257; the TTY (teletypewriter) number is (212) 719-4537; www.tdf.org. The League for the Hard of Hearing is at www.lhh.org.
 
Rights in the Air
In the Denver airport, I encountered a group of wheelchair users waiting to board. I was amazed to learn that they were a team going to play Quad Rugby, a fierce game played by quadriplegics. "It becomes clear that wheels are weapons, and pity should be checked at the door," a Denver Post reporter said in describing a game in November.
The treatment of disabled passengers aboard planes is governed by the Air Carrier Access Act, a law older than the disability-rights act, but it looked complicated to me getting a batch of wheelchair passengers onto one plane. The act anticipates this possibility, requiring that any group of 10 or more with disabilities give the airline 48 hours' notice.
Jennifer Theisen, who works at the Craig Hospital in Englewood, Colo., and is coordinator for the group I met, the Denver Harlequin Rugby Club, said that United Airlines gave her a lot of help in the eight trips her 15-member team made in a season. She avoids connecting flights, and United can get the team nonstop to most tournaments. She orders bulkhead seats for the players and the accompanying people, she said, and generally this works out. The players are boarded ahead of the other passengers, reaching their seats in the airline's narrow aisle wheelchair and getting into them by boosting themselves over any fixed chair arms. Ms. Theisen said that although the players were quadriplegics, they had varying degrees of upper-body mobility and were strong.
The passengers' own wheelchairs are the last things to be checked into the luggage compartment, as the law requires, she said, and they come out first and are ready at the Jetway. Ms. Theisen said that the team usually got off the plane last.
Ms. Theisen, who has dealt with other airlines in the West, and not always so successfully, believes that United's agents are well trained in the legal requirements.
Wheelchair users or their companions often find that they do not have the law's provisions at hand, as Ms. Theisen does, when talking to boarding agents. To assist them, the Eastern Paralyzed Veterans Association has just published two new pocket cards summarizing the act. These note, for example, that batteries on wheelchairs are not to be drained under any circumstances and that 48 hours' notice is required if an electric wheelchair is going to be transported on a plane with fewer than 60 seats.
A single set of the cards and an air-carrier leaflet are available free from the Eastern Paralyzed Veterans Association, 75-20 Astoria Boulevard, Jackson Heights, N.Y. 11370; (718) 779-8377.
 
Dialysis Cruise
Cruises are feasible vacations for those requiring kidney dialysis, who may otherwise be limited in their ability to go far.
A new vessel, the 513-passenger Deutschland of Peter Deilmann's EuropAmerica Cruises, has a dialysis center aboard to accommodate 12 kidney patients on a cruise.
The liner's itinerary this spring and summer ranges from the Mediterranean to the North Sea and the Baltic, to Scandinavia, across the Atlantic and through the Panama Canal to the Pacific. Many cruises on the Deutschland, which is luxurious, are 7 to 18 nights long. The least expensive 14-night cruise costs $4,040 a person, double occupancy. Dialysis is about $280 a treatment extra (at 1.93 marks to $1), which is paid at the time of treatment. Kidney patients and their doctors must provide medical records in advance to Bauer, a medical firm in Kiel, Germany, that arranges for treatments and medical personnel on board.
Peter Deilmann Ocean Cruises, 1800 Diagonal Road, Suite 170, Alexandria, Va. 22314; (800) 348-8287; on the Web: www.deilmann-cruises .com.
Dialysis Traveller-Dialysis at Sea, a Florida organization in business for 20 years, has arrangements with many cruise lines to provide on-board treatments. Steve Debroux, the president, said that he booked 600 clients a year aboard cruises. There are 100 cruises listed for the coming 15 months in the catalogue; a minimum booking is 8 dialysis passengers and a maximum is 12. The charge per treatment is $425.
The list of cruises by region appears on the Web site, www.dialysis-at-sea.com. Dialysis Traveller-Dialysis at Sea Cruises, 801 West Bay Drive, Largo, Fla., 33770; (800) 544-7604.
 
 Help on the Web
Another resource on accessible travel is found at a Web site maintained by a California couple, Candy B. Harrington and Charles Pannell, who have been gathering information on the subject for three years and who also publish a quarterly newsletter, Emerging Horizons. The site, emerginghorizons.com, recently had a detailed article on San Diego. The newsletter, which carries no advertising, prints lists of motels with roll-in showers that guarantee a reservation for an accessible room. The winter 2000 issue has a list for Las Vegas.
The main article in this issue of the newsletter talks about accessibility in Florence; it tells which entrance to the Uffizi to use, the width of the elevator door at the Palazzo Vecchio museum entrance (29 1/2 inches) and which door to get unlocked to see the Boboli Gardens. The author, Cornelia Danielson, a Florence resident, is described as founder of Barrier Free Travel/Viaggiare Senza Barriere, a nonprofit organization in Tuscany. A year's subscription to the newsletter costs $11.95 in the United States. Checks, Visa and MasterCard are accepted.
Emerging Horizons, Post Office Box 278, Ripon, Calif. 95366; (209) 599-9409.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (72%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (72%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (72%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HANDICAPPED; HOTELS AND MOTELS DISABLED PERSONS (94%); HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); HOTEL CHAINS (92%); FRANCHISING (90%); FRANCHISORS (90%); DISABLED ACCESS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (78%); LODGING (78%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); DEAFNESS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); FRANCHISEES (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



739 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 3195 words

HEADLINE: Here A Comic Genius, There A Comic Genius

BYLINE: By FRANZ LIDZ and STEVE RUSHIN; Franz Lidz, the author of "Unstrung Heroes," and Steve Rushin, the author of "Road Swing," are senior writers at Sports Illustrated.

 BODY:
HUMANKIND used to produce two or three geniuses per century. Now, it gives us a couple of dozen per month. Last November's Genius issue of Esquire showcased those men and women "transforming our civilization," including the N.B.A. point guard Allen Iverson and the brilliant Leonardo -- not Da Vinci, but DiCaprio. Today, everyone and his dog is a genius. (Literally: Barnes & Noble shoppers can buy "Caninestein: Awakening the Genius in Your Dog.") The coin of genius is now so frequently minted that it has all the value of the Botswanan pula. 
 Nowhere is this inflation more evident than in current comic cinema. "Comic genius" Jim Carrey (Time magazine) appears as "comic genius" Andy Kaufman (The New Yorker) in "Man on the Moon." Last year's "Bowfinger," starring and written by "comic genius" Steve Martin (The Washington Post) was powered by a dual-character performance by "comic genius" Eddie Murphy (USA Today). The malevolent ventriloquist played by "comic genius" Bill Murray (The New York Observer) menaced multiplexes in "Cradle Will Rock" while the malevolent scientist played by "comic genius" Mike Myers (Chicago Sun-Times) menaced his ventriloquist dummy of a sidekick in "Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me."
No C.G. has a longer C.V. than Robin Williams, the android star of "Bicentennial Man." A computer database search of his name turns up three times more published references to Williams as a comic genius than to any other actor.
When every comic actor becomes a genius, it seems, every genius becomes a comic actor: "comic genius" Albert Brooks (The Alberta Report) was born Albert Einstein.
"Genius is an overused superlative in show business," says "comic genius" Woody Allen (The New York Times) in a phone interview. "Lots of very talented comedians can make you laugh, but if you think of Mozart and Picasso and Shakespeare, it's difficult to find a comedian who rises to the level of genius. A genius is like a sudden mutation. It's not that you get very good and very, very good and suddenly you achieve genius. It's not achievable in a gradual or practiced way. Somebody's just born and hit with the magic."
In film, the number of genuine comic geniuses can be counted on one hand, or, at most, on the hand-and-a-half of Harold Lloyd, who lost several fingers to a prop explosive. Even Mr. Lloyd, whose final clock-clinging minutes of "Safety Last" (1923) are the most audaciously funny on film, does not make Mr. Allen's All-Star team: Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton, W. C. Fields, Groucho and Harpo Marx and Peter Sellers. Mr. Allen had included Mae West, but called the next day and busted her down to "an enormously gifted performer like Bob Hope and Jack Benny, but not a genius."
John Cleese can think of only one living genius of movie comedy: Woody Allen. "The main thing that makes people laugh now is shock," says Mr. Cleese, the Minister of Silly Walks, from his car phone on the Pacific Coast Highway. "The film 'There's Something About Mary' had funny stuff, but lacked the classical structure, evenness of tone and precision of comic genius. I kind of ache for that."
Mr. Allen does, too. "I don't really want to put the knock on people, but many current comedies that are considered great are not," he says. "I don't find them funny."
They're both right. There are enough "comic geniuses" panhandling for approval in theaters these days to fill the Academy of the Overrated, the purgatory Mr. Allen created for the not-great-enough in "Manhattan" (1979). A performer, after all, can be clever and resourceful without being a genius.
Steve Martin, who excels at playing exaggerated oafs, can't help that an elephant caravan of blather now attends his every artistic endeavor -- in movies, theater and belles lettres. "His humor is more Flaubert than Dreiser," the New Yorker editor David Remnick has hyperventilated about the co-star and co-writer of (cough, cough) "Three Amigos!" But Mr. Martin's humor is also more Jerk than Tramp, more rimshot than Rimbaud. He often seems uncomfortable when not doing shtick.
The same goes for Mr. Brooks, who once told an interviewer that the overwrought exhibitionists he plays are not "insecure," they're "vulnerable"; they're not "whiny," they're "pleading." "Follow your feelings" is the Brooksian mantra -- in "The Muse" his noodge did, probing deep beneath a hardened pseudo-intellectual exterior to expose a gooey pseudo-intellectual interior. There's no there behind Mr. Brooks's despair, as there is with, say, Mr. Allen or Bill Murray, whose swaggering cynicism elevated "Groundhog Day" (1993) from a one-trick "Twilight Zone" episode into a pleasing meditation on mortality and misery. Sadness clings to Mr. Murray like a monkey on a racehorse, and still he wins us over with the sincerity of his world-weary insincerity.
The insincerity of Robin Williams's cloying sincerity -- in films from "Good Morning, Vietnam" (1987) through "Patch Adams" (1998) -- has won him a worldwide audience of enablers. Even President Clinton cannot speak Mr. Williams's name without first conceding his C.G., as if he were a Supreme Court appointee, entitled to the honorific. But then Mr. Clinton, with his I-feel-your-pain sanctimony, is practically Mr. Williams's alter-ego.
The politician in Mr. Williams has won out over the manic Jonathan Winters manque of "Mork and Mindy." "Williams wants to save the world with laughter," wrote the film critic David Denby. "He has tried to free the spiritually imprisoned, loosen our tongues, loosen our bowels -- he's become a purgative of second-rate feelings, a twinkly, husky-voiced leprechaun, funneling counterculture mush through New Age mush." Mr. Williams is free to make his own career choices, but his attendance is not required at the genius ball.
Saving the world with laughter is so powerful a pretension that Mr. Williams, Jerry Lewis and Roberto Benigni have all accepted the ultimate double-dare -- finding comic expression in Nazi oppression. It worked better for Mr. Benigni ("Life Is Beautiful" won him an Oscar) than the others (for sheer chutzpah, the Polish ghetto-blaster Mr. Williams played in "Jakob the Liar" was topped only by -- there is no other phrase for it -- the concentraton camp counselor Mr. Lewis portrayed in "The Day the Clown Cried," a 1972 film so egregious and exploitative that it has never been released). The critic Andrew Sarris has argued that when Mr. Lewis became conscious of his own art -- about the time he became a genie comique in France -- his aspirations exceeded his ability.
This messianic impulse, Mr. Cleese says, is almost always "doomed to failure." (The director Frank Capra on how the silent screen comedian Harry Langdon lost his innocence and his audience: "The trouble was that high-brow critics came around to explain his art to him.") Mr. Myers is eminently aware of his art -- he can recite Da Vinci's "Seven Tenets of Genius" in Italian -- but has so far resisted the impulse to become an artiste. "When a comedian tries to do more significant things, very often he strikes out," agrees Mr. Allen, who has himself sometimes seemed lost in half-baked homages to foreign masters. "The urge to try to do more, is healthy. In comedy, the quickest way to death as an artist is to repeat a successful formula over and over. The other is a slower way to death."
MR. Allen started reaching for significance about the time of "Annie Hall" (1977). "I don't want to make funny movies any more," says the melancholy filmmaker he plays in "Stardust Memories" (1980). "They can't force me to." He became so immersed in the claustrophobic culture of New York that when he attempted an amiable confection like "Manhattan Murder Mystery" (1993), he was like a pitching ace who had lost his rhythm. It was a little painful watching him and Diane Keaton become middle-aged, acting out his favorite old movies. One Ingmar Bergman per century is enough.
All art is the same, said Samuel Beckett: an attempt to fill an empty space. Great art -- say, Beckett's tragicomedy "Waiting For Godot" -- is inherently subversive, shaking us out of our cozy assumptions, forcing upon us fresh perspectives. German funnyman Bertolt Brecht wrote: "Don't be comfortable." But art requires more than discomfiting an audience. No comedian disturbed a crowd more than Andy Kaufman, subject of the current biopic "Man on the Moon." He was less interested in amusing his fans than in abusing them, by turning the conventions of television comedy inside-out. Of course, subverting the traditions of television gag writing is hardly worth the time or energy. One might say Mr. Kaufman staged a devilish coup, elaborately plotted, to oust a third-grade class president. In doing so, he aspired to show, as Mr. Carrey told Newsweek, that comedy "doesn't even have to be funny. It can be weird or ironic." This is preposterous. "If it's not funny," says Mr. Cleese, "I don't think you can call it comedy."
No one is quite sure whether Kaufman was deliriously subversive or merely delirious. "There's a connection between neuroses and great comic talent," says Mr. Cleese. "There's also a difference between comic genius and mental illness."
The director Michael Curtiz once said: "Nobody should try to play comedy unless they have a circus going on inside." By that definition, Mr. Carrey, alone among contemporary comedians, appears possessed of the genius gene. The clinical insanity that seems to afflict him onscreen is itself a form of subversion. A high school dropout with a truly wretched childhood, he is the lone contemporary comedian with a pedigree to match the geniuses in Mr. Allen's pantheon. All six came up from poverty, had little formal schooling and sandpapered their technique in music halls. Mr. Carrey is the only working actor save Mr. Murray who can keep a sinking comedy afloat. Mr. Williams ("Mrs. Doubtfire") and Mr. Martin ("The Out-of-Towners") just punch holes in the hull.
Mr. Carrey exerts his own gravitational pull on the often ordinary films he appears in, defying moviegoers to take their eyes off him. Stanley Kubrick may as well have been speaking of Mr. Carrey when he said, "The quality that distinguishes him from other great comic actors is his ability to transform the horrifying and grotesque into unforgettable comic invention."
In fact, Kubrick was speaking of Peter Sellers, whom he directed in two of the actor's masterworks, "Dr. Strangelove" and "Lolita." His work in the latter was the most richly subversive comic performance in film history, undermining the work of two other geniuses. In the minor role of Clare Quilty, Sellers ignored the script of Vladimir Nabokov, and so seduced Kubrick that he made the movie his own. "He wasn't like you and me," Lolita says of Quilty in the penultimate scene. "He wasn't a normal person. He was a genius."
In assuming three sharply different characters -- playboy playwright, ingratiating cop, and the school psychologist Dr. Zempf riffing on "the irrationality of rationality" -- Sellers seizes the production by its ankles and shakes out all its change. No one is more unsettled than James Mason, who plays Humbert Humbert: faced with Quilty's genius, he is faced with Sellers' genius, which makes both actor and character profoundly uneasy. The audience can fairly feel his flop sweat, for the classically trained Mason spends much of the film looking terrified -- as if, at any moment, he will be ground in the gears of Sellers' diabolical mind.
Playing Chauncey Gardiner in "Being There," Sellers somehow filled the screen with his emptiness. His absence of personality made him a formidable presence. The dichotomy is difficult to deconstruct, but then so is the theory of relativity. "Sellers goes to the deep core of what's funny," says Mr. Allen. "His funniness was the funniness of genius. What he had to offer was clearly gold."
In comedy, of course, one man's gold is another's (Shecky) Greene, which makes isolating the genius gene all the more difficult. "I saw 'Broadway Danny Rose' and sat for 45 minutes waiting for the film to begin," Mr. Cleese says. "It seemed to me an extremely boring movie. Yet it's Steve Martin's favorite Woody Allen film."
Mr. Allen himself is unawed by Laurel and Hardy. "I appreciate Hardy because there's something amusing to me about his constant intolerance of and disgust with and hostility toward his partner," he says. "The other guy, scratching his head and crying, never made me smile."
WHEN Stan Laurel can be dismissed, by one who should know better, as The Other Guy Scratching His Head, what hope have Jacques Tati or Mel Brooks of ever sitting at comedy's grownup table? Mr. Brooks's gift is in mining a genre -- the western, the horror film -- for every mote of comic possibility, just as Mr. Myers's "Austin Powers" movies are a comprehensive package tour of the 60's spy caper. "Mel Brooks is an intellectual gentle giant," offers Mr. Myers. "He uses his intellect to be wonderfully and deliciously stupid."
Certainly -- or should we say, "soitainly" -- there is such a thing as lowbrow brilliance, or what's Curly Howard for? The best dipstick for gauging a comic's depth is involuntary laughter. By that standard, Mr. Myers's Austin Powers is a formidable comic creation, as was the Nutty Professor. "Jerry Lewis has the capability to be very, very funny: physically, charismatically," Mr. Allen concedes. "You see how deeply audiences have responded to him."
Even allowing for a nyuck-nyuck knucklehead like Curly, our candidates for geniushood are all white males, few of them still drawing audiences, and almost none still drawing breath. What's more, they are white American and European males, the only kind that are approved in any great number for worldwide audiences. Surely there is some unknown Cantinflas of comedy out there, the beacon of his or her talent hidden beneath a bumblebee suit on Mexican television. But we have yet to see that C.G., and quite likely never will. This reflects, more than anything, the bigotry of American movies and culture. It has nothing to do with ability, and everything to do with access and opportunity. This unhappy fact was not lost on the actress and screenwriter Mae West, whose saloon singer purrs in "She Done Him Wrong" (1933): "Men's all alike, married or single. It's their game. I just happen to be smart enough to play it their way."
Hollywood's leering overlords let West strut her stuff for only a few films before the Hays Office stepped in and made her an honest (and far less humorous) woman. "Women in general have been kept in a different cage over the years," Mr. Allen says, "and it is only comparatively recently that they've been given the freedom and social acceptance to be comedians. It's the same with blacks."
Richard Pryor -- the profane Jackie Robinson of comic cinema -- was devoured and mainstreamed by Hollywood's makeover machinery. That same machinery was implicated in the industrial accident involving Eddie Murphy, Pryor's protege, whose sharp corners were sheared off by a buzzsaw of buddy flicks.
Mr. Pryor's most memorable work was in standup; his best films are footage of his uncinematic stage act. Which raises another point. There have, undoubtedly, been comic geniuses in other performance fields. But Jonathan Winters, whom Mr. Allen anoints as the peerless genius of standup, "didn't have an ambition to be in movies," Mr. Allen says. "He just never seemed to be interested."
Television's most inspired sketch artists (Sid Caesar, Ernie Kovacs, Butthead) were often dazzling in the fierce run of five minutes, but exhausting and impersonal for much longer. Mr. Cleese claims the only "true" comic genius he ever met was Peter Cook of the satiric revue "Beyond the Fringe." "In stage monologues, Peter could saw it off by the yard," Mr. Cleese says. "To me, genius has something to do with doing it much more easily than others. Peter's problem was that it came too easily." But Cook, who died in 1995, could not transfer his genius to film, the most difficult parlor trick and, for the comic actor, the ultimate test of comic genius.
Mr. Cleese's Monty Python troupe was even more giddily sublime on film than on television. The Flying Circus performed its convention-defying loops and turns in three features, launching aerial assaults on pomposity, gentility and the odd wet fish. "The Pythons were a periodic table of the elements of comedy," says Mr. Myers. "If you distilled almost any of my comic ideas down to its molecular level, you'd be left with something from Python."
Mr. Cleese seems to have distilled his comic ideas down to sub-atomic quarks. He laments that the film "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" was "terrific for the first 40 minutes and the last 30, but soft in the middle." And he reckons structuring a movie that lasts 90 minutes is 30 times harder than plotting a five-minute sketch and 20 times harder than a half-hour sitcom. "It's difficult to be consistently funny," he says. "The great geniuses each only produced two or three movies tops that were classics."
CHAPLIN learned to make comedies when there was no one to learn from. He was comedy's Columbus, discovering new worlds that comedians will still be colonizing for as long as pratfalls are projected on screens. Today, the Little Tramp's influence runs like a shared memory through nearly every film comedic creation, from Ace Ventura to Deuce Bigalow. "I don't believe Chaplin was aware of creating a new vocabulary for film comedy," says Mr. Allen. "He just happened to be that gifted, that superb. Very few have taken that extreme leap into a realm that is undefinable and unexplainable."
The Tramp made his transcendant leap in "City Lights" (1931). "Chaplin tried to do something a little more dimensional than slap-around Mack Sennett comedy," says Mr. Allen. "City Lights was funny and also tragic. Some think it's sentimental, but to me, it's an honest film about love."
"City Lights" is an ostensibly simple tale: the Tramp courts a blind flower girl and tries to impress her by pretending he's a millionaire. At the end of the film, she finally sees the mysterious benefactor who paid for the operation to restore her sight. The flower girl watches in amusement as a newsboy pulls a rag from the tattered trousers of the Tramp, who scolds the kid, blows his nose on the rag, folds it neatly and tucks it into his vest pocket. "She recognizes who he must be by his shy, confident, shining joy as he comes silently toward her," James Agee wrote in 1949. "And he recognizes himself, for the first time, through the terrible changes in her face. The camera just exchanges a few quiet close-ups of the emotions which shift and intensify in each face. It is enough to shrivel the heart to see, and it is the greatest piece of acting and the highest moment in movies."
"City Lights" is, to be sure, a work of comic genius, but even that phrase proves inadequate. With its final close-ups, it sheds the modifier like a baby does its umbilical cord and becomes, alone among film comedies, a work of just-plain genius.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charlie Chaplin, the Tramp, courts a blind flower girl (Virginia Cherrill) in "City Lights" (1931) -- a work of comic genius. (Columbia Pictures) (pg. 26); Andy Kaufman at The Improvisation in New York in 1974: deliriously subversive or merely delirious? (Larry Morris/The New York Times); Peter Sellers as Chauncey Gardiner in "Being There" (1979). "Sellers goes to the deep core of what's funny," says Woody Allen. (United Artists) (pg. 27)
 
Drawing: (Steve Brodner) (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BOTSWANA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BOTSWANA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMEDY AND HUMOR; CULTURE; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; GENIUS ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); DOGS (76%); COINS & COINAGE (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); 

PERSON: LIDZ, FRANZ; RUSHIN, STEVE; DICAPRIO, LEONARDO; IVERSON, ALLEN LEONARDO DICAPRIO (76%); EDDIE MURPHY (54%); JIM CARREY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



740 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 15; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1977 words

HEADLINE: Film;
In a World With Less Time, Movies That Last a Millennium

BYLINE: By DAVID THOMSON; David Thomson is the author of "A Biographical Dictionary of Film." His book "In Nevada" was published last fall.

 BODY:
EARLY in the third hour of "The Green Mile" (running time 180 minutes), when I had given up on the joke that the title referred to the Tom Hanks character's vexed urinary tract, on considering how the San Francisco 49ers are going to have to rebuild and on making a list of Christmas thank-you notes (I may even have dozed, too), it came to me that a wise god (call him Jack Valenti) should institute a basic-ability test for would-be film directors.
Give them a camera, some film and a few actors, and let them redo the Howard Hawks 1940 film "His Girl Friday" (92 minutes). No one who can't bring it in under 120 minutes gets a picture. 
 This modern lengthiness isn't a trend; it's an incline. Suppose, for the sake of argument, that the nominees for best picture for 1999 are "The Green Mile," "Any Given Sunday" (160 minutes), "The Insider" (155), "The Talented Mr. Ripley" (135) and "American Beauty" (115) -- that's 745 minutes of watching. Go back to 1950, and that year's actual nominees were "Sunset Boulevard" (110), "King Solomon's Mines" (102), "Father of the Bride" (93), "Born Yesterday" (103) and "All About Eve" (138; well, like the lady warned, it was a bumpy night). Total time: 546 minutes. You could have talked to your kids that year, or had a hobby.
What makes this development so egregious is that here in 2000 we're lectured all over the place about how our attention spans have become abbreviated, how our sentences, paragraphs and thoughts are shorter and how the extraordinary burden of media stress, e-mail answerability and getting your data has given us less and less time to have children, let alone message them, and yet somehow the most up-to-date moviemakers are crazy for longer, slower establishing shots, for mood interludes and for letting Al Pacino show us all of an actor's choices instead of making him pick one (one sentence -- 100 words).
I think the "His Girl Friday" test would teach us a lot. For one thing, you'd find that many of the young actors you used (and wouldn't it be marvelous training for them?) would drag the director and the writer into lingering conversations about the Cary Grant character's motivation, the whole back story of his marriage to Rosalind Russell. And you'd get very hurt looks if you told them it was a game, a sort of play for naughty children, a version of squash in which talk was the ball and the other characters were the walls it bounced off, so trust the situation and the language and just learn to talk as fast as you can without dropping or slurring a syllable. Who knows? If you can bring it off, you might end up looking like some of the most intelligent, attractive people who ever existed. I can hear the actors grumbling: "Gee, man, that's not like life. There's no sense memory." Thank God! "Scent of a Woman" (157 minutes) was supposed to be like life?
It's not simply that actors have lost the habit of being quick or economical. At the other end of the production process, editing has given up the handling of film and the direct application of scissors or sharp blades for what I'd call Avid-gazing. The Avid is the standard system for computer editing, and it is a way of working -- some heretics allege -- that encourages moodiness, brooding, felt passages, grace intervals, small talk, luxuriant fades and dissolves. You may not notice the fattening, day by day, but before you know it your film is 25 minutes longer than you thought it was going to be. There's a sort of stagnant, perfumed loveliness just hanging about in your movie. The story takes longer, and as every old-time Hollywood expert knew, with the kinds of stories they were telling, you needed to hurry so no one in the audience had time to wonder about the holes and implausibilities.
I know how easily this might sound like middle-aged bad temper, and the old lament that they did things better, or faster, once upon a time. I am not going to dispute the necessary, glorious, earned length of some films. I don't want parts one and two of "The Godfather" any shorter. Indeed, I rejoiced in the chronological reordering of the two, done for television, that unearthed scenes never shown in theaters -- and that clocked in at 386 minutes, or nearly six and a half hours. If that were playing anywhere tonight, I'd be first in line, and give me a 75-minute intermission for a caprese salad and a nice penne puttanesca.
Nor would I dispute that some directors need not only length but also a sense of duration. Take Jacques Rivette. He works gradually; he is a master of delay, repetition and the ritual of enactment. "Celine and Julie Go Boating" (193 minutes) is one of the greatest films ever made, though I do recall a screening at which the audience was very appreciative of a brief intermission in which sustaining candies were served. I am game for "La Belle Noiseuse" (240 minutes), because you need to see the stealthy process of drawing and painting, and because Emmanuelle Beart has a body that lasts that long.
I will happily accept the principle that, historically, we hardly know how long a film is, or ought to be, or why. For 20 years, more or less, in nickelodeons and storefront theaters, audiences were cheerful with bits and pieces that never ran over 30 minutes and were often far shorter. Those lofty figures, the directors, got ambitious. In hindsight, it was said that they had evolved a "film grammar" (different shots cut together) that permitted far larger, grandiose schemes -- not so much narrative as encyclopedic. And so D. W. Griffith promoted himself and the medium with "Birth of a Nation" (159 minutes) and "Intolerance" (178).
Woodrow Wilson said that "Birth of a Nation" was "history written with lightning." Who ever knew he had such dry humor? That's not lightning; it's the glare of polar summer. Of course, those two Griffith films are helpless landmarks, and the business and the audience were persuaded by the virtues of greater length. But if you want to give students or newcomers a sense of gratitude toward Griffith, show some of his earlier shorts -- "A Corner in Wheat," "The Lonedale Operator," "The Musketeers of Pig Alley" -- where the charm, the sentiment, the picturesque and the blooming of cinematic possibilities are so much more favorably handled in 20 minutes or less.
So the picture business settled on the orthodoxy of 90 minutes -- though for years, the feature film was mixed up with the variety of comedy shorts, serials, newsreels and cartoons. (And if you still think that an important director is cheated by a mere 90 minutes, recollect that Ingmar Bergman's "Persona" is just 81.) Audiences were flexible, and they had stamina.
They did not disdain brief offerings, they were alert to flat or idle patches in films and they liked long evenings in the dark. When David O. Selznick and his chums set out in a car loaded with reels of "Gone With the Wind" one Saturday in September 1939, they were looking for a theater that would permit a sneak preview. They came to the Fox in Riverside, Calif., which was offering a double bill of "Hawaiian Nights" and "Gunga Din." Thus, the four-and-a-half-hour rough cut of "Wind" was smuggled in after "Nights." And when the applause and furor died down after its close, some patrons asked for "Gunga Din."
Was it just habit, or is there some innate justice that makes us feel that a movie -- an entertainment movie -- is worth 90 minutes, or maybe 120? Was it vision, genius and radical temperament that made Erich von Stroheim attempt the 10-hour "Greed"? Or was it a mixture of madness, vanity and gambling? "Greed" is great at two hours. Was it five times greater at 10, or just prolonged, excessive and beyond common sense?
Genius is not a reliable answer. I went to see Oliver Stone's "Any Given Sunday," and, along with a large audience, I had a merry time with its action football. But everyone in the theater instantly recognized the several padding scenes in which characters had lengthy, fatuous discussions about football as a metaphor for life. It was as if we had all dreaded such humbug and hoped that the film would be smart enough to scorn it. Even after a century of movies, we have rear ends that know when to itch.
Equally, at the close of "The Talented Mr. Ripley" (I won't spoil this with details), there is a murder more heard than seen that is delivered with such astringent economy you can easily miss it. In other words, after two hours on screen, "Ripley" is still a very fast film.
With a whole fresh century ahead of us now, and all the forecasts of enhanced home viewing at our own convenience, we have a grand opportunity to reappraise how long a film is, can be, should be, or how quick. And once we consider television as part of the climate of length, we may see how, already, we are responding to very different kinds of scale. Every half-hour "Friends" show, for instance, is one episode -- about 22 minutes each, as nicely contained as Chaplin one-reelers. Yet the years of "Friends" have amounted to an immense, cyclical movie, a mass of small stories or incidents, with only continuity and aging to contain them (see how Chandler has grown fatter) -- just like life, and maybe 75 hours by now.
That there are mysteries and beauties still in the screen's way of passing time becomes clearer every seven years as Michael Apted's astonishing series on growing up, growing older and moving toward death unfolds. He began with 7-year-olds and the vague notion that if audiences liked it, he'd come back in seven years' time and see what had happened to the kids. It has become an international institution. He is at "42 Up" now. Mr. Apted is so modest a man -- and so entirely willing to be caught up with James Bond, too, who never grows up -- that it's easy to miss his achievement, the doggedness and the rare gift he has allowed us all: of being distant or fleeting relatives to his people. So far, we have an epic of around 12 hours, or 35 years. Think what lies ahead as these ordinary souls come to face eternity. Will it be bearable, or any less difficult than escorting our real companions through the last door -- or realizing that they are standing aside, politely, for us? That moment could be great cinema -- a few seconds in time, never forgotten, like the door closing at the end of "The Searchers." But only if we have really inhabited the other 70 years or so, the life sentence. So do not be too taken aback if in this new century there are great films that become as long as us, or as short as our best moments.
 
The Extreams
 There is no doubt about how much we have denied ourselves at the movies in excluding the short film. As illustration, here are 10 great shorts to marvel over:
The Music Box, Laurel and Hardy, 32 minutes.
 Un Chien Andalou, Luis Bunuel and Salvador Dali, 24 minutes.
 Une Partie de Campagne, Jean Renoir, 40 minutes.
 La Jetee, Chris Marker, 29 minutes.
 The Ransom of Red Chief, an episode from "O. Henry's Full House," Howard Hawks, 20 minutes.
 One A.M., Charlie Chaplin, 20 minutes.
 Zero de Conduite, Jean Vigo, 47 minutes.
 The Immortal Story, Orson Welles, 58 minutes.
 Wavelength, Michael Snow, 45 minutes. (Will it never start?)
Detour, Edgar G. Ulmer, 68 minutes. (The minimal feature.)

 At the other extreme, let me propose:
 Out One: Spectre, Jacques Rivette, 270 minutes.
 The Civil War, Ken Burns, 670 minutes.
 Chelsea Girls, Andy Warhol, 195 minutes.
 Crime Story, Michael Mann, every episode, approximately 50 hours.
 Judex, Louis Feuillade, 484 minutes.
 L'Eclisse, Michelangelo Antonioni, 125 minutes.
 Every San Francisco 49er game from the Joe Montana era, approximately 600 hours.
 Wavelength, Michael Snow, 45 minutes. (Will it never end?)
The Big Sleep, Howard Hawks, 114 minutes. (Hawks at his most languid.) DAVID THOMSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The glorious length of some films -- like "The Godfather" with Marlon Brando, right, and Frank Puglia -- should not be disputed. (Paramount Pictures) (pg.25)
 
Drawing: (Phil Marden) (pg.15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: ALL ABOUT SPORTS (54%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (58%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (58%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MARRIAGE (69%); CHILDREN (68%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: TOM HANKS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



741 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 30; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7382 words

HEADLINE: The Recycled Generation

BYLINE: By Stephen S. Hall; Stephen S. Hall is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
Almost every weekday morning, usually before 10:30, an overnight delivery truck with an unusual cargo negotiates the hilly streets on the outskirts of Worcester, Mass., and comes to a halt in front of a brick-and-tinted-glass building called Biotech Three. The courier disappears into the building with one or two large gray containers and drops them off at a small company called Advanced Cell Technology. The gray cases look like toolboxes, but they are actually sophisticated shipping containers, commonly used for transporting materials used in animal-breeding work, and they contain the starting material for a series of experiments that may completely rewrite the tables of human longevity. Or they may be remembered only for being among the most ethically troubling scientific endeavors of our times.
Inside the gray cases are hundreds of cow eggs -- big, plump and beautifully rotund oocytes, as they're technically known -- each one painstakingly plucked the day before from the ovaries of cows slaughtered in Iowa. They are doused with a marinade of enzymes that prime them for imminent fertilization and then sealed in small plastic test tubes before being shipped overnight to Worcester. On the drizzly, overcast day in mid-December when I visited the laboratories at Advanced Cell, the shipment of eggs arrived a little before me. In all the time that cows have roamed the planet, their oocytes have never encountered the insults they were about to face that day. The eggs would be stripped of their DNA, deliberately fused with human cells and fooled into thinking that fertilization had occurred, in the fervent commercial hope that some sort of an embryo might result. 
 Experimenting with embryos created from two different species -- to say nothing of engaging in a form of human cloning -- is an enterprise fraught with scientific and social uncertainty; indeed, Congress forbids the National Institutes of Health to finance any research involving human embryos. So it's natural to wonder why a small, largely unknown and understaffed biotech company would risk public scorn and ethical outrage to perform such research. One possible reason is publicity, which a number of critics have been eager to suggest. But the real answer, insists Michael D. West, the dreamy-eyed 46-year-old entrepreneur who heads A.C.T., is the scientific chase for what he calls "the mother of all cells -- the embryonic stem cell."
The embryonic stem cell is an almost mythically powerful and versatile human cell, fleetingly present during the earliest days of embryonal development. This one cell has the potential -- the genetic blueprint and the biological know-how -- to become any cell, any tissue, any organ in the human body. With the proper biochemical coaxing, for example, it can turn into heart muscle, which could replace tissue damaged by a heart attack. Or into brain cells, which could be used to treat Parkinson's disease. Or into retinal cells, which could be used to restore failing vision.
Imagine, in short, a cell so protean and potent that it could theoretically generate an infinite supply of replaceable body parts -- organ and skin, sinew and bone, blood and brain -- to knit the tatters of disease, injury or old age. Imagine further that, with the use of controversial technologies like cloning, you might one day donate a snippet of your own skin, allowing scientists to harvest stem cells that theoretically would become a self-generated and limitless supply of transplant tissue -- tissue that would make a perfect immunological match with you because, after all, it is you. These ideas have not only been imagined; patents and licensing agreements are already in place.
"These are incredible cells," gushes Thomas B. Okarma of Geron Corporation, the California biotechnology company that controls many of the patents and licenses on stem cells. "I've been in biology since high school, and this is still a chilling technology when you see these things and realize what they do. The number of applications is mind-boggling." Last month, Science magazine dubbed stem-cell technology the "breakthrough of the year."
In spite of this promise, the scientific, commercial and ethical landscapes that intersect with these fascinating cells have been shaped, even turned upside down, by the right-to-life debate, because in order to obtain human embryonic stem cells by currently available technology, you must destroy a human embryo. Because of the Congressional ban on financing of this research, many scientists now find themselves in the awkward position of possibly losing their jobs if they try to use human stem cells to devise new treatments for many common diseases. "With stem cells," says Ronald McKay, a researcher at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke in Bethesda, "you tickle them and they jump through hoops for you." McKay's group published a highly regarded paper in Science last summer showing how rat embryonic-stem cells could be used to treat a version of multiple sclerosis in rats, but he doesn't dare extend the research to test the method's effectiveness in humans. "I would get fired if I did that," McKay says, fairly squirming in his seat to make this seem like the most reasonable thing in the world.
The ban on N.I.H. financing has also had the collateral effect of relegating the technology to the private sector, where embryo research can proceed unencumbered. But the fact that so much of this controversial research now occurs in the private sector means that public discussion has become constrained. And complicating this commercial landscape is the fact that two of the companies most avidly competing over the research, Geron and Advanced Cell Technology, have a tangled corporate history dating back to business opportunities created by the federal ban.
The common figure wandering through all these unsettled landscapes, popping up again and again like some white-coated Zelig is Michael West. West's insistence on pursuing controversial experiments in which cow eggs are used as cellular incubators in an attempt to create humanlike embryos comes at a particularly sensitive moment. Emboldened by a legal interpretation that seemed to show a way around the Congressional ban, the N.I.H. on Dec. 2 issued long-awaited guidelines explaining the rules by which the agency would finance human-stem-cell research. The 60-day comment period ends tomorrow, and the agency hopes to begin soliciting grant proposals from university researchers sometime this summer.
However, Representative Jay Dickey, a Republican from Arkansas who has blocked N.I.H. financing for embryo research since 1995, has already vowed to outlaw federally financed stem-cell research this spring, either through legislation or legal action. Senator Arlen Specter, meanwhile, who is entranced by the medical possibilities, has promised to introduce a bill explicitly allowing federal financing for the research.
West, whose laid-back, soft-spoken demeanor belies the soul of a headstrong provocateur, promises to be an impassioned voice in this debate, too. "I think a lot of the problem we have in trying to develop these new technologies for medicine is people's knee-jerk reaction to words like 'fetal' and 'embryo,"' he says. "You know, you use the word 'fetal' and people just go completely irrational."
Until we learn how to direct the fate of human embryonic stem cells -- learn how to tell them, for example, that we'd like them to become a new liver or glistening white bone -- their enormous promise still remains under Nature's lock and key. Many scientists believe it will take at least 10 years before we learn how to program the development of cells that could be transplanted into humans, and probably many more before we learn how to coax stem cells into creating something as grand and complex as a liver or a kidney.
But let's say some version of the science will be in practice by the year 2011, when the first of the baby boomers turn 65. And let's say the technology of stem cells will be complemented by promissory notes redeemed in related fields of gerontological science. What might the menu of spare parts look like?
The first step in creating those spare parts (which could be used not only for the aged but also for anyone in need of intervention) might well be the donation by the patient of a biopsy sample, which could be quickly cloned, thus creating an early embryo, which would produce stem cells in a week or so. Every cell and every tissue derived from those stem cells would be a perfect immunological match, which would immediately circumvent the big stumbling block of current transplant medicine: matching tissue.
At that point, it simply becomes a matter of matching the ailment to the right cell type. Researchers speak of creating nerve cells to treat spinal-cord injuries, stroke and Alzheimer's disease; glial cells for multiple sclerosis; pancreatic islet cells to treat diabetes; muscle cells for muscular dystrophy; chondrocytes for arthritis; hepatocytes for cholesterol metabolism; endothelial vessels to grow new blood vessels to replace vessels clogged by fat and plaque -- there are more than 200 different cell types in the body, and stem cells can theoretically be nudged to form each one. If these cells are souped up, as has been proposed, with an enzyme that maintains its cellular youthfulness, we're talking not only about replacement parts, but also about parts that never grow old.
What might the world of stem-cell medicine look like? For one thing, every place in the developed world might look a lot more like Florida. Although the maximum attainable human life span is now approximately 120 years, only about 65,000 Americans have currently reached the age of 100. But a century from now, with new medical technologies in place, the Census Bureau predicts there will be 5.3million people living to the age of 100 and perhaps much longer. To hear the optimists talk, there'll be much longer waits for tennis courts and tee times.
This is the kind of speculation that keeps ethicists and philosophers busy, but there are a lot of touchier issues on the immediate horizon -- creating embryos for research purposes, combining biological material from different species and performing nuclear-transfer experiments involving adult human cells (also known as cloning). All three are being pursued in a single line of research at Advanced Cell Technology.
The experiments at A.C.T. take place in a long, dark, narrow room in the middle of the lab. The lights are kept low to allow technicians to view the cells through microscopes while poking, turning and prodding them with micromanipulation devices. K.C. Cunniff, her blond hair spilling out over a white lab coat, begins by vacuuming all of the cow's genetic material from the egg cells, one after another, for more than an hour.
As I watch a magnified view of the proceedings on a television monitor, it's hard not to be impressed by the nimble piecework of the technicians. Cunniff, 26, deftly maneuvers one pipette to hold a round, plump egg cell in place. (They prefer cow eggs because they are inexpensive and easier to use than either pig or primate oocytes). She turns the egg, which had previously been stained with a fluorescing dye, as if rotating a ball in her hand, until she sees a telltale blue-green speck of DNA. Using her other hand, she nudges a sharp, hollow needle up against the surface of the egg. With a precise thrust, she enters the egg, sucks out the DNA and withdraws the needle, all in a matter of seconds. "Very quick," she says matter-of-factly. In, suction, out. Next egg. In, suction, out.
It's so matter-of-fact that you'd never guess this type of experiment was the focus of wildly fearful predictions only a few years ago. In 1997, when scientists at the Roslin Institute in Scotland announced the cloning of Dolly the sheep, there was a lot of fevered speculation about the possibility of cloning human beings. It was generally dismissed as both a distant and undesirable proposition, but the sudden appeal of embryonic stem cells has provided a surprisingly urgent medical justification for moving the technology of human cloning closer to reality.
In the case of A.C.T.'s experiments, the cow egg is being tested as a way to "reprogram," or reset, the adult DNA back to a pristine state resembling the moment of fertilization. In these experiments, the egg comes from a cow but the adult DNA comes from human donors; it's the human DNA, West believes, that orchestrates subsequent embryonic development. The technical term for this type of experiment is "nuclear transfer," but West prefers a more transparent phrase -- human therapeutic cloning." That modifier "therapeutic" signals that A.C.T. is not in the business of making babies, just embryos to get stem cells. And they're not alone in pursuing the nuclear-transfer approach. Last May, to remarkably little public comment, Geron acquired Roslin Bio-Med, the Scottish company in charge of commercializing the research that produced Dolly.
As Cunniff moves another cow egg into position, Nancy Sawyer gazes at the TV monitor and makes a sound like "Unk!" as the needle punctures the egg. "That's so cool," she whispers of the image. Seen on the monitor, the image has a primal iconic beauty, like a dim grainy photograph of a distant planet. On each moonlike oocyte, one isolated lunar mare glows with an eerie greenish blue, betraying the location of genetic material that will soon be suctioned away.
At a nearby microscope, Sawyer, 24, performs the next step. Human skin cells, known as fibroblasts, have been provided by an anonymous donor. The human cells dot the screen like so many lumpy, transparent potatoes, much smaller than the egg cells. Sawyer loads them into a hollow needle, immobilizes a cow egg with suction and, with gentle pressure, inserts the needle tip just under the rind of the egg. With a squeeze of her hand, a single human skin cell, with its unique payload of human DNA, plops into the egg of a creature that moos. Sawyer even manages to maneuver her needle tip to literally tuck the hole closed.
After stuffing every cow egg with its little spud of human DNA, Sawyer prepares the next step. She gives the cells a zap of 120 volts. The jolt of electricity effectively fuses man and beast into a single biological fate. After one final step, this . . . this thing will believe it has been fertilized and, if all goes well, begin cleaving, or dividing, in the bubbling, momentous arithmetic of life lifting off the pad: 2 cells, 4 cells, 8 cells, 16 cells, 32 cells -- blastocyst!
The odds are extremely long that any of the 100 or so cell fusions will result in a blastocyst, the hollow ball of cells that appear about a week after fertilization and, in a normal embryo, are destined to become the placenta. But if that ball of cells should form, a separate group of cells known as the inner cell mass assembles against one inside wall of the blastocyst, like bats huddling on the ceiling of a cave, and this is where the embryonic stem cells will appear. These stem cells exist only briefly before they begin to differentiate into more specialized tissues -- there one moment and gone the next, transients vanishing into the great biology of becoming. "If I'm lucky," says Jose Cibelli, vice president of research at A.C.T., "I'll get one blastocyst. That's how low the efficiency is." And getting the blastocyst is just the first hurdle -- can they isolate the stem cells and keep them alive in a test tube? And will they truly act like human embryonic stem cells?
Before leaving Worcester that day, I ask Cibelli when he will know if any blastocysts have formed from the experiment I've observed. He says he wouldn't expect to see anything before 9 or 10 days. I do the math in my head and make a mental note to get in touch either on December 24 or Christmas Day.
In many ways Michael West is the shadow impresario of the field. As founder of Geron Corporation, one of this decade's most closely watched biotechnology companies, and now as president and C.E.O. of Advanced Cell Technology, West has achieved remarkable success as a kind of merchant of immortality, selling the idea that stem cells and related technologies might someday completely revise the tables of average human life span. And he is so convinced that the promise of stem cells justifies a controversial strategy like cow-human nuclear transfer that he is happy to foster, if not force, a national discussion of this technology.
In a recent issue of the journal Nature Medicine, for example, West, Cibelli and their colleague Robert Lanza argued the case for human therapeutic cloning because stem-cell research is so promising. "Does a blastocyst," they wrote, "warrant the same rights and reverence as that accorded a living soul -- a parent, a child or a partner -- who might die because we failed to move the moral line?" And that is what Mike West is trying to do at this touchy juncture of the stem-cell wars -- with this company, in these experiments, in an ethical debate that has seemed too arcane and complicated to attract much public attention to date. He is putting his shoulder to the moral line that forbids embryo research and is trying to force some sort of social reckoning. The degree to which he and others succeed or fail may well determine if stem cells have a chance to live up to their promise as medicine or remain too hot to handle in the current political climate.
Stem cells burst into public consciousness little more than a year ago. In November 1998, James Thomson of the University of Wisconsin reported the creation of human embryonic stem (or E.S.) cell lines. Using leftover frozen embryos from in-vitro fertilization clinics in Wisconsin and Israel, Thomson and colleagues isolated stem cells and have shown that they can be maintained indefinitely in the lab -- can be grown, frozen and then thawed, and still retain their power to develop into, say, heart-muscle cells or brain cells. Michael Shamblott and John Gearhart, at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, headed a separate effort to cultivate something called "embryonic germline" (E.G.) cells, which are harvested from a tiny speck of fetal tissue from an aborted fetus and then grown in the lab. Because of the Congressional ban on federal financing for human-embryo experimentation, both teams conducted the research with financing from Geron.
There are many technical hurdles to overcome. But the sheer power of the approach makes it clear that, if properly harnessed, stem cells could serve as a warehouse of spare human parts. This teasing hint of immortality is the cultural subtext that runs beneath the public fascination with the science, and no one has done more to promote that connection than West. The son of a truck mechanic, West is a onetime creationist and a self-styled truth seeker, and his entrepreneurial interest in the biology of aging derives from an obsessive, almost morbid fascination with death. "All I think about, all day long, every day, is human mortality and our own aging," he says.
The first time I visited Advanced Cell Technology, West showed up two hours late for our appointment, apologized with sheepish charm for his tardiness and began to spin out the kind of polished futurism he regularly conveys to scientists, investors and lay people. "I thought I'd show you some pictures," he said, and then proceeded to project slides on a screen in the company's conference room, delivering a lecture on the biology of aging to an audience of one. With his gently soothing Midwestern voice and relentlessly upbeat brand of biological positivism, he manages to make science sound almost like a cult. Former colleagues concede that he does not possess a crisp management style (punctuality, for example, being a continuing challenge), but even his critics admit he has a knack for looking beyond the horizon and dreaming deep. He'll talk for hours about saving endangered species through cloning, or the possibility of cloning pets, or why it makes more economic and ethical sense to pay $1 for a cow egg than $2,000 to surgically obtain a single human egg. "He's a very visionary guy," says James Thomson, a University of Wisconsin biologist, "but he's also a very good salesman."
Even as a high-school student growing up in Niles, Mich., West was fascinated with aging and rejuvenation. He immersed himself in religion and philosophy. He learned Hebrew and Greek, he says, to read ancient texts in the original. He went on to study psychology at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, obtained a Masters of Science degree at Andrews University, a Seventh-day Adventist school, and even studied creationism for a time in San Diego, he says, before convincing himself of the truth of Darwinian evolution. Following the death of his father in 1980, West worked in the family's truck-leasing business and then belatedly embarked on a career in science. He received his Ph.D. in cell biology from the Baylor College of Medicine in 1989 and started medical school at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas.
That same year, West showed up unannounced and began to hang out at the University of Texas lab of Woodring Wright and Jerry Shay, who were researching the molecular biology of aging. Four years earlier, scientists had discovered a critically important enzyme called telomerase, which acts on telomeres, the little caps of DNA at the end of chromosomes; telomeres ordinarily grow shorter each time a cell divides, until the cells stop dividing altogether. It turned out that a handful of human cells -- germ cells, cancer cells and embryonic stem cells -- use telomerase to circumvent that shortening process, and thus also circumvent the aging process and achieve a cellular version of immortality.
As West learned more about telomeres, he eventually came to view the enzyme telomerase as a molecular version of the fountain of youth; it looked as if it might bestow immortality on normal cells and, conversely, could have the beneficial effect of pulling the plug on immortality in cancer cells if blocked. While still technically enrolled in medical school, West moved out to California and banged on doors in search of seed money for a biotech startup. Thus, in November 1990, he founded a company dedicated to the molecular causes of aging. He named it Geron -- Greek for "old person." He eventually captured the interest of the most prestigious venture-capital firm on the West Coast, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, which along with other firms invested $7.6 million in Geron in 1992.
For a company that has lost tens of millions of dollars and is in no danger of curing aging anytime soon, Geron has managed to cast a spell on investors, the media and the lay public. In both technical articles and news releases, it has retailed a scientific vision (and vocabulary) that clearly push the right zeitgeist buttons. West and Geron spoke tirelessly of "immortalizing enzymes" and the "life extension" of cells; Geron is almost universally recognized as an "anti-aging" company. And in 1997, after winning a highly competitive race to clone (and patent) the human gene for telomerase, Geron actually had a real molecule around which to develop clinical products. The company currently has a number of promising directions for telomerase-based products, including potential anticancer applications, but the mythology is so firmly established that even though company officials insist Geron is no longer an "anti-aging company," this is still how it is inevitably portrayed.
From the very beginning, however, West had another big idea he wanted to pursue. "You need replaceable cells and tissues for the problems of aging as well," he said. "And it seemed to me that the ideal source for an aging population is to go back to the beginning of life." To the embryo, that is, and stem cells. And so, as early as 1992, he paid a visit to Roger Pedersen, a professor of obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive sciences at the University of California at San Francisco, and a leading expert on embryonic stem cells in mice. They both agreed that the time had arrived to explore the vast potential of such embryonic stem cells in human medicine, and West inquired into whether Pedersen would accept financing from Geron to do research on human stem cells.
Pedersen flatly refused: "This area of investigation is something that is at the headwaters, and it's not appropriate for private investors to control the headwaters of a stream of research."
Several years later, however, Pedersen got back in touch with West. Circumstances had changed, he said, and he was ready to deal.
The circumstances were political. In 1975, federal regulations stipulated that any government support for in-vitro-fertilization research required the approval of a federal ethics advisory board. After a short and turbulent history, this board was disbanded in 1980 without a single research project having received government funds. One cynical stratagem of the Reagan and Bush administrations, according to Pedersen, was to block all attempts to reconstitute the panel, effectively thwarting such research throughout the 1980's.
Under the new Clinton administration, Congress did away with the phantom federal ethics review and set up a special N.I.H. committee to establish guidelines for human-embryo research. Everything seemed back on track when, early in 1995, Jay Dickey, the Republican congressman from Arkansas, successfully inserted a rider into the budget bill for the Department of Health and Human Services (which includes the N.I.H.) banning federal funds for human embryo research. Just as right-to-life politics had forced in-vitro fertilization and reproductive biology into the private sector, where lack of oversight and regulation has led to a series of well-documented scandals, stem-cell research seemed headed for similar privatization.
Those were the circumstances that had changed Roger Pedersen's mind. Geron reached an agreement with the University of California to finance Pedersen's work on embryonic stem cells. During his discussions with West, Pedersen mentioned that a scientist at the University of Wisconsin, James Thomson, was about to publish a paper announcing another breakthrough: the isolation of embryonic stem cells from rhesus monkeys. West was in Wisconsin the next day, and Geron signed up Thomson too.
"I would have been much happier with public support," Thomson admits. "But given the constraints, I welcomed the funding I got." Getting access to stem cells from a primate, an animal biologically close to humans, West realized, promised tremendous intellectual-property dividends. "We could just learn how to work with them, and file patents," he said. "But we'd have this head start on the whole world." When West later learned that another university researcher, John Gearhart at Johns Hopkins, had made significant progress isolating cells very similar to embryonic stem cells, he headed straight for Baltimore. "He just showed up on my doorstep one day," Gearhart recalled with a laugh.
With Pedersen acting as talent scout, West chased down and signed up three of the leading stem-cell researchers in the world. Geron began to assemble a staggering intellectual-property portfolio in a field with almost limitless medical potential. And because the Congressional right-to-life advocates had effectively tied the N.I.H.'s hands in terms of financing, there wasn't any competing research in university labs. The investment paid off spectacularly in November 1998, when both Thomson and Gearhart announced they had isolated human stem cells. The universities where the work was done retained the patents on the research, but Geron received exclusive rights to many applications.
Unfortunately, Mike West enjoyed this moment of triumph only vicariously, because by then he had left the company, unhappily. In 1997, according to several sources, Geron planned to spin off its entire stem-cell program into a separate company, which would include West, when the plan, in the words of a scientific board member of the company, "got clobbered by the company leadership." Thomas Okarma, who joined Geron in December 1997 and is now president, offers a different interpretation. "I was hired explicitly to run that program because it really wasn't moving," he said. In any event, the stem-cell research stayed at Geron, and West says he increasingly felt he could do more outside the confines of the company than inside.
The fact that West's current company, Advanced Cell Technology, is now competing against the company he founded may go a long way toward explaining why Mike West is so determined to find an alternative way of obtaining human stem cells, one that doesn't rely on existing human embryos in clinics or fetal material from abortions -- the methods that Wisconsin and Johns Hopkins licensed to Geron. And it certainly explains why he perked up when, a few months after leaving Geron, he learned of an unusual experiment by Jose Cibelli, an Argentinian scientist working at Advanced Cell Technology. The good news was that Cibelli had tried to isolate human stem cells using a method that seemed to offer an alternative to Geron's approach. The bad news was that the strategy involved human cloning. And cows. "And I knew," West says, "that was going to be a problem."
In the summer of 1996, Cibelli was a graduate student at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, working in the laboratory of James Robl, a respected developmental biologist. Cibelli had the radical idea of fusing some of his own cells with cow egg cells, in effect cloning himself -- not to make a copy, of course, but as a way to get human stem cells. Interestingly, this wasn't the first time Robl had been confronted with such an idea. Several years earlier, a student in the lab, unbeknown to Robl, had fused human cells with the egg cells of a rabbit, and the cells had begun to divide. This time, Robl went to university officials and received institutional approval to proceed.
During July and August, Cibelli rinsed out some of the cells that lined the inside of his cheeks and tried fusing them with cow egg cells. "One day, Jose was about to go on vacation, and he was about to throw out the dish," Robl recalls. "I don't generally look at these things, but I did that day. And there was a blastocyst." In other words, the embryolike thing had moved beyond mere cell division and graduated to the stage where embryonic stem cells begin to form. As is routine when the experiment reaches this stage, Cibelli placed the fragile blastocyst on a bed of fetal mouse cells, which nourished its further development. "We watched it for about two more weeks," Robl says. "It looked, to my eye, not like a cow blastocyst. The morphology of the cells was different."
Cibelli and Robl did not publicly discuss the experiment at the time, nor did they prepare a scientific report for peer review. "We never considered a publication," Robl explains, "because there was not nearly sufficient data." But the University of Massachusetts did consider the experiment sufficiently novel to file a patent application. The United States patent was issued, virtually unnoticed, last August.
Cibelli recounted this remarkable story to West in the spring of 1998, when West happened to be visiting A.C.T. "I was just flabbergasted," West recalls. "I mean, he showed me human embryos that had been made by cloning. And I had no idea -- no one in the world had any idea -- that it had been done. I thought, 'Oh my gosh, this is exactly what I want to be doing for the next 10 or 20 years of my life."' More to the point, it was exactly the kind of technology that would allow him to get back into the stem-cell game.
West officially joined A.C.T. in October 1998 and immediately presided over an episode that was, for him, uncharacteristic -- a major public-relations fiasco. As soon as West joined the company, Cibelli lobbied to resume his cloning experiments. West agreed, but wanted to disclose details of the 1996 experiment and gauge public reaction to the technology before starting it up again. "I didn't want to be accused of doing this in secret," he says. So he invited a film crew from the CBS newsmagazine "48 Hours" to film the work in progress.
Then, one week before the scheduled broadcast, on Nov. 6, West got blindsided by his previous life. Geron announced Thomson and Gearhart's successes isolating stem cells. "I had no idea it was coming," West admitted. It wasn't just that the research made front-page headlines and drove Geron stock up 74 percent in one day. By the time CBS broadcast the show on Nov. 12, along with a news account of the experiments that appeared in that morning's New York Times, West's professed desire for openness looked like something entirely different: a bid to leverage "me too" publicity for his otherwise unknown company.
For an experiment that never received formal peer review, Cibelli's cow-human nuclear-transfer work got plenty of unofficial feedback, beginning with the White House. Clinton called it "deeply troubling." Thomas Murray, president of the Hastings Center and a leading bioethicist, wondered "if the timing of the announcement had to do with scientific competition, personal competition or positioning for funding from investors." Roger Pedersen was quoted as saying, "I smell a sham." (He claims he wasn't told who performed the experiment when he was asked to comment upon it.) Thomson regarded the whole affair as "unfortunate." Right-to-life pickets showed up outside Biotech Three in Worcester, marching around in cow masks.
Two days after news of the cow-human experiments broke, President Clinton asked his National Bioethics Advisory Commission to prepare a report on stem-cell research in general. The commission hastily convened hearings in January 1999 in Washington. And who should turn up, uninvited, to make an unscheduled presentation before the panel but Michael West.
'I read an editorial by an individual who wrote that science should stop so that ethics can catch up," West told the national commission that day. His ambition, he said, was "to communicate to people in public policy and in biomedical ethics, so that, simply, ethics can walk hand in hand with science." Ethics and modern biology, however, have rarely walked hand in hand, and stem-cell research has added new difficulties to the relationship.
Over the past year, two high-powered advisory committees have, with one significant difference, endorsed the general idea of embryonic-stem-cell research. A committee established by the American Association for the Advancement of Science recommended last August that researchers be able to receive public funds for experiments on embryonic stem cells, but only using cell lines already created by researchers in the private sector. The National Bioethics Advisory Commission, by contrast, recommended last September that researchers financed by the N.I.H. should be allowed to create stem cells using human embryos already in existence (thousands of such embryos, frozen and destined to be discarded, exist at in-vitro fertilization clinics).
But no oversight or guidelines exist for private industry, and in February 1999, well before either committee delivered its opinion, Advanced Cell Technology quietly decided to resume its cow-human nuclear-transfer experiments. It seemed like an important decision for such socially sensitive research, so I asked West if it was something that went to the board or an ethics advisory panel for approval. West said it was strictly his decision. And there's the paradox. Now that abortion politics has forced so much of the research into the private sector, the transparency of the ethical conversation about it has become more obscured.
Everyone, including Mike West, insists on an open national debate about stem-cell research. But I began to notice that whenever I asked one question too many about exactly what work was being done, or even contemplated, the conversations became elliptical and vague. I was having lunch with West one day, for example, when I asked if the use of human donor eggs for cloning experiments was under consideration. Cibelli had told me he thought such a development was very likely. "I have to confer on this issue," West replied apologetically, leaning over to huddle with A.C.T.'s public-relations adviser. Then, after a pause but without directly answering the question, he expressed concern that such a program could exploit women.
For all their good intentions, ethicists may have allowed themselves to be placed in a difficult, possibly untenable position. At Geron, for instance, the company's ethics advisory board seems to have the ear of management. But, says Karen Lebacqz, who heads the Geron ethics advisory board, "they are perfectly at liberty to ignore all our advice." Further, as Lebacqz points out, she is not free to discuss certain aspects of the research. "Early last summer, they brought us a piece of research that they were going to fund. Several members of the board raised objections, so they decided not to pursue that particular line of research." What was the research under discussion? "I'm sorry, I really can't," she said.
The ethicists have become proxies for all of us, precisely because so much of this technology, for political reasons, is unfolding in the private sector. Yet they have limited power. West, for example, told me that when Geron first considered establishing an ethics board, the company determined that giving such a board the right to veto research projects would undermine its fiduciary responsibilities to shareholders. The ethicists have what West calls "the power of the pen," but what they can report back to us is constrained.
Their mere participation in the process, however, creates the appearance of oversight and ethical responsibility, and that is precisely what bothers David Cox, vice chairman of the genetics department at Stanford University and a member of the national bioethics commission. Cox says ethics advisory boards at biotech companies are "a joke": "They're supposedly doing ethical review, but the process by which they're working is backwards."
It's very hard to have a national debate on issues as socially and ethically important as cloning and the creation of embryonic stem cells when every conversation may ultimately bump up against corporate confidentiality. The problem of openness is compounded by the editorial policy at a number of leading scientific journals, which refuse to publish research if the results have previously been disclosed in public. That almost guarantees that breakthroughs in a controversial and competitive field of research like stem cells will land in the public's lap as scientific faits accomplis, just as Dolly did.
And it leaves us in the same scientifically uncertain and ethically queasy place we were more than a year ago. At that time, Thomas Murray of the national bioethics commission asked West if he thought the cow-human experiments resulted in human embryos that were potentially "viable" -- in other words, embryos that, if implanted in a woman, could result in a live human being. West didn't answer, and A.C.T. still isn't answering. I asked Jose Cibelli, for example, if the A.C.T. scientists had made any progress overcoming the problem of biological incompatibility between a cow egg and a human cell, an issue involving small cellular organs called mitochondria; it is an obstacle repeatedly raised by the many scientists who remain skeptical about the approach and are dubious that a blastocyst would be created, especially since A.C.T. still hasn't published a sprig of data on it in more than a year.
"We think," Cibelli began to say, "but this is very preliminary. . . . " He shrugged and smiled. "You can say that we've had good progress," he continued with a little laugh. "We've had good progress, and we expect to have something to report in the near future. But I guess I need to be protective of the data for publication's sake."
Michael West sounded a similar theme when I told him how many complaints I'd heard about A.C.T's unpublished experiments. "We could publish now, the data we have," West assured me, well aware of the exasperation of the research community. "But," he continued, "we're trying to generate a real killer paper here. We're going to do a paper we're proud of."
On Christmas Eve, I sent an e-mail to Jose Cibelli, asking about the status of the cells I'd seen fused. The day after Christmas he wrote back to report that the nuclear-transfer units had "developed at the 'predictable' rate," while declining to specify exactly what that was. As soon as new techniques were in place, he continued, Advanced Cell Technology would report the results in a peer-reviewed journal.
As congress prepares to debate the merits of stem-cell research in the coming months, we will undoubtedly hear rosy visions of the future of medicine with stem cells (as well as the contorted political logic that suggests that research on human embryos and cross-species nuclear-transfer experiments are permissible in the private sector, but morally indefensible in the public sector). But it's also worth thinking through the implications of immortalizing medicines, which I had the opportunity to do with Leonard Hayflick, the elder statesman (and elder contrarian) of the field.
Hayflick, now 71, is a well-known cell biologist; his discovery in 1961 that normal human cells grown in a test tube simply stop dividing after a specific number of cell divisions, known as the Hayflick limit, in effect introduced the notion of mortality into the biology of aging. We arranged to meet at the Union Club in Manhattan in early December, when Hayflick showed up to harangue fellow board members of the American Federation for Aging Research about their financing priorities.
Hayflick doubts we'll ever have a quick fix to arrest aging anytime soon, but he has lots of reasons to think it would be a very bad idea. Like a number of bioethicists, he believes the first line of division is economic. Access to the regenerative medicine of stem-cell and immortalizing enzymes is most likely to be a phenomenon available only to affluent segments of the population in the developed world.
In his book "How and Why We Age" and other writings, Hayflick has even gone to the trouble of imagining "bizarre situations" that might unfold if scientists were ultimately able to create a medication that would, from the moment treatment began, essentially freeze the process of aging at a certain point. He has imagined "children becoming biologically older than their parents" if a parent chose to stop aging at age 45, for example, while a child did nothing. How would you even know, he asks, the right age to stop at?
Karen Lebacqz has also pondered this distant future. "If we are successful with the use of stem cells or in the reprogramming of cells," she says, "it will mean that people are no longer dying of the things we are dying of today. What do we do with all of ourselves if we don't die?" We'll squander even more of the world's resources, she continues, and put even more pressure on the developing world.
But perhaps the ultimate argument against the implicit promise of immortality has to do with a simple biological fact: if we were to rejuvenate our brains, Hayflick argues, we might lose the most precious thing we have: our sense of self. "Given the possibility that we could replace all our parts, including our brain, then you lose your self-identity, your self-recognition. You lose who you are! You are who you are because of your memory."
There is a lot of scientific research and a lot of heated political debate to come before we arrive at any of those distant quandaries. And how we resolve the ethical conversations we're in the midst of having over stem cells will have a lot to say about whether we'll have a chance of reaching that future at all.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (On the cover and page 30 -- Stylist: Joseph Oppedisano. Prop Stylist: Anne Dixon. Hair and makeup: Carmel Bianco. Woman's tank by Ted Baker, Shorts by DKNY and shoes and bag by Dolce & Gabbana. Man's suit and boots by Tommy Hilfiger. Scooters provided by John's Minibike Shop, New York. page 30 -- Driver: Dress by John Bartlett. Scarf by Roberto Cavalli. Necklace by Pilar Olaverri. Sunglasses from Blinde. Man in back of car (left): suit and shirt by Tommy Hilfiger. Man in back of car (right): suit by DKNY. Shirt by Tommy Hilfiger. Hat by Dolce & Gabbana. Man on skateboard: Tank top and shorts by Polo Jeans. Sneakers by Nike. Skateboard from Blades Board and Skate.); Impresario of immortality: Michael West, president and C.E.O. of Advanced Cell Technology. (Dana Smith/Black Star, for The New York Times); Clone ranger: As a graduate student, A.C.T.'s Jose Cibelli fused his own cells with cow egg cells. (Dana Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: WORCESTER, MA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: ADVANCED CELL TECHNOLOGY INC; GERON CORP ADVANCED CELL TECHNOLOGY INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADVANCED CELL TECHNOLOGY INC; GERON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: LONGEVITY; FETAL TISSUE; STEM CELLS; TRANSPLANTS; ETHICS; ABORTION BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); MAMMALS (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (89%); ETHICS (89%); BIOETHICS (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (88%); CLONING (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (77%); DNA (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); BIOCHEMISTRY (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); HUMAN CLONING (74%); ENZYMES (72%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (72%); BRAIN (69%); ABORTION (63%); HEART DISEASE (60%); 

PERSON: HALL, STEPHEN S; WEST, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



742 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 18; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 1-30-00: The Economics of Collectibles;
Bidders Beware

BYLINE: By Hope Reeves 

 BODY:

Fallen Idols
There is, naturally, an enormous price gap between the stuff of legends -- the Beatles, Elvis, etc. -- and that of the merely popular. But the markets are most volatile in the case of artists who once seemed destined for permanent superstardom, then lost their way. Such an artist is the Artist (formerly known as Prince). The cloud guitar Prince played on the "Lovesexy" tour was auctioned in 1993 by Christie's of London for about 10,000 pounds. A similar model sold last fall for just 2,100 pounds. Giles Moon, Sotheby's rock memorabilia expert, blames the star's reclusiveness, as well as his recent lack of hit records. Scandals can put a dent in prices, too. Those black fedoras that Michael Jackson used to sign and then toss into the crowd at his concerts once reliably fetched $1,000. Now they can be had for less than $500.
 
Pulp Fiction
If Ebay has created booming new markets for all sorts of junk -- bathing caps, antique poison bottles, old-maid card sets -- it has also shown the power to destroy them. Consider the case of first-edition volumes of contemporary mass-market novels by authors like Stephen King, John Grisham and Anne Rice. Pre-Ebay, a 1980 copy of King's "Firestarter" might have sold at a local shop for $75. But once those prices were posted online, countless pleasantly surprised readers hauled their own copies out of dusty boxes and put them up for sale, thereby flooding the market. Now a first-edition "Firestarter" fetches a measly $30. Dealers hold out hope that prices will begin to climb again once the excess volume is absorbed into collections.
 
Fancy Furnishings
The Asian economic boom sent prices soaring on a wide variety of luxury antiques. The more ornate, the better: favored styles included elaborate French Cameo glass, produced at the turn of the century, and Art Nouveau furniture (described by the Aspen-based dealer Carl Heck as "swirly whirly"). But as the economy went, so went the market for the favored collectibles. Fashion swung hard in the opposite direction, too, favoring minimalism over heavily decorative styles. So in 1990, a mold-blown elephant vase by emile Galle sold for $170,000; in a recent auction, a piece from the same mold sold for just $50,000. Greg Kuharic, vice president of Sotheby's for 20th-century decorative arts, calls these pieces "some of the most inventive and innovative designs of the last 100 years" and says that interior designers -- and their deep-pocketed clients -- are sure to rediscover a taste for them eventually.
 
Pro-War Posters
Last year, an original "King Kong" movie poster fetched $225,000 at auction, sending yet another collectibles market up into the clouds. But so far, the boom has been limited to movie posters. United States wartime propaganda remains particularly cheap. Examples from World War I show mostly romantic illustrations of life in America; by World War II, the posters referred to the war explicitly and bore catchy advertising slogans. Some strike slightly ominous tones, like the anti-espionage messages "Loose Lips Sink Ships" and "Don't Be Guilty of Blabotage." Many of these posters can be had for as little as $50 each.
 
Really Old Cars
The market for vintage Mustangs and GTO's has accelerated, but not old-style automobiles. In the 50's and 60's, restored Ford Model T's sold for about $12,000. Today, they've slipped to about $7,000. Even the once-beloved '59 Chevy Bel Air, the kind with the big fins, hasn't been selling well lately. "People collect nostalgia," explains Harry Rinker, an expert on collectibles. "Today's guy wants the car he used to ride in with his dad, not some classic he can't remember." Hope Reeves
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Bette Bookstore, Bangor, Me.; Miscellaneous Man, New Freedom, Pa.; Neal Preston/Corbis; Sotheby's; Corbis/Bettmann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (55%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (55%); 

CITY: BANGOR, ME, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); MAINE, USA (55%); BANGOR, ME, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS; AUCTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); WRITERS (67%); INTERIOR DECORATING (62%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (62%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: REEVES, HOPE STEPHEN KING (71%); JOHN GRISHAM (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



743 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
After a Decade's Drought, 2 Major New Hotels

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
SITE work has begun on the first two major hotel complexes to be built in Connecticut since the Foxwoods Resort Casino opened in Ledyard in 1992.
In Groton, about 10 miles southwest of Foxwoods, a $38 million Mystic Marriott Hotel and Spa will be developed by the Waterford Hotel Group of Waterford. And at the Mohegan Sun Casino in Uncasville, about 10 miles northwest of the Mystic Marriott site, there will be a hotel/conference center and an expansion of gaming facilities at a total cost of $800 million. 
 The project is being co-developed by the Waterford Hotel Group and the Mohegan tribe. In 1996, the Waterford group was hired by the Mohegans to build and manage their 700,000 square-foot casino.
Construction of the six-story Mystic Marriott will begin in May just off Exit 88 of Interstate 95, on a 14-acre parcel overlooking the quiet waters and wooded islands of the Poheganut Reservoir. It will have 285 guest rooms, parking for 300 cars and a 22,500 square-foot conference center with an indoor pool, 120-seat restaurant, two ballrooms, catering and audio-visual services, fitness center, saunas and shops. It is scheduled to open in the spring of 2001.
In addition, a 104,000-square-foot office building has been approved by the Town of Groton for the same site and will be built as soon as leases for half the space are signed.
The Mohegan Sun's expansion will include a 1,200-room hotel, a 100,000 square-foot conference center, 125,000 square feet of retail space, 100,000 additional square feet of gaming space, a 10,000-square-foot sports arena and a 2,500-car garage. The project will be completed in stages from 2001 through April of 2002.
The inclusion of generous conference space in both projects is significant because there is so little of it in the region. Tourist groups, wedding and Christmas parties and business meetings drawn to the area for its many attractions frequently compete for the same accommodations.
The area's attractions include Mystic Seaport, Mystic Marinelife Aquarium, the Navy Submarine Base in Groton, the Coast Guard Academy, Connecticut College's Arboretum and Lyman Allen Art Museum in New London, the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford and of course, the casinos.
"Conferencing," said Mark Oefinger, Groton's director of planning and zoning, "is what's driving this construction. We don't have enough conference space. Groups of more than 500 people have to be shoehorned in."
LOCAL companies couldn't agree more. Neil Ruenzel, spokesman for the Electric Boat Company unit of the General Dynamics Corporation in Groton, said conferences sometimes had to be scaled down to suit the space. "With the exception of Foxwoods we are very limited," he said. "Having a property of the size that Waterford is putting in, with close proximity to I-95, is very attractive."
Robert DeSalvio, senior vice president of marketing at Foxwoods, where a 55,000-square-foot conference center and a 1,400-room hotel are thriving, said that the market was "extremely strong for meetings, trade shows and conventions," adding that Connecticut was "underserved with one of the smallest amounts of conference space in the country."
Pfizer Inc., the giant drug manufacturer that is one of the area's strongest economic engines, is expanding globally. Its 2.94 million square-foot research and development headquarters in Groton includes a 500,000 square-foot laboratory currently under construction, and the company recently completed a 740,000 square-foot office building in New London.
"There are over 100 professional disciplines at work," said Kate Robins, a company spokeswoman. "There will be more meetings, more people coming in. Efficiency is important -- there should be minimal travel between dinner, a room to hear a keynote address and other conference functions."
How companies choose a conference center may depend on the image they wish to project. "There is some resistance to having business conferences at casinos," said Mr. Oefinger, the Groton planning and zoning director. "Business people will visit them, but they don't want to do business there."
Mitchell Etess, executive vice president of marketing for Mohegan Sun, said that some groups "will shy away from meeting at a gaming facility, but it's by no means the majority."
"We are aggressively pursuing this business," he added.
The Waterford Hotel Group expects to capture that trade in a strictly business environment at the Mystic Marriott, and to draw on regional conferences that now go to Worcester and Springfield, Mass.
Magdy Youssef, general manager of the Radisson Hotel in New London, one of the few area hotels not owned by the Waterford Hotel Group, expects the new Marriott to affect his business. He has 120 rooms and can handle a conference of up to 500 people. "It will keep me on my toes, competing for conferences of this size on price," he said. Marriott room rates will vary from $125 to $300 a night, comparable to those at Foxwoods, but more than the $69 to $250 at other hotels.
"When we complete the Marriott we will own and manage 1,000 rooms in this region, most of which we have built," said Len Wolman, 45, president and chief executive of the Waterford Hotel Group.
The rooms include those in the Days Inn, Comfort Inn, Marriott Residence Inn, Whitehall Mansion, Holiday Inn, New London Lodgings, Marriott Spring Hill Suites, Marriott Courtyard and Rosemont Suites, located variously in Mystic, New London, Waterford and Norwich.
Mr. Wolman and his brother, Mark, president of Wolman Construction, a division of the Waterford Hotel Group, honed their hotel skills by running the family's resort, the Rocks in Delmas, in their homeland of South Africa. Len Wolman also worked for the Southern Sun Hotels in South Africa.
They came to the United States in 1976 and held executive positions with Westin Hotels, Four Seasons, and Holiday Inns before starting out on their own in 1984 as managers of a Days Inn in Mystic.
Since joining the Waterford Hotel Group in 1986, they acquired and, in most instances, built 23 hotels in Connecticut and seven other states. Five are Ramada franchises, three are Holiday Inn franchises and the Mystic Marriott is their eighth Marriott franchise.
The Marriott site was assembled from several parcels owned by various individuals including Paul Klotz, Mark Wolman's father-in-law and head of Downes-Patterson, a holding company that has owned a 150-acre tract adjacent to the Marriott parcel for more than a decade.
Known as Mystic Executive Park, it contains just two 10-year-old occupied office buildings of 10,000 and 55,000 square feet because there was little demand for space. But now that the region is experiencing a resurgence, the park will eventually be marketed for office buildings. The Waterford Group and Downes-Patterson are currently working out a partnership agreement.
The Marriott franchise will be owned by Mystic Hotel Investors L.L.C., comprised of the Wolmans, Stephan F. Slavik Sr., a Michigan developer; Del Lauria, a financial executive associated with various real estate and hotel groups, and Glenn Jette, a hotel franchiser with Holiday Inn, Ramada and Marriott.
Construction financing for the Marriott hotel was provided by People's Bank in Norwich, and permanent financing is by General Motors Acceptance Corporation Mortgage's Hospitality Division.
The Town of Groton welcomed the project with tax abatements. During its first year of operation the hotel will pay the same amount it pays on the land during construction, between $15,000 and $20,000. In the second year it will pay 20 percent of the assessed value, then 40 percent in the third year, 80 percent in the fourth year and 100 percent thereafter.
Over the last decade Wolman Construction has built more than 50 custom homes in Lyme, Stonington, Waterford and New London ranging in size from 3,000 to 10,000 square feet at a cost of $125 to $225 a square foot, and four more are currently under construction. Mark Wolman described them as "mostly second homes for people in the financial services industry in New York."
"They come up almost every weekend," he said, "most have their boats, and they play golf at a private club in Stonington or one of several public courses."
As recently as a decade ago, southeastern Connecticut was struggling to cope with deep cuts in the defense industries. Today it is, as one Groton official put it, "rockin' and rollin'."
According to Simon Flynn, director of the Connecticut Lodging Association in Glastonbury, "hotel occupancy rates in southeastern Connecticut are at 76 percent, stronger than the 65 percent in southwestern Connecticut."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of the 285-room Mystic Marriott Hotel and Spa, which will have a 22,500-square-foot conference center. It is
to open in the spring of 2001. (Brennan Beer Gorman Architects)
 
Map of Connecticut.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (92%); GD (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (91%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (60%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOHEGAN SUN CASINO; MYSTIC MARRIOTT HOTEL AND SPA (GROTON, CONN); MOHEGAN SUN CASINO MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); FOXWOODS RESORT CASINO (91%); WATERFORD GROUP LLC (84%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (60%); MOHEGAN TRIBAL GAMING AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOHEGAN SUN CASINO; MYSTIC MARRIOTT HOTEL AND SPA (GROTON, CONN); MOHEGAN SUN CASINO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNCASVILLE (CONN); GROTON (CONN); UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); CASINOS (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); GAMING (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ZONING (77%); TELECONFERENCING (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (66%); RETAIL PROPERTY (66%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (65%); OFFICE PROPERTY (65%); NAVAL VESSELS (65%); THEATER (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); HARBORS & PORTS (60%); APPROVALS (50%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



744 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 3; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Patchogue Puts the River Back in Its Future

BYLINE: By REGINA MARCAZZO 

DATELINE: PATCHOGUE

 BODY:
DIVISION STREET in Patchogue Village is pretty nondescript. A Long Island Rail Road maintenance yard sits on the north side of the street just east of the train station. Across the street are the Patchogue 40 Lanes Bowling Center and several other smaller establishments. There's little hint that the street intersects a broad river emptying into Great South Bay.
The Patchogue River is dotted with homes, boatyards, industrial properties and restaurants. But the center of village life moved north to Main Street long ago, and Patchogue has largely turned its back on the waterway that was the sole reason for the first white settlement of the area in the 18th century. All that could change if a comprehensive plan to revitalize the riverfront gets the approval of the village board and the cooperation of other local, state and federal agencies. 
 The Patchogue River Maritime Center Plan, unveiled to the public last week, ranges from dredging the river to building a Fire Island National Seashore visitors center and a possible marine museum.
"This is probably the most serious piece of planning work that's been done in this community in the last 100 years," said Mayor Stephen E. Keegan. "This community came out of the Patchogue River. We decided we wanted to go back to our beginnings."
The study area involves 216.7 acres of land along 4.3 miles of riverfront. It is the result of eight meetings of the Patchogue Riverfront Advisory Committee, business and recreational surveys and extensive planning work carried out by Suffolk County through funding from New York State.
"I consider this a 10-year plan for the village," said David M. Kennedy, a village trustee and chairman of the Patchogue Riverfront Advisory Committee. "It's going to take a lot of partnerships with government agencies. We're going to need a lot of help."
But he added: "People always look for waterfront communities. We have a great waterfront."
By taking advantage of the underutilized Patchogue River, supporters of the plan hope to attract thousands of transients who head out to Fire Island during summer weekends to spend more time in the village. In 1999, 65,000 people took the ferry from Patchogue to the hamlet of Davis Park on Fire Island, and an additional 15,000 rode the ferry to the Watch Hill Visitor Center, part of the National Seashore.
The plan could be a major boost to revitalization efforts, which have have been underway in Patchogue for several years. "There's a huge change," said Douglas Steigerwald, president of the Greater Patchogue Chamber of Commerce. "The vacancy rate is way down and activity is up. It's just the beginning."
The village has received an infusion of new business, including a New York State Workers Compensation Board office, a Brookhaven Memorial Hospital finance and dialysis center and the Patchogue Theater, a playhouse. Ground was broken last summer for a new Swezey's department store, and Suffolk County Off-Track Betting is scheduled to move its headquarters to Patchogue this year.
"We've rebuilt this community in the last four years," Mr. Keegan said. "Now it's time to do some of the window-dressing-type work."
But Jacqueline Kurrass, a co-owner of the Patchogue 40 Lanes Bowling Center, which would be razed to build the proposed marine museum, said that the plan would put her out of business and leave year-round residents with one less thing to do.
"I want to look at what we provide for the community 52 weeks a year," she said. "We want a three-month-a-year recreational corridor that will attract a bunch of strangers. My facility provides an outlet for the teenagers and young adults that no one wants to see on the streets."
Constantine Dillon, superintendent of the Fire Island National Seashore, said that it has been the National Park Service plan to build a combination visitor center, ferry terminal and headquarters since 1978. The building would be on property near the corner of Division Street and West Avenue, near the railroad station and at the head of navigation on the river. "We have all the plans done. All we need is funding," Mr. Dillon said, citing a figure of $3.5 million.
"Having our visitors center and headquarters there would be a great economic benefit to the Village of Patchogue," Mr. Dillon said, anticipating that between 75,000 and 100,000 would visit annually. "We'll insure we have winter activities."
Further opposition has come from a group of residents of Sunset Lane, a street fronting the Great South Bay on the west bank of the river. The residents say they support Patchogue River revitalization, but oppose a boat ramp planned for the end of River Avenue right next to their quiet residential street, they don't want a fence that blocks entrance to their backyard beaches removed, and they don't want a public park in their neighborhood. Easing of a documented flooding problem on the street is also on their agenda and they want assurances that dredged sand and silt will not be dumped on their beach or nearby.
The dredging of the Patchogue River is a major part of the plan but a decision by the Army Corps of Engineers and the village for the disposal of dredge spoil has not been made. An estimated 70,000 and 80,000 cubic yards of material will be dredged from the river, according to the mayor.
Cleaning up a 6.7-acre parcel owned by Amerada Hess Corporation and transforming it into a recreational site such as a hotel resort complex is another plan recommendation.
Brian Weeks, whose family has owned the Frank M. Weeks Yacht Yard on the west side of the river, near the Hess site, for over a century, said that the Hess property has great potential. But one of the plan's many loose ends is that no potential developer has been identified.
The village also has plans for sprucing up the Long Island Rail Road station just west of the river with $900,000 in state funds, but the maritime center recommendation to improve the appearance of the L.I.R.R. track maintenance yard located just across from the plan gateway on Division Street has not been addressed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An aerial view of the Patchogue River. If the village has its way, it will be the site of a revitalized riverfront boasting a visitors center and museum. (Eagle Eye Photo)
 
Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK -- Refurbishing the Patchogue Riverfront"
The Patchogue River Maritime Center Plan would refocus dvelopment efforts on the village's original center, with the goal of attracting business and tourist dollars. Here is a look at two of the recommended measures in this plan. (Source: Suffolk County Planning Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (58%); PATCHOGUE RIVER MARITIME CENTER (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PATCHOGUE RIVER MARITIME CENTER (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PATCHOGUE RIVER (NY); FIRE ISLAND NATIONAL SEASHORE (NY); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RIVERS; LAND USE POLICIES TRAINS (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); RIVERS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); BEACHES (88%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); BOWLING CENTERS (72%); BOWLING (72%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); APPROVALS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); HOSPITALS (60%); DIALYSIS CENTERS (60%); DIALYSIS (50%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (50%); 

PERSON: MARCAZZO, REGINA CONSTANTINE DILLON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



745 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: In White Plains, Malls to Shop Till You Drop

BYLINE: By DEBRA WEST 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
WHEN the newest mall in town, The Westchester, opened here five years ago with its sumptuous boutiques and well-tailored department stores, shoppers predicted that it would put the existing downtown mall, the Galleria, out of business.
But that was in the naive days before the Dow Jones passed 10,000, when it was widely believed that there were some limits to consumption. 
 Now not only are both shopping centers reporting healthy success but city officials have also given preliminary approval to a plan for a third mall, which would sit between the other two. The White Plains Town Center, as the proposed development is called, will be a mix of entertainment and retailing. It is to have a 21-screen Loew's-Sony movie theater and 273,000 square feet of retail and restaurant space, which the developers say would attract five million people a year. It will be built on the site of the old Macy's on Main Street and Mamaroneck Avenue, one block east of the 880,000-square-foot Galleria and two blocks west of The Westchester, a 829,000-square-foot mall.
Once again, skeptics are wondering how much shopping one city can sustain.
"Right now the economy is good, and Americans continue to be in love with shopping," said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Trend Report in Upper Montclair, N.J. "But a lot of people are scratching their heads and asking what happens if the economy turns. There is already so much over storing, over malling. Currently, we are dealing with overkill."
For their part, the developers, Tishman Speyer Properties of Manhattan, say they are not worried. Their $125 million project, they say, is completely different from the city's two existing malls. The movies that will be the main attraction will be on the second floor while each of the proposed dozen stores will be on the ground or underground floor, each with its own street-level entrance, said Steven M. Wise, a senior project director with Tishman Speyer.
"It's not a mall," Mr. Wise said. "It's a street-related development. We are very happy to be something they are not. We are very happy to be a retail entertainment complex. I don't see them as competition at all."
Tishman Speyer bought the Macy's building in May 1998. Its initial plan has been scaled back. The amount of retail space has been reduced, and a plan for 450 rental apartments has been eliminated.
White Plains is a city of 50,000 that swells to 225,000 people, or potential shoppers, during the day. City officials say they hope this development will spark a renewed interest in the once thriving downtown, where empty storefronts are common.
"This is truly a downtown revitalization," said Mayor Joseph M. Delfino. "Every one of the stores will have entrances off the street. We did not want to have another indoor mall where people go in and don't come out." On Jan. 14 the White Plains Common Council agreed verbally to accept the Town Center plans. The Common Council members saw a promise of $2 million a year in revenue from sales tax from a site where an empty department store now stands. While the official Common Council vote necessary to approve the project has not yet been scheduled, Mayor Delfino said construction was expected to start this summer and last 18 to 24 months.
But Bill King, the lone councilman to vote against the plan, is not so sure that the project will bring life to the streets. A Target store is expected to be part of the development, he said, and big stores like Target are generally considered one-stop shopping destinations. But the developer would not confirm that Target would be part of the complex. In addition, the developer envisions two walkways, one under Conroy Drive and the other over it, which will connect a four-and-a-half-floor parking garage to the Town Center.
"I think most people will be very content to drive in and drive out," said Mr. King, who began serving on the Common Council in January. "They will shop at Target, go to the movies, eat at the restaurants in the Town Center and that will be their urban experience."
Mr. King also has reservations about the cost of the incentives the city is to give Tishman Speyer, saying it would be too much of a taxpayer burden. The plan calls for a tax break of about $700,000 a year for 17 years and also obligates the city to pay $13 million toward a $35 million parking garage on the site of an existing garage on Martine Avenue. The rest of the garage's cost will be financed by bonds sold by the Westchester Industrial Development Agency and repaid through parking fees. In the end, the city would own the garage.
"I'm questioning why they would subsidize one store and possibly have another store that's paying full property tax go out of business," Mr. King said. "I'm not worried about The Westchester. A Target is not going to take away customers from The Westchester. I'm concerned about J. C. Penney's in the Galleria and Sears on Main Street. They seem to be the most analogous to a Target."
Concerns about the survival of the Galleria were also expressed when The Westchester was proposed. But now, five years later, both shopping centers have survived by carving out niches. While the Galleria and The Westchester are only a few blocks apart, they offer completely different shopping experiences.
"Competition is healthy," Robert T. Guerra, mall manager of The Westchester, said. The Westchester is the right mall in the right place at the right time, he said. Its anchor stores of Neiman-Marcus (with its lavish women's clothing) and Nordstrom's (where a tuxedoed pianist plays Gershwin while shoppers choose from a vast selection of shoes) draw customers from Westchester, Connecticut and New York City. The Westchester's shoppers spend more and stay longer than visitors to most malls, Mr. Guerra said. The Westchester averages $550 a square foot in annual sales, compared with a national average of $275 a square foot, Mr. Guerra said, and shoppers stay two hours a trip, compared with a national mall average of 45 minutes.
Drawn in by home furnishing stores -- there is a two-story Crate & Barrel, a showcase Pottery Barn and that nostalgia fest, Restoration Hardware -- and several stylish children's clothing shops, The Westchester's typical shopper is a marketer's dream: a 30-something mother with a household income of $100,000 a year, Mr. Guerra said.
But it takes more than good merchandise to lure shoppers to a mall.
One recent cold day, Dr. Lori Smith, 29, a pediatrician from Darien, ventured out on her first big outing with her infant twins, Tyler and Amanda.
Her destination: The Westchester. She and her sister, Lisa Storch, 26, could have gone to the Stamford Town Center, which is closer to home, but they chose The Westchester for an unusal reason: its bathrooms.
"We knew that both here and Neiman-Marcus had nice ladies' lounges, where we could relax and rest and take care of the babies," Dr. Smith said, as she reclined on one of the many couches in Nordstrom's peaceful restroom.
Deborah Tobia, 32, of Pleasantville is past the infant stage. While her two older daughters are in school, she often brings 2-year-old Leah to The Westchester to meet friends.
"A lot of us moms who don't want to run around outside in the winter will meet here for lunch instead," Ms. Tobia said. "It's great for the kids. There's a lot of room for them to just go."
If The Westchester offers elite shopping, the Galleria is more of a populist's mall. Built in 1980, the Galleria's anchor stores are Macy's and J. C. Penney. There are 140 shops, including Old Navy, a Yankees Clubhouse store, Sam Goody and several smaller nonchain stores.
"Both malls have niches that they found, and both are very successful in the markets that they serve," said Winnette B. Peltz, general manager for the Galleria. "I don't think The Westchester has hurt the Galleria. We have a broad appeal to very diverse customers."
Paula E. Kelliher, marketing director for the Galleria, speculated that the Town Center would not detract from the Galleria's sales.
"If anything, it's going to bring more traffic into this area," she said. "'m looking forward to it, and I'm sure our merchants are looking forward to it. If people go to Target and they don't find what they want, maybe they will come over to us."
The Galleria's Food Court is crowded at lunchtime with workers from county offices, the courts andthe large corporations that are in the metal and glass skyscrapers nearby.
"We come here for lunch everyday," said Bob Cioffi, 55, a manager with Bell Atlantic. "If you come here at noon it's one environment. Then if you come here after 3, it's invaded by kids."
Joe Sandarciero, 16, of Port Chester, who had gathered outside the Gap with a group of friends, said: "We're mall rats. This mall is more down to earth than The Westchester. Plus, there are more girls."
Vladimir Mena, 17, of White Plains, works at a gift shop in the Galleria. Even when he is not working, though, he often shops or eats at the Galleria. He rarely finds a reason to go to The Westchester.
"The atmosphere at the Westchester is, If you are a minor, they follow you everywhere you go," he said. "They don't make it welcoming for kids. People look at you like you don't belong. The Galleria has more stores that have more in common with us. We can afford it."
But groups of teenagers sometimes bring trouble. On Jan. 3, a 19-year-old man from the Bronx who had spent the day at the Galleria with friends, shot and killed a 17-year-old schoolmate, Oshan Litchmore, in a vestibule between the mall and its garage. The shot also injured an 8-year-old boy who was walking by with his mother. Rayon McIntosh has been charged with second-degree murder in the killing. The shooting occurred after one group of teenagers exchanged angry looks and words with another and were heading outside to fight, the police said. Mr. McIntosh told the police that he did not mean to shoot Mr. Litchmore. The police would not say who the intended victim was.
The killing has not helped the Galleria's image, and only time will tell if shoppers see it as an isolated incident or a reason to stay away.
"We were very shocked and saddened by it," Ms. Peltz said of the episode. "We are always evaluating our security. But be it a shopping mall, an office building, a school building, no one is immune to this these days."
Violence aside, the greater threat to the Galleria, which now has 13 million customers a year (compared with The Westchester's 10 million), is the proposed White Plains Town Center, Mr. Barnard, the retail analyst, said.
"In the end, it's usually the older malls that suffer from competition," Mr. Barnard said. "They reinvent themselves in some way or they suffer."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shelley Arora, 15 months old, strolling while her parents window shopped nearby. Valet parking at The Westchester, below. A bus pulling in from the Bronx at the Galleria, bottom left, and shoppers there. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times, above, and Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Dion Edwards of the Bronx, holding son, Jared, at Galleria Food Court with his wife, Joan, and daughter, Chelsea. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); Shoppers with baby strollers are a common sight at The Westchester. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 
Map of White Plains, N.Y. highlighting area malls. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); WESTCHESTER INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (77%); WHITE PLAINS TOWN CENTER (69%); TOWN CENTER (64%); COMMON COUNCIL (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES WESTCHESTER INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (77%); WHITE PLAINS TOWN CENTER (69%); TOWN CENTER (64%); COMMON COUNCIL (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE PLAINS (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (93%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); MAYORS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); TRENDS (70%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: WEST, DEBRA

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



746 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 8; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
Inside 'Big Box' Project: Threats to 'Little Boxes'

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

DATELINE: ENGLEWOOD

 BODY:
Hank's Hardware is one of those quintessentially American places.
Behind the big glass windows of its storefront on West Palisade Avenue here, 1,200 square feet of hammers and pails, duct tape and touch-up paint, sandpaper and snow shovels recede down the narrow isles and up pegboard-covered walls. It is all the more American that the owner of Hank's -- Hank Jung -- is from South Korea. 
 Hank's is a place where people can set a spell, but it is also a business, competing in the ever-tightening hardware marketplace, and Mr. Jung is worried that his tiny store will be swept away by an orange tide known as Home Depot.
The Atlanta-based chain of home-improvement centers wants to build a 116,000-square-foot "big-box store" -- 100 times the size of Hank's -- on a site now occupied by an auto-parts distributor along Route 4, near Van Brunt Street, in a mostly industrial corner of the city.
An application by Home Depot is pending before the Englewood Planning Board, but Mr. Jung, 43, of Cresskill, may worry a bit less now. On Jan. 18, before a crowd of hundreds of residents opposed to the store, the City Council introduced an amendment to the local zoning ordinance that would bar retail stores from the proposed site, which is in a redevelopment zone.
The ordinance, introduced by a 3-1 vote, is scheduled for a public hearing by the council on Tuesday. Because the ordinance involves a zoning issue, the planning board must comment on it before the council can vote on its adoption. The board's next meeting is Feb. 29; officials said the board would address the ordinance then.
City officials said the ordinance would block Home Depot's plans if it is adopted before the planning board takes final action on the application. The planning board had scheduled a hearing for last Tuesday but it was adjourned at Home Depot's request. Thomas O'Connor, Home Depot's lawyer, declined to comment on the reason.
If the board does address the ordinance next month, the council could adopt it before Home Depot has a chance to return to the planning board, thus rendering the application moot.
Yellow fliers printed by opponents of the plan, who call themselves Concerned Citizens of Englewood, have circulated around the city. "Traffic in Englewood will become insufferable," the flier reads. "The safety of Second Ward residents who walk to their place of worship will be jeopardized," a reference to a community of Orthodox Jews who live near the site.
In response, Home Depot placed a full-page ad in The Record of Hackensack on Tuesday, trumpeting benefits of the store, which would employ 200 full-time and 50 part-time workers, and provide $500,000 a year in local, county and school taxes. The ad also criticized "misinformation" about the company being spread by "a group of citizens."
John Simley, a Northeast regional spokesman for Home Depot, dismissed the opponents' assertions. The reason this site was selected, he said, was to draw traffic from heavily traveled Route 4. Signs would direct traffic along Grand Avenue and Route 93, he said, away from Palisade Avenue, Englewood's heavily congested main street, about a mile away.
The city council has ordered its own traffic study to determine whether the opponents' concerns are legitimate, said Douglas Bern, the council president.
Home Depot, founded in 1978, has opened 38 stores in New Jersey since the late 1980's; more are on the way.
The Englewood store would be open from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., but closed on Sunday. It would also have a 16,000-square-foot garden center.
"It wouldn't be what I would call a high-traffic store," Mr. Simley said. "It would be a little busier than usual. It will also be open a little bit later than usual."
Mr. Bern the council president, said thatthe council was concerned with the economic well-being of smaller related businesses, which usually cannot match the low prices and wide variety offered by big-box stores.
But Mr. Simley said Home Depot's marketing studies indicated that its stores actually help to recapture some related spending by shoppers outside each store's market. That in turn, he added, is good for smaller stores that develop niches for products or services not offered by Home Depot.
Hank Jung is not so sure. Behind his cramped counter among several loyal customers one chilly Saturday, Mr. Jung said he was far from confident that the council could block the chain. (Indeed, Mr. Simley said Home Depot planned to protect its interests, though he stopped short of threatening a lawsuit.)
Mr. Jung said his chances of selling his store were already nil because of all the talk. And, he said, he will surely be driven out of business if Home Depot moves in.
"I believe I can't do anything about it, because my prices are higher," Mr. Jung said.
James E. Williams, a retired city employee who now lives in Tenafly, stopped into Hank's for a light bulb and stayed for half an hour. "You don't need to put the man out of business," Mr. Williams said. "I was born in Englewood in 1928. I'm 71 years old, I've seen a lot of changes."
But not everyone opposes Home Depot.
Inez Giraldo, 63, of Englewood, who was behind the counter at La Columba restaurant a few doors up from Hank's, said other Home Depot stores were not close enough to be convenient. "Secaucus es muy lejos -- it's very far," said Ms. Giraldo, whose son owns the restaurant.
Councilman Jeffery Drakeford, who represents the Second Ward, where many residents are black or Latino, was the sole vote against eliminating retail operations from the redevelopment zone, because of the jobs and tax revenues such stores provide, Mr. Bern, the council president, said.
The city's Democratic mayor, Paul Fader, who sits on the planning board, has abstained from any action by the board and from taking a public position on Home Depot in order to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest. Mr. Fader, a lawyer, represents TCW, the owner of a shopping center in Holmdel, in a suit against the center's builder and architect. The center is managed by a subsidiary of Trammell Crow, a Dallas-based real estate company that has expressed interest in building an office tower on the site sought by Home Depot.
Mr. Fader said he was referred to TCW by another lawyer, Joseph Ferriero, who is chairman of the Bergen County Democratic Committee. Mr. Ferriero inititially represented the Englewood Chamber of Commerce, which is headed by a former mayor, Donald Aronson, in a lawsuit against the planning board to block Home Depot's application. Another lawyer, Michael Goodman, replaced Mr. Ferriero earlier this month.
Mr. Goodman said the suit accused the board of inconsistent zoning, after the board recommended to the city council last fall that retail stores be permitted in the area and the council agreed.
Following the council vote in November, Home Depot submitted its application. But the council moved to reverse its own approval of retail uses by introducing the ordinance on Jan. 18. The council reversed itself because hundreds of residents opposed the Home Depot application, Mr. Bern said.
Mr. Bern said Mr. Fader's and Mr. Ferriero's connections to Trammell Crow, a potential rival of Home Depot to develop the site, had nothing to do with the council's reversal. Mr. Simley, the Home Depot spokesman, said he did not believe the mayor or county chairman tried to exert any influence, official or otherwise, on the council.
In moving to block Home Depot and to conduct a traffic study of the area, Mr. Bern said, "The council was anxious to cool things down, get maximum input, and come back with a quality decision."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Home Depot hopes to build a store in Englewood off Route 4, above, that would be 100 times larger than the hardware store nearby owned by Hank Jung, and he is worried. (Jeff Zelevansky, above, and Don Standing for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (86%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC HOME DEPOT INC (86%); ENGLEWOOD PLANNING BOARD (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOME DEPOT INC ENGLEWOOD PLANNING BOARD (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLEWOOD (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HARDWARE RETAILERS (92%); HOME CENTERS (90%); ORDINANCES (89%); ZONING (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); CITIES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: JUNG, HANK; STRUNSKY, STEVE HANK JUNG (93%); JOHN SIMLEY (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



747 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 7; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: ON THE WATERFRONT;
Don't Dump on Me

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: EATONTOWN

 BODY:
Whether the subject is the ownership of Ellis Island or the constitutionality of the commuter tax, the border wars between New York and New Jersey are always lively and vituperative affairs.
That much was in evidence at a hearing last week at Fort Monmouth, where lurking beneath the scientific debates and cost-benefit analysis surrounding the dumping of harbor dredge material in the ocean off Sandy Hook was the perennial and parochial battle over which state was abusing and shortchanging the other under a four-year-old agreement brokered by Vice President Al Gore. 
 Environmentalists, together with local government officials and residents of shore communities, complained loudly to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey about the potential for contamination to the ocean from dumping the soupy, dredged mud from two port terminals in New York City.
But the loudest applause from opponents to the plan came when Representative Frank Pallone, a Democrat from Long Branch, and a spokesman for Senator Robert Torricelli -- with fists raised and clenched -- thundered from the lectern that New Jersey would no longer be the dumping ground for New York's waste. Mr. Pallone said that he and other New Jersey congressmen were prepared to introduce legislation to prohibit the dumping of any dredge material at the site in international waters off the New Jersey coast.
Clearly, the notion that businesses in New York Harbor were benefiting from the proximity of a New Jersey disposal resource was galling to residents from Sandy Hook to Tinton Falls. Worse yet, in the view of Cynthia Zipf, the executive director of the Highlands-based Clean Ocean Action, was that the ocean disposal seemed necessary partly because New York had yet to establish a land-based disposal site of its own for its most contaminated dredge materials, as required by the agreement.
By contrast, New Jersey environmental agencies have spent $49 million to establish such an upland disposal resource in the "brownfields" or old industrial areas around Newark Bay for its most toxic of dredge mud.
"While New Jersey is doing the right things, New York is not, and the federal agencies are enabling New York to continue their sloth-like pace toward progress," said Ms. Zipf, her comments punctuated by cheers from her supporters and jeers from hundreds of longshoremen who showed up by the busload.
The longshoremen contend that dredging opponents are threatening port jobs throughout the region.
Nonetheless, Ms. Zipf continued, "What is needed is a clear message to New York that they must develop alternatives before things get worse."
Lillian C. Borrone, the director of port commerce for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said that although the specter of New York dumping on New Jersey was an aggravating factor, it was essentially a "red herring."
Ms. Borrone maintained that the material being dredged from the Brooklyn Marine Terminal near Red Hook and the Castle Astoria fuel depot in northern Queens was not toxic and met the strict standards set by the dredging agreement for ocean dumping.
"If you are trying to scare people to death, you use the boogie man of New York dumping on New Jersey," she said, speculating that the goal of opponents in mischaracterizing the material was to break the agreement and stop all dumping in the ocean. "It is a specious argument and it places us in an unpredictable situation when it comes to our plans to keep the port competitive with other deep-water ports along the east coast."
Indeed, a spokeswoman for the New York Department of Environmental Conservation, which is working on New York's land-based disposal, was even more dismissive of the notion of one state dumping on the other.
"This is silly partisan politics from people who don't know the facts," the spokeswoman, Jennifer Post, said in a telephone interview. "There is no safety issue here because the material is safe."
Seth Kaye, executive vice president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, stared out at opponents from the lectern and called them "misguided activists using scare tactics and misleading data."
The shouting match aside, New York officials insist that they are working hard to develop land-based disposal alternatives, but insist they do not have as many large brownfields areas close to the ports and accessible by barge as New Jersey. Ms. Post said that in the meantime, the state is spending $20 million on programs to reduce the volume of future contaminants that may find their way into port channels and ship berths.
Other officials familiar with the problems of upland disposal of dredge spoils said that criticism of the dumping coming from New Jerseyans -- whether scientifically justified or not -- was likely to make it more difficult to find a New York site willing to take it.
But even New Jersey officials and others who sided with the dredging supporters said that New York has not lived up to its part of the agreement.
For his part, Vice President Gore, in a letter to opponents of the dredging earlier this month, defended the agreement that bears his name and urged them to it to continue. But at the same time he noted that New Jersey "had demonstrated leadership" in the search of land-based disposal alternatives and expressed hope that "New York will emulate that example".
Ms. Borrone of the Port Authority, speaking at last week's hearings, also noted that "New York has not been as successful as New Jersey" in coming up with alternatives.
Representative Robert Menendez, a Democrat from Union City who supports the dredging and was an architect of the 1996 Agreement, called New York's performance "pathetic.
"This isn't a New York vs. New Jersey issue," Mr. Menendez said. "It is a standards issue that will affect both New York and New Jersey, and New Jersey has just been more agressive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a hearing about dumping harbor dredge material off Sandy Hook, Representative Frank Pallone proclaimed that New Jersey would no longer be a dumping ground. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey highlighting the approximate site of the Mud Dump.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 2832 UNITED STATES LIFE-SAVING SERVICE HERITAGE ACT (92%); 106 H.R. 950 BEACHES ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT, CLOSURE, AND HEALTH ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (58%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (58%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (58%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (58%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; ATLANTIC OCEAN; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; DREDGES AND DREDGING; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ARMIES (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); BROWNFIELD SITES (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); 

PERSON: PALLONE, FRANK JR (REPR); SMOTHERS, RONALD FRANK PALLONE JR (90%); BARNEY FRANK (85%); AL GORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



748 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: On Politics;
The Whitmans Get Around. By the Way, Here's the Tab.

BYLINE: By David Kocieniewski; David Kocieniewski reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
As New Jersey residents dig out from last week's snowstorm, they can rest assured that thanks to their tax dollars, Governor Whitman is also battling the snow and cold this weekend. All week she let people know she would be high in the Alps, in the glorious resort town of Davos, Switzerland.
The occasion is the 30th annual World Economic Forum, the planet's most exclusive networking session, where chief executives, government officials and professional Deep Thinkers are spending six days grappling with the ominous task of promoting "responsible globality." 
 President Clinton is one of 33 heads of state scheduled to attend. The invitees include a bevy of high-octane corporate executives like Bill Gates of Microsoft; Steve Case of America Online; Jack Greenberg of McDonald's; the media baron Rupert Murdoch, and the chairman of Ford Motor Company, William Clay Ford. Secretary General Kofi Anan of the United Nations and an assortment of dignitaries, intellectuals and Nobel laureates will also take part.
Among this lofty group will be exactly one governor, Mrs. Whitman, accompanied by her husband and her commissioner of economic development, Gualberto Medina.
The governor's singular status at the Davos retreat, and the fact that the Forum has also been dubbed the most expensive junket in the world, has made some New Jerseyeans question what, if anything, the state's beleaguered taxpayers are getting in return for their investment.
New Jersey is paying $3,709 in air fare for the governor and her husband, John (they will receive complimentary accommodations). The state will also pay $3,000 for Mr. Medina's air fare and expenses.
The governor's spokesman, Pete McDonough, said the conference was a profitable venture for the state because it served notice that New Jersey was a serious player.
By meeting face-to-face with corporate and government leaders, Mr. McDonough assured, the Whitmans and Mr. Medina could sell the world on the virtues of doing business and creating jobs in New Jersey. He said that most governors did not attend because an invitation to Davos was an honor bestowed only upon the select few who made foreign trade a priority.
"She has meetings with world leaders and C.E.O.'s of the largest companies of the world," Mr. McDonough said. "Dealing at that level, with those kinds of executives, always pays off."
But Democrats said the governor's justification for a publicly financed jaunt to Europe was flimsy at best. And at the very least, they argued that Mr. Whitman, a venture capitalist who would get to spend six days exchanging business cards with Titans of the corporate world, should put his air fare on his company's tab.
"It's certainly legitimate to try to expand New Jersey's business sector, but you don't have to fly the governor and her husband to Switzerland on a junket to do it," said John S. Wisniewski, a Democrat from Middlesex County. "There are so many things we can't afford to do in this state, health care, hospitals, education. We're increasing tolls on the turnpike. It's wasteful for us to spend state money for the governor to go to a resort."
The governor's critics received powerful ammunition last year, when Mrs. Whitman squeezed in a few hours on the fabled Alpine ski slopes and broke her leg. The headlines about the accident, and the recreational aspects of the governor's trip, led to unflattering suggestions that taxpayers were footing the bill for the Whitmans to huddle at some cushy ski lodge, gorging themselves on fondue and fine chocolate with statesmen and chief executives.
Mrs. Whitman's defense of the trip isn't helped by the fact that some other governors don't seem to think that the business-recruiting potential of the Forum is worth the time and expense. Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, a fellow Republican, has been invited the last two years, but Mr. Ridge, who only skis occasionally, sent regrets both times, said his spokesman.
Gov. George W. Bush, whose Presidential ambitions might make him particularly inclined to consort with world leaders, has also turned down invitations to Davos. Mr. Bush, an avid bass fisherman who does not ski, was busy campaigning in New Hampshire this year, and was tied up with legislative matters last year, said his spokesman, Scott McClellan.
Mr. McDonough insisted that at this year's meeting, Governor Whitman would be too busy wooing potential businesses to ski, spa or luge. To underscore the rigors of the governor's stay in Davos, her press office last week released an itinerary packed with meetings involving foreign officials, trade ministers and executives who do business in the state. She was also scheduled to give an address about the business climate in the United States, Mr. Medina said.
"The meetings and contacts we've had at Davos in the past have led, directly or indirectly, to hundreds of millions of dollars in prospective sales for New Jersey businesses," Mr. Medina said.
Mrs. Whitman will also take the time to meet with leaders of an assortment of locally based businesses like Merck & Co., Pfizer and Goldman Sachs, which is expanding in New Jersey. Of course, Goldman Sachs, Merck and Pfizer all have headquarters within driving distance of Mrs. Whitman's office in Trenton, which raises the kind of question that probably won't be heard this week in the rarified air over Davos:
Wouldn't it have saved taxpayers money if they had just met in Piscataway?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Kocieniewski

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (93%); ALPS (91%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); AOL INC (56%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; DAVOS (SWITZERLAND); UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (93%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (93%); ALPS (91%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US); ETHICS GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); AIR FARES (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ETHICS (61%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID BILL GATES (68%); BILL CLINTON (58%); STEVE CASE (55%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



749 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 15; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Parental Modeling Key to Teenage Drinking

 BODY:
Since the recent arrests of adults stemming from a teenage drinking party in northern Westchester, the media have been buzzing regarding the subject of teenage drinking and what to do about it. "Underage Drinkers Getting Younger and Drinking More," Jan. 16 .
Much of the advice publicly aired from experts has encompassed police enforcement and what I would call the "itinerary" strategy: know where your kids are, who they are with, etc. While these tools are surely part of the prevention arsenal, discussion of the main weapon, parental modeling, has been strangely absent. Simply put, parental alcohol use and parents' attitudes toward drinking influence the decisions their children will make regarding alcohol. 
 As we all know, parents are still the most influential role models for their children. We speak of parental modeling in terms of education, racial or ethnic tolerance and smoking, to name a few examples. Why then, do we not speak of the importance of parents as role models in terms of influencing their children's choices regarding alcohol? I suggest two reasons. First, in order to discuss alcohol issues with their children, parents must first honestly evaluate the use of alcohol in their own lives. Frankly, that is an uncomfortable prospect to many adults. Ask a handful of your friends to discuss the role of alcohol in their lives and how much they drink and watch how fast the subject changes. This does not mean that your friends necessarily have a problem with alcohol, it is just an indication of how sensitive the subject can be.
The second reason stems from our national denial about alcohol. We are so focused on the war on illegal drugs that often we forget that alcohol is by far the most widely used psychoactive drug in America, resulting in enormous costs to both our families and our economy. In 1995, the costs to our economy from alcohol-related problems were $166.5 billion. Alcohol contributes to more than 100,000 deaths a year, making it the third leading cause of preventable mortality. At any given time, 25 percent of all hospital admissions are because of alcohol-related illness or undiagnosed alcoholism. Additionally, it is estimated that alcohol is a factor in 70 percent of all sexual abuse of children, 40 percent of all Family Court actions, 60 percent of all episodes of domestic violence and 25 percent of suicides.
I do not mean to suggest that by enjoying a cocktail or a glass of wine with dinner you will send your child on a descent to the Bowery. Millions of Americans do drink responsibly and sanely (two thirds of the United States population drinks, but only 10 percent of them drink 50 percent of all the alcohol consumed). But the need for strong parental involvement in teenage alcohol prevention is critical because the consequences of early drinking are much greater for our children. Alcohol-related traffic fatalities remain a leading cause of death for teenagers and young adults.
The Centers for Disease Control reports that although alcohol use increases the risk for motor vehicle crashes for all drivers, for young drivers the risk begins to increase at very low blood alcohol content. In young people who drive after drinking, the relative risk for crash involvement is greater at all percentages of blood alcohol contents than for older drivers who drink.
Studies show that people who begin drinking before the age of 15 are four times more likely to develop alcoholism than those who begin at 21.
Furthermore, 64 percent of all high school seniors report that they have been drunk and that nearly one third of all seniors say they have had five or more drinks in a row during the last two weeks.
Additionally, alcohol is a gateway drug for teenagers. That is, it precedes the use of other drugs and lowers one's resistance to the option of using harder drugs. With the young, heavy drinkers tend to be heavy drug users. One study reported that of the students who didn't drink, only 11 percent had tried marijuana and only 1 percent had used it regularly. But of the heavy drinkers surveyed, 85 percent had tried pot and 50 percent used it regularly.
In parenting there is ultimately no greater influence on our children than the role model we as parents provide for them. All of our actions and behavior are stored in their memory and will influence the decisions and choices they make as they navigate the mine field known as adolescence. If we as a society wish to impart the value of teenage abstinence from alcohol and other drugs, we must start in our own homes and provide them with enviable role models.
 
PETER B. HARCKHAM
Katonah 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOL ABUSE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PARTIES (SOCIAL) CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); UNDERAGE DRINKING (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); PARENTING (89%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (89%); FAMILY (89%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (78%); CHILD ABUSE (77%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (75%); FAMILY LAW (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (75%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (73%); FAMILY COURTS (69%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (63%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (62%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (61%); SUICIDE (60%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HARCKHAM, PETER B

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



750 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
For a Family of Builders, the Bronx Is Up

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
FOR years, they have had their offices on East 173rd Street, in the heart of the South Bronx. And during that time they have been in the vanguard of the redevelopment of the community, in neighborhoods like Melrose and Morrisania, where they have built some 800 units of low-income for-sale housing as well as thousands more units of low-income rentals. Even now, with the construction business booming throughout traditionally more profitable areas of the city, they continue to provide housing where many other developers have been unwilling to tread.
But don't tell Mario Procida, 42, that he and the other members of Procida Realty and Construction Corporation, his family's business, are bleeding-heart do-gooders whose choice of projects reflects some sort of philanthropic bent. 
 "We are in business to make money, like everybody else," he said with just a touch too much gruffness, as if unwilling to admit any ulterior, laudable motive. "We just happened to be here."
Perhaps so. But while the firm has had its share of big projects in prosperous areas, including building condominiums in TriBeCa and constructing the luxury Water Club restaurant on East 30th Street in Manhattan, its specialty now seems to be once-blighted neighborhoods in the Bronx. The company builds what is known as "affordable housing" there, as well as commercial developments. And the experience of the Procidas in the Bronx has held them in good stead for similar projects in other places like Poughkeepsie, where they have been selected for a project along the city's depressed riverfront, and in Atlantic City, N.J., where they built an urban renewal development called Madison Landing.
Originally located on East 7th Street in Manhattan, the company was founded in 1928 by Mr. Procida's grandfather, also named Mario, and has always been a family concern. According to Mr. Procida, it moved to the Bronx in the mid-1970's so that his father, Joseph, could be closer to home in New Jersey, and because it was "easy to get from the Bronx to all the other boroughs." Though his father has long since left the day-to-day management of the company to others, he still comes in to help out, Mr. Procida said. The 15 or so employees also include Mr. Procida's mother, Dorothy, the company controller; his sister, Christine Albericci, 34, a senior vice president; and a brother, Joseph, 32, a vice president.
Procida's community involvement began in the 1980's, almost by accident, Mr. Procida said. The family was then primarily building "a lot of fast-food restaurants." But they were also doing a $10 million "high end" residential project near the Throgs Neck Bridge called the White Beach Condominiums, which made the company "one of only a few that were building homes in the Bronx then," Ms. Albericci said.
And so, she said, when redevelopment of the South Bronx became a municipal priority, local groups approached the Procidas and asked them to bid on a subsidized-housing project.
They won the bid, and the result was Salters Square, a group of 130 town houses east of Crotona Park on Intervale Avenue, completed in 1988. The project is in Melrose near Charlotte Street, whose burned-out lots became a national symbol of urban decay in the 1970's.
For its part, Procida received a so-called builder's fee, its profit strictly limited by the terms of its agreement with the project's various public and private sponsors.
Since then, Procida has built many similar developments. For example, Melrose Court is a project of 265 condominiums, all with outside entrances, clustered around three courtyards, that won numerous design awards in the early 1990's. The latest residential project is called Plaza de los Angeles, in the city's Melrose Commons Urban Renewal Zone. Built by Procida together with the architects Magnus Magnusson and Peter Stand, Plaza de los Angeles comprises 35 three-family homes that are scheduled for late winter or early spring occupancy.The homes sell for $220,000 to $230,000; 80 percent are already sold.
Like Melrose Court, Plaza de los Angeles and many of Procida's more recent projects have been sponsored by the New York City Housing Partnership, a nonprofit group that serves as an intermediary between the city and developers. Officials of that group praise the Procida firm.
"They are really committed to building affordable housing," said Salvatore D'Avola, vice president of the partnership's home ownership program. "They are good builders and they are responsible."
But there have been some bumps in the road for the Procida family. Mario Procida concedes that some problems, such as leaky roofs, surfaced after the construction of Salters Square, the Procidas' first low-income project. When homeowners complained, Procida was obliged to agree to make repairs, although at least one resident declined the repairs and instead sued. Mr. Procida said the case was still pending.
A falling out with another brother, William, led to his departure from the company a few years ago, although Mr. Procida said that family members were all talking to one another now. And a large commercial project in New Jersey that went bad caused the company to file for bankruptcy in late 1996; Mr. Procida said that the company had emerged from that proceeding and was now financially sound, with gross annual revenues of about $12 million.
And while the company remains committed to staying, and building, in the Bronx, it is pursuing projects elsewhere. "There is still a lot of stuff that can go wrong," Mr. Procida said. "And there are limited profit margins. But we are fairly expert in this marketplace now, and in it to stay."
Why, though, if there is more money to be made elsewhere?
Ms. Alberrici points to a plaque that a family gave to her in gratitude for the Procida family's efforts in getting them into their very first home. "There's definitely a warm and fuzzy aspect to it," she said, smiling.
Mr. Procida smiled, too, albeit for only a second. "The fact is that we have rebuilt neighborhoods," he said. "That is gratifying, I admit."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mario Procida at one of his sites, Third Avenue and East 174th Street. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "DWELLINGS -- Shelter on A Shoestring"
Procida Realty and Construction Corporation has built more than 800 units of low-income, for-sale housing in the Bronx. Here are some of their projects.
 
Table shows what the projects were, where they are located, and approximate cost of living.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PROCIDA REALTY AND CONSTRUCTION CORP PROCIDA REALTY&CONSTRUCTION CORP (91%); MELROSE COURT (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROCIDA REALTY AND CONSTRUCTION CORP MELROSE COURT (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FAMILY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); FAST FOOD (66%); BEACHES (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD MARIO PROCIDA (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



751 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 9; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: KINGSBRIDGE;
Bronx Residents Take Aim At City Hall's Armory Plan

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
Ronn Jordan grew up in the Fordham section of the Bronx. When he was 4 years old, during a bus ride in the northwest part of the borough, he caught his first glimpse of the Kingsbridge Armory, a massive medieval-looking structure at Jerome Avenue and West Kingsbridge Road.
"It was majestic," he remembered. But over the years, Mr. Jordan has seen the building deteriorate. "It has hurt members of the community here to see how bad it looks now," he said. "It has become the world's largest pigeon coop." 
 Last week, Mayor Giuliani announced a $110 million plan to transform the armory into a 475,000-square-foot entertainment, sports and retail complex. But Mr. Jordan is one of many Bronx residents who think the mayor has ignored neighborhood residents by developing a plan that does not meet local needs.
"The community has been left out of the loop," Mr. Jordan said. "It's like the mayor's just sitting in City Hall and saying, 'I'm going to tell them what they need in the northwest Bronx.' "
Mr. Jordan and the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition, a neighborhood organization with which he is involved, have long been urging the city to use the armory to alleviate overcrowding in local schools. District 10, in which the armory is situated, is the city's most overcrowded.
Bruce A. Irushalmi, a spokesman for District 10, said the school board had always hoped the site would include an educational component. "There is a very specific need and very identifiable need for additional educational space in the Kingsbridge Road area, because it's the epicenter of our population explosion," Mr. Irushalmi said.
Michael Carey, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, said the city had considered adding a school to the site, but rejected the idea.
"At the end of the day, we wanted a project that will be self-sustaining," Mr. Carey said. "A school would not be able to pay for this facility because of the size and cost to keep this project operational."
Instead, the city will work with RD Management, a retail center development company, and Basketball City, a company that runs several recreational efforts, to create a commercial complex that, he says, will become a "massive economic engine for the community." The project would provide 1,100 permanent jobs and 625 construction jobs and take two and a half years to complete.
John M. Reilly, executive director of the Fordham Bedford Housing Corporation, a nonprofit group, said he hoped the city would still consider other options.
"We're happy to see the administration is committed to put some public funds towards it," he said. "But we think the plans the community is talking about need further discussion." NINA SIEGAL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An entertainment, sports and retail complex planned for the armory site. (Greenberg Farrow Architecture Engineering Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: FORDHAM BEDFORD HOUSING CORP (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: KINGSBRIDGE ARMORY (NYC); ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; ARMORIES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL CITIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RETAILERS (74%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); BASKETBALL (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RELIGION (66%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); SIEGAL, NINA RUDY GIULIANI (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



752 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
EvenS.U.V. Drivers Can Find Ways to Hug a Tree

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FORGET road rage. Though it may seem like the trendy highway vice, environmentalists say millions of American vehicle buyers have committed a different sin, namely gluttony. They went shopping for a family car and came home instead with a sport utility vehicle, a van or a pickup truck.
If you are in this group, and unless you haul bales of hay or entire soccer teams, or commute up and down the Grand Tetons, you may be wantonly contributing more than your share of pollution said to cause global warming. To quote Eldridge Cleaver out of his radical 1960's context, you are part of the problem, not part of the solution. 
 But suppose you recognize the error of your ways. What can you do to atone?
Quite a bit, say environmentalists and energy experts who hope that buyers who picked something bigger than a car will suffer some pangs of conscience. Lately, S.U.V.'s, vans and pickups account for about half the sales of "light duty vehicles," the government's term for the kinds of cars and trucks purchased for household and small-business use.
It's not too late to repent. You can do so from the comfort of your own home, but you may have to face certain hardships, like getting by with only one refrigerator and junking the halogen torchier. Like a dieter compensating for a binge, you have dug yourself in deep, but with a lot of small steps you can still climb out.
First, the scale of the problem. Burning a gallon of gasoline, no matter how cleanly the vehicle does it, creates a little more than 18 pounds of carbon dioxide, the most prevalent of the so-called greenhouse gases. In the process, carbon from the gasoline is combined with oxygen from the air in amounts that scientists can weigh, or calculate.
Add in the energy use required to refine that gallon from crude oil and haul it to your neighborhood gasoline station, and each gallon is worth about 20 pounds of pollution. The number is the same whether that gallon takes you 70 miles in a Honda Insight (the new hybrid that saves gasoline by shutting off the engine at stop signs and turning energy lost in braking into electricity for acceleration) or the four-wheel-drive Range Rover, at about 13 miles a gallon.
Put differently, for each pound of carbon dioxide, the Insight will go 3.8 miles; the Range Rover will go about 1,100 yards, or about six-tenths of a mile.
Most purchase decisions, however, are not between such extremes but between more similar vehicles, like a typical car and a typical S.U.V. The Environmental Protection Agency estimates that the average light truck gets about 15.3 miles a gallon, compared with 22.5 for the car. The truck generates a pound and a half of carbon dioxide for every pound from the car. Or, assuming that they are each driven 14,000 miles a year, the truck generates 5,600 pounds, or nearly three tons, more carbon dioxide.
Many steps to make up the difference are easy, according to Joseph J. Romm, a former assistant secretary of energy for efficiency and renewables and the author of "Cool Companies" (Island Press, 1999), a book on businesses that have reduced greenhouse gas emissions. "Anybody can cut one to two tons," he said.
The main form of energy used in most homes, providing the biggest opportunity for saving, is electricity. Power generated at hydroelectric and nuclear plants produces hardly any carbon dioxide, but the biggest single fuel is coal, which is rich in carbon. Nationally, the average kilowatt-hour, the energy needed to light ten 100-watt bulbs for an hour, produces about 1.5 pounds of carbon dioxide. In the Northeast, with proportionally more nuclear generation, the number is about 1.06 pounds a kilowatt hour, according to the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy.
AT the national average, earning back the 5,600 pounds means saving about 3,700 kilowatt-hours a year -- what a typical home might use in three months. A household could save almost that much by turning off eight 100-watt bulbs that burn 12 hours a day -- if it has that many big bulbs burning that long, and if the residents don't mind going to sleep at sunset.
There are more practical options. "The No. 1 thing I'd recommend is getting rid of halogen torchiers," Dr. Romm said. Replacing a 300-watt model that burns six hours a night with a fixture that has a 75-watt compact fluorescent bulb would provide about the same light -- but produce 750 pounds less carbon dioxide pollution.
The next step is getting rid of the old refrigerator. Not the one in the kitchen, but the one that used to be in the kitchen and is now in the basement playroom or the garage. To the chagrin of efficiency advocates, it seems that nearly everybody who pulled out the avocado-colored 1970's refrigerator and replaced it with a sleek, new, energy-efficient white-on-white model kept the old one, too. If those who want a couple of cases of cold beer can make do by simply running to the store in their S.U.V.'s, they can save about 1,500 pounds of carbon dioxide a year by junking the old fridge. (If you're keeping track, you're up to 2,250 pounds in carbon dioxide savings, or 1,500 kilowatt-hours.)
Further ideas come from "CO2 Diet for a Greenhouse Planet," a paper by John M. DeCicco of the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy and James H. Cook, Dorene Bolze and Jan Beyea of the National Audubon Society.
A low-flow shower head would save 300 pounds of carbon dioxide in a house with an electric water heater -- 80 pounds with a more energy-efficient gas water heater.
Washing four out of five loads of clothes in cold water instead of hot would save about 1,000 pounds of carbon dioxide with an electric water heater. (If the water was heated with gas, the saving would be 350 pounds; with oil, 500 pounds.)
Do all that in a home with an electric water heater, and your savings total 3,550 pounds of carbon dioxide, not enough to compensate for the S.U.V., but enough to make a good dent.
There are ways to go further, of course -- most notably with the home heating system. But such improvements are usually undertaken only when an old system dies. The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy says that replacing a 25-year-old oil-fired home heating system with a modern one saves 218 gallons of oil in a house that had used 750 gallons a season. Because heating oil produces slightly more carbon dioxide a gallon than does gasoline, the savings from this step alone would be 5,886 pounds, enough to assuage most cases of S.U.V. guilt.
And there is always the back-to-nature approach. Planting a new tree on the property would absorb 26 pounds of carbon dioxide a year. Planted to shade the house in summer and provide a windbreak in winter, the tree could save 300 pounds a year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Mary Ann Smith)
 
Chart: "Relieving Sport-Utility Guilt"
S.U.V. owners with misgivings about burning extra fuel and causing more pollution can compensate, and then some, in their homes.
 
Excess carbon dioxide emissions by a light truck
If both a typical light truck and a typical car go 14,000 miles a year, the truck will produce 5,600 pounds more in carbon dioxide emissions than the car -- a difference of nearly three tons.
 
By taking the following measures at home, a guilt-ridden driver can more than make up the difference.
Washing machine: Use a front-loading clothes washer that saves energy and water. Savings: 500-1,000 lbs. of carbon dioxide a year
Windows: Install new windows with layers of glazing or tinted coatings. Savings: 4,300 lbs.
Lighting: Replace incandescent lighting with compact fluorescent bulbs. Savings: 1,250 lbs.
Oil furnace: Replace an old furnace with a more efficient system. Savings: 5,900 lbs.
Refrigerator: Replace an old refrigerator with a new, energy-efficient model. Savings: 1,500 lbs.
(Source: American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (91%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE; AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (78%); MOUNTAINS (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); SOCCER (56%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L JOSEPH J ROMM (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



753 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
From the Streets of Seattle To the Table at Davos

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland

 BODY:
MEMORIES of Seattle pervade this latest gathering of world leaders and corporate elite. This being their first big get-together since Seattle, there was much bracing for violent street protests drawing attention to the shortcomings of globalization and free trade. But the message from the streets has hit Davos in a different format.
Not that big, riveting demonstrations are really a possibility here. This tiny ski resort, hard to reach even in summer, is not wide-open Seattle. The well-armed Swiss troops at checkpoints along the main roads are not the easier-going Seattle police. And the World Economic Forum is not the World Trade Organization. 
 Rather than excluding opponents, as the W.T.O. did in Seattle, the forum invites its enemies and critics to participate and mingle with the chief executives of the 1,000 companies whose dues and fees pay almost all of the forum's $37 million annual budget. This year, some of the Seattle protesters got invitations and found that their street demonstrations in Seattle added weight to their words in Davos.
"If you are a Shell or a Monsanto or a BP Amoco, you don't want to be blindsided simply because you have not had contact with the leaders of groups that can mobilize opposition to your practices," said Lance Knobel, who planned the 318 discussion sessions. "You listen to their concerns."
Minds are not changed, of course; no one is likely to come away converted when this gathering ends Tuesday night. The world leaders (Bill Clinton and Tony Blair accepted invitations this year) and famous executives (Bill Gates is a regular) will go on insisting that globalization and free trade are good things that raise living standards.
No one said so more clearly than Lewis B. Campbell, chairman of Textron, a multinational company engaged in manufacturing and finance. But Seattle shook him. "I was very unpleasantly surprised by the outcome," he said. "After Seattle, we have to rethink our assumptions" -- not about the benefits of free trade and investment, but its inevitability. "We could lose."
Mr. Campbell shared a platform with John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Martin Khor, director of the Third World Network, an umbrella group for 80 or so organizations in developing countries that say unrestricted trade hits their nations especially hard.
In Seattle, Mr. Sweeney, Mr. Khor and Brent Blackwelder, president of Friends of the Earth USA, helped organize and lead demonstrations. Here they were participants. Their message: Removing barriers to trade and investment may be inevitable and even a good thing in the right circumstances. But without proper regulation, the cost is considerable: more pollution, destruction of rain forests, frequent financial crises that destroy jobs and savings, cheap imported food that undercuts small farmers in developing countries, and workers without the power to bargain and protect themselves.
The list goes on, and the arguments fall mostly on deaf ears. Why, then, bother to come here?
For one thing, on the issue of pollution and climate, there is some movement. Companies like BP Amoco that have voluntarily limited the emission of damaging gases into the atmosphere were extolled here. So public opinion and debate do sometimes have an effect, however incipient.
But there is a crucial difference for Mr. Sweeney, Mr. Khor and Mr. Blackwelder between Davos and Seattle. The W.T.O., they say, is a governmental body with the power to set binding rules that enforce free trade, and was doing just that in Seattle. Stopping the rule-setting became a consuming goal, justifying the demonstrations that disrupted the meeting. "No deal is better than a bad deal," Mr. Sweeney said.
The World Economic Forum is a different matter. The corporate luminaries who give it life certainly influence the officials who make the W.T.O. rules, but they don't make any rules themselves. Here in Davos they mostly talk, and it pays to talk with them, Mr. Sweeney said. He has been coming here for three years now.
Mr. Khor and Mr. Blackwelder, newly invited this year, agree. "If we can't change their minds," Mr. Blackwelder said, "we are still left with all the demonstration mechanisms that we used so effectively in Seattle."
Even in Davos, Mr. Blackwelder's organization makes that point. One of his colleagues, Andrea Durbin, maintains a presence at a caucus of organizations opposed to unrestricted trade and globalization that have gathered outside the forum. Some of them were invited but declined to take part.
Those who stayed outside said they would feel compromised if they participated in a conference sponsored by a group they consider undemocratic and deeply opposed to their views. But Friends of the Earth took a more flexible stance.
"Our perspective is that it is important to be inside and outside," Ms. Durbin said at a news conference a few blocks from where the forum is holding its meetings. "There are people we are trying to persuade from the inside, but it is also important to maintain pressure from the outside."
In other words, mass demonstrations remain an option, if not for this isolated ski resort, then for the next act in the escalating struggle over trade and globalization. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (55%); BP (LSE) (55%); MON (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (90%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (99%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (90%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION BP PLC (55%); MONSANTO CO (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE (WASH); DAVOS (SWITZERLAND); UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (99%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (84%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RIOTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); BUDGETS (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); TRENDS (64%); RAIN FORESTS (50%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS BILL CLINTON (54%); BILL GATES (50%); LEWIS B CAMPBELL (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



754 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3005 words

HEADLINE: 107 Months, and Counting;
Expansion Redefines Economy's Limits

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
IN the summer of 1992, a pervasive gloom cast a shadow over the American economy. The unemployment rate rose to 7.8 percent, the worst in years. The Federal Reserve cut interest rates, trying to breathe life into an economy that seemed caught in protracted stagnation. And the federal budget deficit rose to its highest level ever.
A best-selling book by a prominent economist, Lester Thurow, reflected a widely held view that the United States would continue to stumble behind a vigorous Japanese economy and a unified Europe. Even President George Bush, who would soon lose his job over the dismal economy, acknowledged that something was wrong. 
 What almost no one divined was that the American economy had already embarked on a historic expansion, one that took three more years to really bloom. And how rich that bloom now is. The expansion -- an uninterrupted rise in the value of the goods and services that the nation produces -- becomes the longest in history next month.
Gone is the vision of America as an economically weak giant. With the economy growing since 1995 at an average annual rate of 4.2 percent, unemployment has fallen to a 30-year low of 4.1 percent, and consumer prices have risen less than 3 percent a year. Even as its global rivals have faltered, the United States has turned out to be capable of more growth and less inflation than almost anyone had anticipated.
And that is the great gift of the 1990's. However this expansion ends -- whether in a stock market collapse or more gently -- its legacy is a reborn respect for the nation's potential. Limits to economic growth and prosperity still exist at the turn of the century, but they are not the stunted ones of the 70's, 80's and early 90's.
"The last four years really have lifted our hopes about what is possible," said Paul Romer, an economics historian at Stanford University. "We emerged from the 1970's and 1980's with substantially diminished expectations for the performance of the American economy. And now confidence is returning that the economy can grow as fast as it once did in the past without much inflation."
The 1990's expansion turns 107 months old in February, edging it past that of the 1960's as the longest ever. In other words, it has been nearly nine years since the last recession ended in March 1991.
By most measures, of course, the 60's expansion remains the gold standard for the American economy. Then, the economy grew more quickly. Wages and family incomes rose by larger amounts each year. The poverty level and the unemployment rate fell more quickly and to lower levels. The gap between the wealthy and the poor was much smaller.
Still, over the last four years, the current expansion has gained traction, leaving its mark across America. The strong growth has lifted wages and salaries throughout the work force -- although, adjusted for inflation, for the most part they are not back to levels reached in the 1970's.
Where the expansion clearly shows is in family income. Labor shortages have drawn more family members into the work force, and those with jobs are working more. However stressful that may be for family life, median family income rose to a record $46,737 in 1998, adjusted for inflation, decisively past the old high of $44,974 in 1989.
Tracey and Carrie Jones, who live in a Cincinnati suburb, are beneficiaries of this revival. Mr. Jones, 43, assembles and helps to design labeling machines for commercial packages. He has held the same job for four years, a considerable improvement over the early 1990's, when layoffs forced him into hourly work at several companies, without health insurance or a 401(k) pension plan. He now has both.
The long stay at one employer has raised Mr. Jones's confidence in his own skills. He earns $45,000, up from less than $38,000 when he started in 1996. He got a 3.5 percent raise last year and another one this month.
"I wish it had been 5 percent," he said. "I have worked harder for this company than I have ever worked in my life." In March, he expects a $750 bonus, the amount he got last year. That lifts his spirits.
His wife is not complaining. "As the months pass and he still has his job, that makes me feel better," she said. "And when he comes home and complains about being busy, I say, 'Be glad you are busy.' "
She herself has worked two evenings a week -- a total of four hours -- as a bookkeeper for her dentist. At 38, she devotes the rest of her time to raising the couple's two sons. "Every time my husband goes to have his teeth cleaned," she said, "the dentist has asked, 'When is your wife going to work more for me?' " She has finally agreed to add one afternoon, from noon to 3 p.m., while the boys are in school. That will nearly double her $4,500 in annual pay.
Over all, the income gains have been greatest in the upper tier of the work force. Those earning more than $80,000 -- often much more -- have enjoyed steadily rising incomes, as they did in the 1970's and 1980's.
To be sure, these winners, concentrated on Wall Street and in Silicon Valley, are often paid in shares of stock that have skyrocketed, perhaps far beyond their real worth. Given that those euphorically priced shares have been collateral for a huge amount of borrowing by both individuals and corporations, the expansion could come to an abrupt halt in a market sell-off.
But for now, even the poorest regions are enjoying the fruits of economic growth. No region is poorer than a four-county area in the Rio Grande Valley where the unemployment rate two years ago was more than 20 percent; now it is 13 percent. It's not that there are more jobs in the valley; the situation has improved because so many people who lived there have migrated to Houston, Austin or Dallas, where jobs are plentiful.
"When you are a construction electrician and you are earning $6 an hour or less in the valley, and you hear what they are paying in these other cities, you go," said Sister Judy Donovan, a Roman Catholic nun and a community organizer in the valley for the Industrial Areas Foundation.
Nationally, the economy has grown since 1995 at nearly double the rate that most economists and policy makers thought possible without provoking inflation. The all-important productivity growth rate, tracking how much more each worker contributes to output each year for the same hours of work, has risen to an annual average of 2 percent for the 1990's, better than the 1970's and 80's but well short of the 60's.
"The attitude in the 1960's was concentrate on growth and don't worry about inflation, and that attitude may be returning now," Mr. Romer said. "The strong expansion may be demonstrating to us that fast growth and low inflation reinforce each other."
The expansion has changed the political debate, too. Patrick Buchanan and Ross Perot rose to prominence in the late 80's and early 90's on the job anxieties of many voters. This year, those men have been only faint voices, and neither jobs nor the health of the economy is much of an issue.
But will the expansion last? Even the gloomiest forecasters -- economists like A. Gary Shilling, a Wall Street consultant -- have ceased to see a recession just a few months away. "The stock market speculation has carried the economy longer than I anticipated," Mr. Shilling said.
Other economists say new technologies, spilling out one after another, will keep the economy growing robustly not just for months, but for years, ultimately justifying the stock market's lofty level.
Only time will settle the debate.
 
The Causes
Aid From Computers, Markets and the Fed
What accounts for the durability of the expansion? The Internet and the spread of personal computers are high on the list, because they raise productivity. The Intel Corporation, to pick one example out of thousands, has set up special Web sites for customers, mainly computer manufacturers that buy Intel's chips. They place orders on the Web, and computers do the rest, letting Intel employees do other tasks.
"That is a real improvement in our productivity," said Andrew S. Grove, Intel's chairman. Output and revenue have risen faster than labor costs, largely because of the new technologies. Each Intel employee accounted for $436,000 of the company's revenue in 1999, up from $197,000 in 1991. There is more money for profits and wages without raising prices, and the economy grows larger without inflation.
But is every company an Intel? Or is the impact of computers and the Internet likely to be used up in a decade or two?
Many industries are benefiting: Airlines and theaters through ticket sales on the Web, retailers through e-commerce, Wall Street through online trading. The growing list raises the national efficiency for now.
"We have entered a period of rapid and constant innovation, just as we did when electricity and the light bulb spread through the country," said James H. Stock, an economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. "But there are limits. I tend to see the computer and the Internet and the technologies related to them like electricity and the light bulb. Once they are widely used, their effect on growth tends to taper off."
Still, new technology is by no means the only reason for the booming economy. Another is that strong profits and low-cost financing, mainly through the stock market, have resulted in record levels of corporate investment in all kinds of machinery, not just computers, and so in increased production. Moreover, Asia and Latin America have become growing sources of manufactured goods, a new supply line that was particularly noticeable during the Asian financial crisis.
The Fed also gets a share of the credit for sustaining the expansion. Rather than sharply raising interest rates in anticipation of higher inflation, a reaction that until the 1990's often dumped the economy into recession, the Fed is now more willing to let a boom run its course, as long as inflation stays reasonably close to 2 percent, roughly its present level.
"The way to describe the change at the Fed is to say the people there are not so trigger-happy," said Robert M. Solow, a Nobel economist. "They keep talking as if they were still trigger-happy about inflation, but they no longer really are."
There are still other changes. The United States has become less dependent on oil, so the latest increase in oil prices has not produced the sort of price shock that was so devastating in the 1970's and 80's. The rise of a service economy has also helped to hold down wages and inflation. Faced with labor shortages, service companies have been quick to relocate or expand in states with pools of inexpensive, unemployed workers.
Manufacturers cannot move their heavy equipment and their more complicated operations so quickly. But that is not a problem for Burrelle's Information Services, which culls newspaper, magazine, video and Internet citations for corporate customers.
Burrelle's, with headquarters in Livingston, N.J., has big operations there and in New York City and Utah. But its growth these days is in Houlton, Me., where unemployment is a couple of percentage points higher than the national average. As a result, educated people can be persuaded to sign on for $6.50 an hour, with a promise of $10 an hour after three or four years.
"We can still get people in Houlton, but the labor market is getting tighter," said Robert Waggoner, Burrelle's chief executive. "We are looking for places where unemployment is higher and they also have good school systems."
Like other busy companies, Burrelle's pushes its workers to keep up with the workload -- a bit of extra pressure that has often added to productivity at the height of an expansion. And employees everywhere, perhaps cowed by past downsizing, are more willing to accept signing bonuses, performance bonuses and profit sharing as their reward rather than insisting on raises, which are harder for employers to absorb without raising prices.
"There is a general understanding in the United States today that companies are not going to compete for workers by raising wages," said David Collander, an economic historian at Middlebury College in Vermont. "And that understanding has become embedded in our social structure."
Rising stock and home prices are high on everyone's list of factors contributing to the expansion's durability. So is growing public confidence, at its highest since the 1960's. "It would be odd if people were not pleased with their job situations and their rising incomes," said Richard Curtin, director of the University of Michigan's Consumer Surveys. "What is odd is that they don't expect the good times to end in the next five years."
 
The Rules
Raising the Ceiling On the Economy
A result of this optimism has been an explosion in consumer spending, paid for partly through higher incomes, but also through credit. As stocks and homes have climbed in value, they have become, in effect, the collateral for the rising debt that helps keep the expansion robust.
Nearly 25 percent of the economic growth since 1996 is a result of the stock market and real estate booms, says Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve.
And if those booms had never existed? If the stock market had never become so exuberant? The economy would still have grown substantially faster, without inflation, than Mr. Greenspan thought was possible -- until he saw it happen.
However the expansion is finally explained, an old set of rules, deeply ingrained in economic forecasting and college textbooks, is losing its punch. In the late 1960's, the inflation that had descended on America was attributed to shortages of goods and services. After all, hadn't Lyndon Johnson demonstrated that even the mighty American economy could not produce enough to satisfy a prospering citizenry and also an army in Vietnam?
That idea of the economy's limits gained an iron grip on academic theory and government policy. Unemployment could not fall below 6 percent, the rules had it, or labor shortages would drive up wages, then prices. In the 70's and 80's, that happened just often enough to demonstrate the theory's accuracy. Industry could no longer operate flat out, risking inflationary shortages, which also occurred often enough to be disconcerting.
So the Fed sought to slow the economy whenever it seemed to be expanding by more than 2.25 percent a year or so. That was considered the outer limit, an inflationary trigger point, all right for a few months or even a year, but beyond what the nation could sustain for a significant period.
"There were all sorts of walls that economists put up in their minds that ruled out the possibility of powerful economic growth," Mr. Collander said. "It is these walls that are coming down."
The view of Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers reflects the new consensus. "Three to 3.5 percent," he said in an interview, "is probably not an implausible number right now as a sustainable growth rate for the economy."
The difference may seem small, but the amount of money it represents is considerable in the giant American economy, which produces more than $9 trillion a year in goods and services. Increasing that output by Mr. Summers's new rate means an additional $345 annually for each person in the United States. That has been happening, and then some, since 1996.
 
The Dangers
An Eerie Replay Of a Debt Buildup
But the risks -- the chief one is debt -- embedded in this growth are considerable. Debt is why the 1990's expansion got off to such a slow start. In the euphoria of the 1980's, huge amounts were borrowed against real estate or to finance corporate acquisitions -- always with the promise that office rents or still-rising real estate prices or cash flow from a "restructured" company would more than cover the debt payments. The 1987 stock market crash, and the end of the expansion a little more than two years later, dashed that promise.
In the debt crisis that followed, hundreds of savings and loan associations failed and banks had to write off billions in unpaid debt. With considerable help from the Federal Reserve, the lenders got back on their feet, but until they did Mr. Greenspan spoke of the "head winds" that were holding back the 1990's expansion in its early years.
A similar debt buildup is occurring now. Private-sector debt is as high as it was in 1985, the peak in the 80's. By one measure, total private-sector spending exceeds income and profits by an amount equal to 4.5 percent of the gross domestic product, says Wynne Godley, an economist at the Jerome Levy Economic Institute, a research group in Annandale, N.Y. That figure is a record.
But by another measure -- debt as a percentage of stock values and home prices -- the borrowing is rather mild, roughly 14 percent for households and 52 percent for businesses other than financial institutions. Those percentages are no higher today than at the beginning of the expansion.
Much, then, is riding on the booms on Wall Street and in home values. As long as they stay in place, the expansion should continue.
"If some shock broke the optimism in the financial markets, a lot of people could be in a serious situation," said Laura D'Andrea Tyson, a former economic adviser to President Clinton and now dean of the business school at the University of California at Berkeley. "They have become indebted relative to their wealth rather than their incomes, and that is a built-in vulnerability."
A recession must come. No economist doubts that. The only questions are when, and with how much damage. The answers depend on the extent to which innovation continues to drive growth, and on the stock market's ability to stay afloat.
"I don't even want to talk about a stock market collapse," said Mr. Solow, the Nobel laureate. "What everyone would like to see is the stock market stand still while companies and their profits catch up."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The economic expansion has helped the Joneses -- Carrie, left, and her husband, Tracey, with son Neil. "Be glad you are busy," Mrs. Jones says she tells her husband. (Mark Lyons for The New York Times)(pg. 16); (At-a-Glance)(pg. 1)
 
Graphs: "Longer, but Stronger?"
This week, the current economic boom is poised to surpass the record 106-month expansion of the 1960's. Here is how those expansions compare, in months, with others of the 20th century. (Source: National Bureau of Economic Research)(pg. 1)
 
"Four Decades of Economic Gains, Compared"
As in the 1960's -- and in contrast to the 70's and 80's -- the American economy in the 1990's managed to grow and create jobs without setting off inflation. But the expansion in the 90's did not benefit people with modest incomes nearly as much as that of the 60's.
 
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Percentage change in gross domestic product from last quarter of the previous decade.
 
UNEMPLOYMENT
Percent of all civilian workers unemployed each month.
 
PRODUCTIVITY
Percentage change in worker productivity from the last quarter of the previous decade.
 
INFLATION
Percentage change in consumer prices from the last month of the previous decade.
 
MEDIAN FAMILY INCOME
Percentage change in inflation-adjusted income from the last year of the previous decade.
 
PEOPLE IN POVERTY
Percentage of people living below the poverty line each year.
 
(Sources: Census Bureau; Bureau of Economic Analysis; Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INCOME; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); POVERTY RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); HISTORY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (57%); NATIONAL DEBT (57%); BESTSELLERS (56%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



755 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
Success Story in Germany Is Not All It Appears to Be

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
AS January winds down, the German stock market's benchmark index is leaving its main European rivals in the dust. The DAX index of 30 stocks is up 1.6 percent in euros, while the other major indexes are down sharply.
But the performance of the DAX is deceiving. It comes on the backs of just six stocks: SAP, Siemens, Munich Re, Mannesmann -- the Vodafone takeover target -- Allianz and Deutsche Telekom. The other 24 in the index are down so far this year. The big loser, Metro, is off 18.9 percent. 
 That is not a new story for American investors, who saw the Dow Jones industrial average rise 25.2 percent last year, while 61.6 percent of the stocks trading on the New York Stock Exchange were down 20 percent or more from their 52-week highs, according to Salomon Smith Barney. But it is just one of the many hurdles that American investors in German stocks face this year.
The worst news of 2000 has been the plunge in the value of the euro, which fell below the $1 level on Thursday and continued its decline on Friday, finishing the week at 97.78 cents. The euro is now down 16.2 percent since its debut on Jan. 1, 1999. So in dollar terms, the DAX is off 1.6 percent this year.
And while a weak euro could spur exports and, in turn, European stocks, its continued decline will eat away quickly at American investors' gains.
The campaign finance scandal that has engulfed the Christian Democratic Union of former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl is mushrooming. It has sent the DAX plunging on some days and is undermining the euro.
"A bigger correction in the German DAX cannot be ruled out, especially if Mr. Kohl were to name the companies involved" in the scandal, according to Marco Kramer, German strategist at Paribas in Frankfurt.
George Hodgson, European strategist at ABN-Amro in London, says an even bigger danger lies in the chance the German scandal will taint other European politicians.
"If global investors start to sense that European politicians are not healthy, the euro zone could attract the type of risk premium that Italy used to attract," Mr. Hodgson said, referring to the Italian corruption scandals that ruined the Christian Democrats in the early 1990's.
Inflation, while still below 2 percent, could head higher, meaning interest rates would rise. The spike in oil prices, the weaker euro (which makes oil and other imports more expensive) and union wage demands are all increasing price pressures.
On the positive side for Germany, the scandal has propped up the current chancellor, Gerhard Schroder of the Social Democratic Party, whose government was on its knees. That should make it easier to get key tax proposals approved this year.
ONE proposal, announced last month, calls for eliminating capital gains taxes on the sale of the large stakes that many German companies, especially banks and insurers, own in other concerns. The tax change would make it easier for German companies to begin the restructuring, acquiring and merging needed to make them leaner, meaner and more competitive. In other words, it would provide an impetus to go through the process of creating shareholder value that many American industries have already completed.
Banks, said Alex Ions, Lehman Brothers European strategist in London, would get cash from the sale of holdings, easing acquisitions abroad. Companies freed of these outside holders would find it easier to merge or would become more attractive acquisition targets.
The takeover fight for Mannesmann, the biggest operator of wireless telephone networks in Europe, illustrates the growing support for restructuring. "There has been no collusion by Mannesmann with the German establishment to fend off the takeover," Mr. Ions said.
But this is a long-term bet. And, unfortunately, the rally from the December tax announcement was immediate. Deutsche Bank shares jumped 14 percent in a day.
Mr. Hodgson said there should be a "second leg" to the capital gains story when the tax is approved and companies act on it. But, he said, over the "next few months, this could recede into the background."
The performance this year of the German stocks in Lehman Brothers' recommended pan-European portfolio also proves that patience is needed. The restructuring theme is at play in all of them -- Bayer, BMW, Continental, Mannesmann and Volkswagen. But except for Mannesmann, the takeover target, all are down 11 percent or more.
The restructuring theme, Mr. Ions said, "has not produced at the bottom line as quickly or as painlessly as some have hoped."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "High-Altitude Turbulence"
German stocks have been volatile. They posted a 39 percent return in 1999, but because of the weak euro, that translated into only a 20 percent gain in dollars. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALV (FRA) (90%); ALV (BIT) (90%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%); MUV2 (FRA) (58%); MUV2 (BIT) (58%); ABO (ASX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

COMPANY: ALLIANZ SE (90%); SIEMENS AG (58%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%); MUENCHENER RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE; GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CURRENCY; DAX STOCK INDEX (FRANKFURT) STOCK INDEXES (92%); EURO (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); SCANDALS (86%); TAX LAW (82%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BONDS (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN GERHARD SCHRODER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



756 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2828 words

HEADLINE: Leading Bertelsmann's Race tothe Future

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL 

 BODY:
OH, the might-have-beens. Picture Thomas Middelhoff, chief executive of Bertelsmann, on a global stage two weeks ago, sharing a photogenic -- if stilted -- group hug and high-fives to celebrate the stunning union of his German media conglomerate with America Online.
Instead, last week found a solitary Mr. Middelhoff marooned by a snowstorm in his stark office on the 24th floor of the Bertelsmann tower overlooking Times Square in Manhattan. In a hastily arranged conference call, he resigned from America Online's board, prompted by the company's announced merger with Bertelsmann's media archrival, Time Warner. 
 The parting was friendly, even sentimental, by corporate standards. Stephen M. Case, the chief executive of America Online, said he would never forget how Mr. Middelhoff, as a rising Bertelsmann official, had nurtured a struggling AOL with timely investments in the mid-1990's.
But Mr. Middelhoff -- a Dusseldorf altar boy turned Concorde-commuting media titan -- had little time for wistfulness. Though he still believes that Bertelsmann, the world's fourth-largest media conglomerate, would have been the "best partner" for AOL, Mr. Middelhoff, 46, professes no disappointment that key members of the foundation that owns Bertelsmann refused to surrender the 164-year-old company's independence.
And, besides: Who has time for hypotheticals when your job is achieving nothing less than cultural transformation -- on the Internet's frantic schedule -- in a rigidly traditional corporation with its heartbeat and headquarters in a small German city and with 78,000 employees around the world?
"We have to reach every brain to explain that we have nothing less than an industrial revolution," Mr. Middelhoff said in an interview last week. "That makes it necessary to change how we see and run our business. That means speed is king. That means we have to be decentralized on the one hand and also more corporate. We have without any question a generational change at Bertelsmann."
Mr. Middelhoff's manner is so relentlessly cheerful that some company executives joke that it must mask something sinister. But his task is daunting. To compete in a landscape of exotic new media hybrids like CBS-Viacom or AOL Time Warner -- the latter further engorged by its deal last week to absorb the EMI Group's music business -- he must reinvent the structure and customs of a global empire made up of 600 separate businesses.
In the 14 months since Mr. Middelhoff assumed leadership of Bertelsmann, he has been a fervid evangelist, promoting the necessity of increasing the pace -- and the risk-taking -- in Bertelsmann's efforts to integrate its core music, magazine, book publishing and printing businesses into the digital economy.
Bertelsmann, he says, must move like "a fleet of fast, maneuverable frigates" -- instead of a huge ocean liner -- toward his goal of digitizing every element of the company's sprawling holdings, from the written word to distribution.
"We want to be No. 1 in media e-commerce business," Mr. Middelhoff said with a strong German accent. "And from Bertelsmann's perspective, it's more important for us than to own a share in AOL."
With Time Warner's deal-making in the last two weeks, Mr. Middelhoff's preaching has taken on a more urgent tone. Bertelsmann, he said, intends to increase sharply its budget for acquisitions -- in part by spinning off more of its Internet properties, giving the company some of the cyberstock that is today's media-deal currency.
The goal of the shopping spree, he said, will be to strengthen Bertelsmann's position in magazine publishing, where it ranks No. 2 in the world, and in music, where the Time Warner-EMI deal leaves it a badly trailing No. 4.
Some analysts say media executives like Mr. Middelhoff should be focusing on deals that preserve access to online services -- deals, say, like Time Warner's with America Online. "They need to ensure that they have access to distribution in the new economy, as well as access to talent and capital in sufficient amounts, and the ability to make decisions very quickly," said David Brodwin, an associate partner at Andersen Consulting. "Few have been able to do this without partnering or acquiring."
Mr. Middelhoff said that he, too, was prepared to make deals with Internet companies, but that for now his focus was gaining dominance in media sectors, like music.
There had been reports in London that Bertelsmann would make a counteroffer for EMI's music business, but Mr. Middelhoff denied such plans. Bertelsmann, he said, discussed a deal with EMI executives in 1998, only to break off conversations because the price they were demanding was too high -- and that price, he noted, was a figure less than half of what Time Warner is paying to fold EMI's music holdings into a 50-50 joint venture.
"So now the question is: Do we have the financial power to develop our positions -- or, let me say, to protect them?" Mr. Middelhoff said.
Answering his own question, he said Bertelsmann was prepared to take what for it would be a dramatic step to maintain its competitiveness.
Historically, the decisive measure of success or failure for Bertelsmann's companies has been a formula that some of its American executives call the holy grail but in German is rendered gesamtkapitalrendite -- the return on assets, or on total capital employed.
For almost two decades, the rate has been set at 15 percent, a value established by Reinhard Mohn, a fourth-generation descendant of the company's founder. Mr. Mohn, 78,created the contemporary Bertelsmann, building the company from a publisher of Protestant hymnals into a book-club powerhouse and now a multimedia giant.
But after the Bertelsmann Foundation rejected a deal with America Online in November, Mr. Middelhoff said Mr. Mohn -- who still serves on the foundation's board -- decided in principle to reduce the return he expects.
The new figure hasn't been established, but relaxing the standard will free yet more money for acquisitions, Mr. Middelhoff said, "depending on what dog comes along." Already, Bertelsmann has budgeted at least 20 billion marks -- a little more than $10 billion -- for deal-making in the next two years.
The company wants to deepen its pockets, too, by taking some units public. Likely spinoffs this year are BOL.com, which in just a year has become the No. 2 online bookseller in Europe, and Lycos Europe, of which Bertelsmann owns 25 percent.
European newspapers have speculated that Bertelsmann will sell to the public its 50 percent stake in AOL Europe, but Mr. Middelhoff declined to comment.
"We have a clear strategy. The entire Bertelsmann organization got the wake-up call much earlier than any other media company," he said. "We don't see any reason to face any disadvantage in our style of organization -- as long as we are not sleepy and are aggressive."
 
Working at 'Thomas Speed'
As chief executive since November 1998, Mr. Middelhoff if nothing else lives at the pace he is convinced Bertelsmann must adopt if it is to thrive.
From offices at the company's headquarters in Gutersloh -- a city of 100,000 on the edge of the Teutoburg Forest, about two hours from Dusseldorf -- and his suite in Times Square, he presides over the unwieldy conglomerate through travel so constant that he sometimes wakes up wondering where he is. His international e-mail messages number about 120 a day; the father of five, he also uses the keyboard to keep in touch with his older children.
When a hit-and-run skier smashed into him in the Italian Alps a few weeks ago, Mr. Middelhoff continued his Paris-to-New York flights with a broken collarbone. Some Bertelsmann executives say he roams the globe at "Thomas speed," his own personal time warp, but others worry that he's charging ahead too quickly, leaving stunned underlings trailing behind.
He was chief executive-designate when Bertelsmann acquired Random House early in 1998, solidifying its position as the largest English-language publisher in the world. Later that year, Mr. Middelhoff struck a deal to become partners in an online bookselling venture in the United States with Barnes & Noble, after briefly flirting with Amazon.com when his negotiations with Leonard Riggio, Barnes & Noble's chief executive, grew testy.
Recently, he has been in the thick of negotiations to establish a joint venture combining the titans of the book club business, Time Warner's Book-of-the-Month Club and Bertelsmann's Doubleday Direct.
Underlying the spate of deal-making has been Mr. Middelhoff's calculated strategy to drive Bertelsmann deeper into digital territory.
The Barnesandnoble.com partnership, for example, enabled Bertelsmann to scrap expensive plans to start its own online bookstore in the United States; the company was also able to cash in when part of the electronic bookseller was spun off in a public stock offering. But the alliance has not been a perfect match. The stock has drifted, and top officials, including the chief executive, have swiftly shuffled in and out.
Along with its investments in AOL Europe and Lycos Europe, Bertelsmann has created a string of electronic bookstores called BOL.com, with Web sites individually tailored for various European countries. Recently, the company joined with Seagram to create Getmusic.com, a Web site that promotes artists from the two companies' labels and sells CD's online. And in Germany, Bertelsmann created an electronic auction house called Andsold in just three months last year.
Two weeks ago, "I would have said Bertelsmann was clearly ahead of the pack with respect to the Internet," said Peter A. Kreisky, a consultant for Mercer Management Consulting, which advises media and entertainment companies. "Bertelsmann got it very early on, because of Thomas Middelhoff and only because of Thomas Middelhoff. He integrated the Internet as an intrinsic part of every single business."
But with Mr. Middelhoff's departure from the America Online board and the transformation of AOL into a media rival, Bertelsmann may have lost something indefinable, but crucial, Mr. Kreisky said.
"What AOL did was give them a seat at the front of the train, able to really view the track ahead without any filtering," he said. "They were standing next to the driver, and they could see very clearly."
 
Between Old and New
On a cool autumn night in Berlin, Mr. Middelhoff reveled in the new media order. His driver and Mercedes awaited him outside a painfully hip party at Dresdner Bahnhof, a train station transformed for the evening with dangling chandeliers, shag rugs and hooded male and female dancers in ice-blue leotards.
He was almost giddy that night as he mingled among 1,200 guests celebrating Bertelsmann's public stock offering for Pixelpark, a Web site designer it had acquired. "This is my world!" he exulted as he left the party. "And do you understand that I like this world?"
Mr. Middelhoff had reached this universe on a career track as swift as the pace he prizes in business.
In 1997, the Bertelsmann board skipped over a generation of older executives and anointed him the company's next chief executive. Eleven years earlier, he had signed on as a managing assistant at the Mohndruck Graphische printing plant in Gutersloh. He quickly rose to become the head of the Elsnerdruck printing plant, where, in an act that has become company legend, he fired his predecessor, who was planning to help him in the transition.
Mr. Middelhoff's roots are in Westphalia, in northern Germany, a rural area once known for its thriving textile factories. Battered by competition with Asian plants, many of those factories closed in the 1980's, including his father's business; his mother is a physician-turned-homemaker.
Early in his career, he drew the attention of top executives; by the late 1980's, some German followers of the company said, his name appeared on a list of 10 potential successors to Mark Wossner, the chief executive since 1983.
By all accounts, he assured his rise in the leadership through a risky bet in 1995, early in the digital epoch.
Instead of investing with Microsoft to start an online service in Europe, Mr. Middelhoff negotiated a deal to acquire a 14.9 percent stake in America Online. The Bertelsmann board balked at that deal -- some in the company derisively referred to it as "Thomas's little toy," giving Mr. Middelhoff a taste of what it was like to lead a company in new directions. Eventually, Bertelsmann bought a 5 percent stake, an investment that rocketed in value and gave Mr. Middelhoff a shiny Internet glow. The 50-50 joint venture in Europe followed.
Two years later, in designating him for the top job, the board passed over a more seasoned executive, Michael Dornemann, now chairman of BMG Entertainment, the company's music business. Like Mr. Wossner before him, Mr. Middelhoff was relatively young and could lead Bertelsmann for up to 15 years before reaching 60, the company's mandatory retirement age.
But it was also Mr. Middelhoff's more open and engaging manner that the leadership found appealing. The board was looking for someone who could cultivate contacts with international business leaders.
Mr. Middelhoff "came across as the great communicator and visionary," recalled Rudi Gassner, 57, the chief executive of Bertelsmann's BMG Entertainment International, who is retiring tomorrow. "People talk about his American spirit, because without fear or reservation he approaches people."
As chief executive, Mr. Middelhoff has consciously set out to make contacts with influential people and celebrities in the United States. He has flown to Kennebunkport, Me., for lunch with former President George Bush, a Random House author. He regularly sends gifts of CD's, current books and hand-signed notes to prominent business leaders.
His free spirit has not always been well received, Mr. Gassner said. "Most of the traditional employees are kind of stunned and don't really know how to deal with it, especially if they are older," he said. "One of the things that I've been saying to Thomas is that when you charge ahead the way he is, don't forget to look behind, because you may not have your troops behind."
But some analysts wonder if Mr. Middelhoff is himself too sluggish -- especially in Europe -- despite his mantra that speed equals survival.
"Bertelsmann is rather weak," said Carsten Schmidt, an analyst for Forrester Research in Amsterdam. "They've done too much in too many directions, and they're always late." Though Andsold was created quickly, he noted that it nonetheless was the fourth player in its market; likewise, Bertelsmann's electronic bookstore trailed -- and copied -- Amazon.com in Britain.
Bertelsmann, Mr. Schmidt said, remains secure in its partnership with America Online in Europe, because "Time Warner's content doesn't match Bertelsmann's European offerings." At the same time, he and other analysts still expect that Bertelsmann may have to find a partner in the United States to secure its access to digital consumers.
The deals are sure to keep coming. On Friday, Mannesmann, Germany's biggest cellular company, confirmed talks with Bertelsmann and American Online to join in their European venture -- a link that would give Bertelsmann another channel to media consumers.
 
Changing the Culture
As he faces these challenges, Mr. Middelhoff continues to try to tweak the Bertelsmann culture -- always with the ultimate aim of moving faster. He has eliminated the cherished academic titles that people used in addressing one another around the German headquarters, replacing "Dr." with a simple "Herr" or "Frau." The formality created walls and probably stifled challenges from lower-level employees, he said.
Inevitably, there have been tensions between the old and new generations that have tested even the close relationship between Mr. Middelhoff and Mr. Wossner, now the chairman of the Bertelsmann Foundation, with offices across a swan lake from Mr. Middelhoff's in Gutersloh.
Mr. Wossner sent shudders through the company with his candid remarks in an article last summer in Der Spiegel. In particular, he was irritated with Mr. Middelhoff's comments at a news conference in which he used a German term for gnat waste to describe a television station that the company sold.
The tensions were smoothed over by the fall, but even then the two men could not agree on a description of their complicated relationship. Mr. Middelhoff had a habit of saying that Mr. Wossner, 60 and silver-haired, was akin to his father. In an interview, Mr. Wossner was quick to describe himself as Mr. Middelhoff's "elder brother."
Whatever Mr. Wossner's qualms, he publicly supports Mr. Middelhoff. "You have to be the right man in your time," he said. "And Thomas is without a doubt the man that is exactly right for the company that we have become."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas Middelhoff sees Bertelsmann not as an ocean liner, but as a fleet of fast frigates. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times); Although Bertelsmann has extended its reach globally, it still has its headquarters in Gutersloh, above, a small city in northwestern Germany. (Mark Simon for The New York Times)(pg. 14); There was no deal with AOL, but Thomas Middelhoff, Bertelsmann's chief, is moving on. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "A Global Media Giant"
From its roots as a printer of hymnals, Bertelsmann has grown into one of the world's largest media companies. But as its competitors merge-and technology companies like America Online move onto its turf-Bertelsmann is slipping in the rankings and making a flurry of deals to keep up with the pack. (Bertelsmann, its subsidiaries and companies which it has a relationship are highlighted in each industry ranking.)
 
Charts list the industry leaders in several media categories, and shows Bertelsmann's interests in each.
(Sources: Bertelsmann; Subtext; International Federation of the Periodical Press; Music & Copyright; Media Metrix; International Data Corp.; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (85%); VIA (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (80%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (80%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BERTELSMANN AG AOL INC (85%); EMI GROUP LTD (80%); VIACOM INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: BERTELSMANN AG

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); PUBLISHING (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (67%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (62%); BOOK PUBLISHING (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); 

PERSON: CARVAJAL, DOREEN; MIDDELHOFF, THOMAS THOMAS MIDDELHOFF (94%); STEVE CASE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



757 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Tuesday's Big Test: How Deep in the Heart of Taxes

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FOR decades, it has been an article of faith among Republicans that no issue is more politically powerful or truer to their ideology than tax cuts.
Now that orthodoxy faces one of its strongest challenges since Ronald Reagan brought the supply-side revolution to the G.O.P. The challenger is Senator John McCain of Arizona, who has audaciously taken Gov. George W. Bush of Texas to task at the beginning of the primary season for the big tax cut plan that is the centerpiece of his presidential campaign. 
 With the federal budget surplus swelling, taxes will no doubt remain an issue to some degree throughout the election. But the outcome of the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday could go a long way toward determining whether the traditional Republican message about cutting taxes has lost its potency in an era when voters seem inclined to use the current prosperity to address expensive long-term problems.
Casting himself as a true believer in tax cuts, Mr. Bush has not flinched. His differences with Mr. McCain, he said last week as he received the endorsement of Jack F. Kemp, one of the original supply-siders, pose "a defining choice for our party." Mr. Kemp said the Arizona senator was "turning the party away from Ronald Reagan and back to Herbert Hoover."
For his part, Mr. McCain has continued to attack Mr. Bush's plan in terms redolent of both old-style fiscal conservatism and Democratic class warfare. He calls the proposed cuts too big, too tilted to the wealthy, too little focused on debt reduction and blind to the challenges of shoring up Social Security and Medicare.
Asked during a debate last week whether his approach was too much like President Clinton's to suit Republican voters, Mr. McCain did not blush, replying that perhaps Mr. Clinton's plan "looks too much like mine."
Of course, Mr. McCain's appeal in the famously anti-tax precincts of New Hampshire may derive more from his war hero background and his blunt-talking approach than from his stand on fiscal policy. But should he defeat Mr. Bush in the first head-to-head matchup between the two leading Republicans, it will clearly raise questions about the Texan's reliance on a tax-cutting message to carry him through the primaries, much less the general election.
Mr. McCain's approach, which includes smaller tax cuts than Mr. Bush's, is framed by the combination of current prosperity and long-term national problems. Few voters seem to be clamoring for tax cuts of a few hundred or even a few thousand dollars a year now because most are feeling flush; on Tuesday, as New Hampshire votes, the nation's current economic expansion will officially become the longest on record.
AT the same time, voters seem to have a visceral feeling that they should be planning now to ensure that the country's finances are put in order before the inevitable downturn. Support for reducing the national debt is far stronger than either party had expected, and poll respondents regularly say their top priorities are putting Social Security and Medicare on sound footing for the retirement of the baby boom generation.
These developments have given Mr. McCain an opportunity to redefine what it means to be a conservative in an age of plenty.
"I think it's conservative in good times to put money into Social Security," Mr. McCain said. "It's conservative to pay down the debt. And it's conservative, clearly, to try to save Medicare and at the same time give these tax breaks to American families."
Mr. McCain's strategy has set off a heated debate among Republican strategists and conservative thinkers. Most of them are more dedicated to tax cuts than ever, especially at a time when the federal surplus appears to be growing to astonishing heights. Last week the Congressional Budget Office projected that the surplus outside the Social Security system could reach $1.9 trillion over the next decade, nearly twice as much as projected six months ago.
True supply-siders say that tax cuts will not only keep the economy healthy, but that returning excess revenue to the taxpayers is the best way to stop the relentless growth of government. They point out that when the issue is framed as a choice between letting politicians spend the surplus and letting individuals choose how to use their own money, tax cuts get strong support in polls.
"The key is to link it to wasteful Washington spending," said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster. "That's when it becomes not only good policy but good politics."
BUT other Republicans, even some who consider themselves supply-siders and support aggressive tax-cutting efforts, acknowledge that Mr. McCain may have tapped into a new politics of prosperity.
"In a time of prosperity such as now, the one thing people are more concerned about than anything else is not rocking the boat," said Bruce Bartlett, a former Treasury Department official in the Reagan and Bush administrations, "and they are deeply skeptical of any ideas that seem large because large is seen as risky."
"Rightly or wrongly, people have bought into the idea that big tax cuts are risky," Mr. Bartlett said. "At the same time, people know instinctively that the good times won't last forever. They view paying down the debt as putting money in the national piggy bank and as the way you deal with the problems of the future."
The wild card in the debate could be the surplus. Mr. McCain has already dismissed the estimates as guesses that should not be the basis for policy-making. And Democrats say the projections of a $1.9 trillion surplus are a fantasy because they are built on the unrealistic assumption that Congress will cut spending for the next decade.
Still, the numbers give Mr. Bush some measure of protection against charges that his $483 billion, five-year tax cut plan would be fiscally irresponsible. Even if he loses the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday, he will almost certainly stick to his message as the campaign leaves the state (where independents can vote in the primaries) for more traditional conservative battlegrounds.
Nonetheless, the debate on the campaign trail is beginning to percolate among Republicans in Congress. Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois has made eliminating the national debt one of the party's main goals, even as he has de-emphasized efforts to pass a sweeping tax cut, at least for now.
Republicans have not failed to recognize reality. With Mr. Kemp at his side, Bob Dole ran for president in 1996 on a tax-cutting platform and was beaten soundly by President Clinton. Mr. Clinton has subsequently blocked Republican tax-cutting efforts in Congress and tried to make Democrats the party of fiscal discipline.
But Republican analysts are clearly concerned about the potential for a debilitating split within the party if Mr. McCain's strategy succeeds.
"When a Republican uses the rhetoric of Democratic criticism against the G.O.P.," Mr. Luntz said, "that's when you know you have an electoral problem."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Republicans are divided over whether voters want tax cuts in a prosperous election year. (Gary Landsman/The Stock Market)
 
Chart: "It Depends on How You Ask ..."
The public's desire for tax cuts can be hard to measure. Pollsters asking what should be done with the nation's budget surplus got different results depending on the specifics of the question.
 
THE QUESTION
President Clinton has proposed setting aside approximately two-thirds of an expected budget surplus to fix the Social Security system. What do you think the leaders in Washington should do with the remainder of the surplus? ...
 
Variation 1
... Should the money be used for a tax cut, or should it be used to fund new government programs?
 
TAX CUT -- 60%
NEW PROGRAMS -- 25
OTHER PURPOSES -- 11
DON'T KNOW -- 4
 
Variation 2
... Should the money be used for a tax cut, or should it be spent on programs for education, the environment, health care, crime-fighting and military defense?
 
TAX CUT -- 22%
PROGRAMS -- 69
OTHER PURPOSES -- 6
DON'T KNOW -- 3
 
(Source: Pew Research Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRIMARIES; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MEDICARE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%); 

PERSON: MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



758 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Now the Ancient Ways Are Less Mysterious

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN 

 BODY:
EACH June for at least the last four centuries, farmers in 12 mountain villages in Peru and Bolivia follow a ritual that Westerners might think odd, if not crazy. Late each night for about a week, the farmers observe the stars in the Pleiades constellation, which is low on the horizon to the northeast. If they appear big and bright, the farmers know to plant their potato crop at the usual time four months later. But if the stars are dim, the usual planting will be delayed for several weeks.
Now Western researchers have applied the scientific method to this seeming madness. Poring over reams of satellite data on cloud cover and water vapor, Benjamin S. Orlove, an anthropologist at the University of California at Davis, and colleagues have discovered that these star-gazing farmers are accurate long-range weather forecasters. High wisps of cirrus clouds dim the stars in El Nino years, which brings reduced rainfall to that part of the Andes. In such drought conditions, it makes sense to plant potatoes as late as possible. 
 Professor Orlove's work, which was reported this month in the British journal Nature, is just the latest example of indigenous or traditional knowledge that has been found to have a sound scientific basis. In agriculture, nutrition, medicine and other fields, modern research is showing why people maintain their traditions.
Take the Masai of East Africa, who are famous for the kind of high-fat diet, rich in meat and milk, that would make a cardiologist swoon. Timothy Johns, a professor at McGill University in Montreal and director of the Center for Indigenous Peoples' Nutrition and Environment, has long studied the Masai to determine how they stay healthy.
The Masai add the roots and barks of certain plants, including a species of acacia high in antioxidants, Professor Johns said. They also chew a natural gum, related to myrrh, that helps to break down fats.
"It's not a magic bullet protecting the Masai against heart disease," he said. "But there is a benefit from what they are doing."
In a 1998 study, two Cornell University researchers analyzed the spices used in 36 countries and found a correlation between average temperature and cooking with spices like cumin, turmeric, ginger and chili peppers, all of which have antimicrobial properties. The hotter the climate, the hotter the food -- in part, at least, to keep it from spoiling.
Sometimes, however, the benefits of traditional knowledge are not so obvious to those outside the culture. In Bali in the 1970's, the Indonesian government, persuaded by international advocates of the "green revolution," forced rice farmers adopt new growing schemes. Among other things, the farmers were made to stop their centuries-old ritual of meeting in small groups at a series of water temples set at the forks of rivers, to negotiate seasonal schedules for flooding their paddies.
The new techniques resulted in disaster. Farmers were pressured to plant as often as possible. With little coordination of irrigation, water shortages and pest infestation were the norm.
AT about this time, J. Stephen Lansing, an American anthropologist, began to study the water temples. What he found, which was supported later by computer modeling, was that the old system was quite sophisticated and efficient, encouraging cooperation among thousands of farmers. Water was shared and controlled through a process involving reciprocal altruism.
"Everybody gets more rice and variation in harvest disappears, so there's no reason to be envious of your neighbors," said Professor Lansing, who now teaches at the University of Arizona. "It's a bottom-up system of management that's worked very well." The green revolution, he added, "was very much top down." The traditional system has been re-established.
Professor Orlove has studied similar traditional resource management around Lake Titicaca, on the border between Bolivia and Peru. A distinctive feature of the lake is the reeds growing in its shallows. The people around the lake use them for rafts and livestock feed, among other things.
"They are a major component of the household economy," said Professor Orlove. The residents replant the reeds, which also serve as a spawning ground for some of the 22 species of fish that are unique to the lake.
BUT indigenous knowledge can be faulty. "Traditional people sometimes get things right, and sometimes get them wrong," said Alan Fiske, a psychological anthropologist at the University of California at Los Angeles. "Some things people do are bad for them." Other anthropologists have challenged the notion that all indigenous groups have somehow developed a blissful oneness with their world.
The problem, Professor Fiske noted, is that verifying traditional knowledge is not easy. The scientific method can be expensive, and data can be difficult to obtain. Professor Orlove's research on the potato farmers would have been impossible even 10 years ago, because the type of satellite data he needed did not exist.
There may be a shortage of data, but there's no shortage of traditional knowledge that awaits possible confirmation by science. James Lynch, an American scientist who has spent the past two decades helping Costa Rican farmers, said he has learned from them the importance of timing. A tree cut down during a new moon, he said, will quickly be ravaged by the insects, while one felled several days before a full moon will stay free of termites for years.
Mr. Lynch now follows the practice. "But I've never seen any scientific study to back it up," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Men dancing during the five-day feast celebrating the end of the harvest season at Cachilaya, Bolivia, near the shores of Lake Titicaca. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOLIVIA (94%); PERU (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (78%); CANADA (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (54%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (54%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA; PERU; BOLIVIA (94%); PERU (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (78%); CANADA (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (54%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (54%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; WEATHER; FARMERS; CULTURE; RESEARCH SPICE FARMING (90%); WEATHER (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); NUTRITION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TRENDS (87%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); POTATO FARMING (78%); DROUGHT (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); RICE FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); CARDIOLOGY (75%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EL NINO & LA NINA (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); OILS & FATS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); HEART DISEASE (64%); RIVERS (61%); 

PERSON: FOUNTAIN, HENRY; ORLOVE, BENJAMIN C (PROF) BENJAMIN S ORLOVE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



759 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: The Shadow;
The Haunting of the Hustings

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: NASHUA, N.H.

 BODY:
AFTER securing first place in the Iowa caucuses last Monday night, an ebullient Gov. George W. Bush proclaimed "the beginning of the end of the Clinton era." But three evenings later there was a resurgent Bill Clinton before the nation, using his last, and longest, State of the Union address to frame the 2000 campaign with an expansive, activist agenda designed to appeal to the great American middle.
The Clinton era will end, as all political moments must, but as this past week demonstrated, that time has not yet come. In truth, Mr. Clinton's influence pervades this presidential race. He has forced the main candidates into a delicate balancing act: running against the president's scandalous persona while hewing closely to the political center he defined through seven turbulent years in office. 
 Just listen to what the candidates here are saying.
Mr. Bush reaches out to those "weary of polls and posturing," but his very self-definition as a "compassionate conservative" signals that he will fight to keep a safe distance from the fire-breathing House conservatives, once led by Newt Gingrich, whom Mr. Clinton has soundly defeated.
Mr. Bush's chief rival, John McCain, fervently promises audiences that "I will never lie to you," but puts forward a plan for tax cuts and Social Security that Mr. Clinton himself might have written. Asked at the G.O.P. debate last week whether his plan looks like Mr. Clinton's, he could only huff, "Well, I think President Clinton's looks too much like mine."
In the Democratic race, Bill Bradley talks of being as "straight as I can possibly be" and then calls for ambitious domestic programs only to see Mr. Clinton steal his thunder Thursday night by calling for major new initiatives on everything from health care to education to poverty.
Vice President Al Gore, meanwhile, began his campaign with pointed comments about the need for character in high office, explicitly seeking to distance himself from Mr. Clinton. But he has abruptly reversed field and begun boasting about the Clinton-Gore economic record. Last Thursday, he was once more in his familiar place nodding as Mr. Clinton called on Congress to "build the more perfect union of our founders' dreams,"and trying not to smile as his boss repeatedly heaped praise upon him.
The political gyrations of the candidates only mirror the ambivalence of the nation. Voters here, still numbed by last year's impeachment crisis, sometimes come very close to begging the new crop of presidential candidates not to behave like Mr. Clinton.
"Don't ever embarrass us," Bob Elliott, a 67-year-old retired teacher, told Mr. McCain at a town hall meeting in Salem last week. "When you go to Washington you've got to assume the vows of the priesthood of being a president. Now we don't expect you to be celibate but we do expect you to be faithful."
YET at the same time, the nation embraces Mr. Clinton's view of government. A CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll taken earlier this month found that 50 percent of voters wanted to continue Mr. Clinton's policies. Only 10 percent wanted a more liberal approach to government. And 33 percent wanted more conservative policies. This is a remarkable rating for a president entering his eighth year, eclipsing even Ronald Reagan in his final year.
This is a far cry from the "Clinton fatigue" political commentators were talking about just a few weeks ago. Al From, head of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council and one of the Democratic strategists who helped Mr. Clinton frame his centrist appeal, says the election is not about searching for the anti-Clinton at all. Rather, it is about "who can give us Clinton's third term?" For no matter how much he disgraced himself, Mr. Clinton does seem to have made good on his second-term pledge to find the "vital American center."
Republicans protest that it was they who forced Mr. Clinton to the center when they won control of Congress in 1994 and pushed him to agree to a balanced budget and to overhaul welfare. "Fundamentally it's been him hijacking our signature issues," said Mike Murphy, a Republican strategist affiliated with the McCain campaign.
But Mr. Clinton's accommodations were strategic, blunting the issues Republicans had long used against the Democrats and shifting the political debate to health care, education, Social Security and Medicare -- terrain long favorable to Democrats.
The president did it again last Thursday night, mapping the trail for his fellow Democrats as he set forth an agenda that included gun safety, an increase in the minimum wage and a "21st century revolution" in education.
And in his call for a $350 billion tax cut he once again played the political cat-burglar, filching the Republicans' idea of eliminating the so-called marriage penalty, which causes some married couples to pay more taxes than if they were single.
Political strategists differ sharply over which side of Mr. Clinton will dominate the coming election: his personality or his programs. Steve Duprey, the New Hampshire Republican chairman, insists that the nation wants Mr. Clinton off the stage. "People up here are very tired of the Clinton administration," he said. "I think that's one of Gore's biggest difficulties."
But Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster, says that the public is comfortable with Mr. Clinton's policies and that Mr. Bush will prove vulnerable because of his call for a sweeping $483 billion tax cut over five years, which Democrats -- and even Mr. McCain -- charge favors the wealthy.
"Budgets increasingly have become the way of defining political philosophy," Mr. Garin said. "And where Clinton has beat the Republicans fairly consistently is on the question of priorities. And a Bush budget reflects a very different philosophy than what Clinton and the Democrats represent."
The president, for example, has used issues like paying down the national debt, balancing the budget and saving Social Security to steal the mantle of fiscal conservatism from the Republicans. On Thursday night the Republicans often sat poker-faced as Democrats rose and cheered, while the president set out his program for the year 2000. Even before the speech, G.O.P. leaders had denounced Mr. Clinton as a profligate spender.
"If we enacted all the new programs the president has talked about, we'd spend just about the entire surplus on bigger and more expensive government," said Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, an Illinois Republican.
BUT Congressional Republicans have already fled their own $792 billion tax cut package, which Mr. Clinton successfully defeated by casting as a threat to Social Security and debt reduction. And both Republican presidential and Congressional candidates are being called on to put forth their own plans for health care reform, patient rights and education because the president has made the case for them so effectively with voters.
Somebody recently remarked that while Mr. Clinton may be a lame duck, he's still flapping his wings. So don't be surprised if, come November, the G.O.P. finds itself scrambling once again in reaction to a master politician's valedictory agenda.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The shadow of Air Force One, as the president flies over San Jose, Calif. (Paul J. Richards/Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (67%); NASHUA, NH, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (67%); NASHUA, NH, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SCANDALS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); ETHICS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); BRADLEY, BILL; MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); WILLIAM E MITCHELL (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); AL GORE (77%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



760 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
One For the Money

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland

 BODY:
Maybe it's a sign of maturity; or maybe it's just that typical American obliviousness to the outside world. Whatever the reason, the United States has an admirably relaxed attitude toward the international value of its currency. When the dollar slides against the yen, we do not take it as a slur on our national virility. Indeed, the strong yen mainly has the Japanese worried, because they fear -- rightly -- that it may price their goods out of world markets and make their now-you-see-it-now-you-don't economic recovery vanish into thin air.
As far as the economic fundamentals are concerned, euroland -- the group of 11 European nations that has adopted the euro as its common currency -- ought to be as blase about currency fluctuations as we are. Like the United States, euroland is a huge economic area, mainly trading with itself; if its exchange rate fluctuates, as exchange rates will, why should it be concerned? 
 In fact, however, the decline of the euro since it was introduced at the beginning of last year -- it was worth $1.17 at the outset, and finally fell below $1 last week -- has led to much wailing and rending of garments.
In strict economic terms this dismay is not warranted. Serious students of the new currency (eurologists?) will tell you that the true test of its success is internal: does it deliver the promised unification of the European market? Does it enhance the economic stability of the euroland nations? And for what it is worth, things are off to an O.K. if not great start: the first year of European Monetary Union has actually been a fairly prosperous one for most E.M.U. members. It's just that the U.S. is doing even better -- and so the euro has been falling against the dollar.
The reason this matters is that although the serious economic case for E.M.U. has always been internal and long term, some euro enthusiasts -- the French in particular -- have always had a less creditable agenda: the desire to stick one in America's eye, to take the dollar down a peg. Over the long years of discussion that led to E.M.U., I have heard over and over again the claim that by challenging the dominance of the dollar, the euro will somehow lead to a large transfer of wealth and power across the Atlantic.
This was and is nonsense: no doubt in the year 2005 Russian gangsters will make payoffs with 100-euro notes instead of $100 bills, but so what? Though it may be foolish, however, this hidden agenda means that many Europeans have a predisposition to judge monetary union not by the performance of the European economy, but by the euro's competitive status against the dollar. And this in turn means that the latest slide in the euro presents a dilemma for the barely year-old European Central Bank: does it defend the euro's prestige -- which it can only do by putting its fundamental goals at risk? Or does it stand by its principles, let the exchange rate decline and live with the resulting embarrassment?
Up until last week, the E.C.B. was playing a dangerous game, trying to have it both ways. Officially it had no target value for the euro-dollar exchange rate. But repeated statements by E.C.B. officials that they regarded their currency as undervalued were taken by markets as a strong hint that the euro would not be allowed to fall below "parity." And this hint itself supported the euro: whenever the exchange rate fell close to $1 (and it has in fact spent most of the last few months hovering just barely above parity), speculators would buy the currency, figuring that it could go up but not down.
Now the game is up. The only effective way to strengthen the euro now is to raise interest rates -- and thereby threaten to undermine the growth of the real European economy. On the other hand, if the E.C.B. does not raise rates, speculators may declare open season on the currency and at least temporarily drive it still lower.
The right thing to do is nothing. There will be some jeering headlines, but a month or two later people will look around, see that Europe is still standing and forget about the whole thing. The question is, Does the E.C.B. have the courage not to act? We'll soon find out. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (92%); EURO (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); TRENDS (67%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



761 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: The World;
'Don Kohleone' and Germany Face Off

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN

 BODY:
HELMUT KOHL has a new nickname: "Don Kohleone." And no wonder. First the former German chancellor said he had always regarded "close personal trust" as the most important thing in political life. Then he placed his "honor" above the law. Finally he resorted to "omerta," the Sicilian word for silence, refusing to reveal the names of people who secretly gave large sums of money to his Christian Democratic Union.
But it is not just Mr. Kohl's behavior that has summoned Italy into the midst of Germany's political crisis. The difficulties of German Christian Democracy inevitably invite comparison with those of Italy's Democrazia Cristiana, a party whose utter dominance of postwar Italian politics was matched only by the unutterable speed of its disintegration in the early 1990's. 
 The similarities are intriguing. Both parties were founded in the immediate postwar years with strong American support to represent the center-right and act as a bulwark against communism. Italy's Communists were within, the strongest such party in Western Europe; Germany's Communists were without, across the border in East Germany. Neither could be allowed to defeat Washington's efforts to forge a Western alliance.
Both parties presided over postwar economic miracles, underwritten by the Marshall Plan, which were intended to ensure political and social stability. "No Experiments" and "Affluence for Everybody" were the famous slogans with which Germany's Christian Democrats marched to victory after victory. Italy's Christian Democratic Party, octopuslike, famously dragged every non-Communist political grouping toward its amorphous heart in order to make itself the unavoidable epicenter of power.
Then, abruptly, the two parties triumphed in their central missions. The cold war was won. Italian communism, long since westernized, ceased to be a threat and Mr. Kohl's party presided over the disappearance of Germany's communist state and its absorption into a unified nation.
"Reunification was the ultimate raison d'etre of the Christian Democratic Union," said Claus Leggewie, a political analyst. "So it is legitimate to ask why the party should have any more reason for survival after unity than Italian Christian Democracy after the taming of Italian communism."
Certainly, Mr. Kohl's party has been doing a fair job of trying to put itself out of business. Article 21 of the German Constitution, to which Mr. Kohl swore allegiance, is clear on the subject of political parties: "Their internal organization must conform to democratic principles. They must publicly account for the sources of their funds." But Mr. Kohl continues to refuse to identify large donors to whom he says he promised anonymity.
There can be no doubt that the discovery of a system of secret funding for Mr. Kohl's party involving tens of millions of dollars has shaken Germany, but not to the degree that the wave of scandals known as "Tangentopoli" rocked Italy and led to the downfall of Italy's Christian Democrats.
"Our historic merit was to keep Italy within Western democracy and face down the largest Communist party in Europe," said Mino Martinazzoli, a former Christian Democratic defense minister in Italy and the man who ultimately dissolved the party in 1994. "But our merit was also our failing, because once our historic role was over, it became apparent how absolutely our stranglehold on power had corrupted us. There could be no political change, and so we became a party above the law."
That has not been the case in Germany, where the Christian Democrats have governed for most of the postwar years, but by no means all of them. The Social Democrats also governed, notably from 1969 to 1982. Moreover, the corruption thus far uncovered in Germany is scarcely comparable to the system put in place by Democrazia Cristiana.
The Italian system involved huge bribes or kickbacks on every public contract in northern Italy, and the purchase of votes in the south through the delivery of money to well-placed "friends," some of them with evident ties to the Mafia. In this way, corruption was raised to a method of government as standard as tax-collection.
"Italian Christian Democracy was not just corrupt in the sense that corruption was a by-product of power," said Patrick McCarthy, dean of the Johns Hopkins Center for European Studies in Bologna. "Their corruption was power. They put in place a highly organized method of corruption that was systemic. I do not see that in Germany, at least not at this stage."
ANOTHER basic difference is that the American interest in sustaining the Italian party once the cold war was won was limited, whereas American concern over a possible disintegration of German Christian Democracy is intense. "Germany absolutely needs Christian Democracy," said one senior official here.
The party has played an essential role in reining in more nationalist or extremist right-wing German tendencies, and that role is by no means exhausted. The rise of Jorg Haider and his Freedom Party in Austria, offering a simmering brew of anti-immigrant rhetoric, has illustrated that Europe's combination of aging populations and high unemployment may offer plenty of opportunity for rightward drift.
All of Germany's political parties -- including Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's Social Democrats -- are aware of this. The rise of Gianfranco Fini's post-Fascist party in Italy after the collapse of Christian Democracy there was one thing; it would be altogether another in a German guise. It is certain that a great deal of energy, within Germany and in Washington, will be focused on ensuring that the party weathers the storm.
In the end, its success will depend on its ability to change faster than Italian Christian Democracy. A new generation of leaders is certainly needed, as well as a recognition that stability is not the only political virtue in a post-Cold War world.New party laws are needed to bring greater transparency to financing and ensure that nobody can remain party chairman, as Mr. Kohl did, for a quarter-century. Germany's restive mood may in the end demand that the office of chancellor -- held by Mr. Kohl for 16 years -- also be limited, perhaps to two four-year terms.
The crisis of German Christian Democracy has become a crisis of Germany's ability to modernize itself. Few wish to envisage that modernization without Mr. Kohl's party, and so it will almost certainly survive.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators in Hamburg protest Helmut Kohl's political slush fund. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (95%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN, GERMANY (57%); 

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (63%); WESTERN EUROPE (63%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (57%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (57%); MARSHALL PLAN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (57%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (57%); MARSHALL PLAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; ITALY; ITALY (95%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN, GERMANY (57%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; FINANCES POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); COLD WAR (77%); ETHICS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); 

PERSON: KOHL, HELMUT; COHEN, ROGER HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (92%); HELMUT KOHL (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



762 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Hot Politics in the Snow

 BODY:
Much about the political scene in New Hampshire is comfortably familiar this year. Buses carrying the main Republican and Democratic contenders and scores of parka-clad reporters grind across a snowy landscape. Candidates used to addressing hundreds or thousands at big-city fund-raisers face pods of school kids and senior citizens in small-town opera houses. The state's television stations are battening on nonstop political ads. In a familiar quadrennial exercise, the staunchly Republican Manchester Union Leader fiercely attacks G.O.P. candidates suspected of being insufficiently right-wing. This year Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, labeled "Governor Smirk" in a front-page editorial on Friday, is getting the treatment.
Somewhat less obvious is the fierce definitional contest being played out before the state's Democratic and Republican voters, not to mention its much-wooed independents, in the run-up to Tuesday's primaries. For the winnowing process is also a multilayered process of sorting for the voters and self-invention on the part of the candidates. The voters signal, by their questions and applause at town-hall meetings, the qualities they will accept or reject in a presidential nominee. The candidates, through their stump performances, must present their political personas even as they try to guess exactly what the voters want this year. It is the open intensity of the process and the combative mix of candidates that has given the 2000 primary election in the Granite State a distinctive flavor. 
 The process of self-invention is most obvious on the Republican side, since the main candidates, Mr. Bush and Senator John McCain, are newcomers to presidential politics, and both are trying to slide toward the middle on their signature issues while giving lip service to Reaganite doctrine. Mr. Bush talks about economic fairness for 22-year-old single mothers and federal aid to education. Mr. McCain rails like an old-time populist against the special interests that finance his party.
But at the definitional level, both men are running against unanswered questions about themselves. New Hampshire voters will decide if Mr. Bush is smart and seasoned enough to be president. They will also judge whether Mr. McCain has depth and stability to match his charm and heroic resume. Neither can ignore the appeal of the undiluted anti-tax rhetoric of Steve Forbes and Alan Keyes as a factor in the voting on Tuesday. But it really is a two-person contest when it comes to who could be a viable national candidate in the general election. The Bush people are subtly urging commentators to look beyond the New Hampshire vote, figuring they can absorb a loss if they have to and grind down Mr. McCain in the later primaries.
The drama on the Democratic side comes from the palpable antipathy between Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey and from the peculiar needs of each candidate. Mr. Bradley needs to show that he has the legs to continue into the later primaries, and Mr. Gore needs to prove that he can stir more devotion than irritation among swing voters. Each man is presenting himself as the true guardian of the Democratic social-welfare tradition. At the level of defining the opponent, their depictions are veering toward mutual destruction.
Vice President Gore portrays the senator as a chronic complainer who cannot distinguish between a policy debate and personal criticism. When Mr. Bradley asserts that Mr. Gore represents "old politics," he wants to be understood as calling Mr. Gore a panderer and a liar. But to date, Mr. Gore has done the greater damage by painting Mr. Bradley as more comfortable with the inner ceremonies of his own personality than with a gritty fight for the presidency. What neither man knows is how much tolerance the public has for their slanging match, a key question for Mr. Bradley since his trailing position may require him to bludgeon Mr. Gore on the Clinton administration fund-raising scandals.
While the personal and ideological intensity of this contest on both the G.O.P. and the Democratic sides may be dispiriting to some voters, we see the competitiveness and the discussion of pressing national issues such as health care and gun control as positives. The real shame is that neither national party has designed a primary system that would allow more states to play host to a week of the kind of riveting political theater now playing in New Hampshire. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN MANCHESTER UNION (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN MANCHESTER UNION (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; EDITORIALS; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (57%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (56%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



763 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Extremism, Without the Virtue

BYLINE: By Tony Judt; Tony Judt is director of the Remarque Institute at New York University.

 BODY:
Political obsessions have their place. The American fixation with Communism, unmodulated by realism or acquaintance, unquestionably contributed to the liberation of millions. If it had been left to Europeans, they might long since have made peace with Communist regimes next door, secure in the knowledge that they were not threatened, their consciences appeased by the inefficiency and cynicism that had replaced the murderous tyranny of earlier decades.
On the sophisticated mental road maps of Western Europe, Communist societies represented dead ends, failed shortcuts to nowhere. But in the moral cartography of anti-Communist America, they occupied an undifferentiated space like that of the oceans on ancient charts: Here be monsters. 
 Communism was indeed monstrous, a dysfunctional inversion of social and human values, the rotten fruit of Western radical ambitions whose passing should be an occasion for undiluted satisfaction. One of Communism's most perverse features was the politicizing of all private choices and the totalitarian insistence that liberalism and capitalism were always and everywhere absolutely evil, that collectivism and Communism were good by definition, that the rights of the individual counted not at all. The claims of politics reigned supreme. In the ideological calculus, doctrinal projects took precedence; personal and familial relations meant nothing.
Dogmatic anti-Communism shares many of these traits. In its curious American incarnation, it has long been the mirror image of its enemy. Everything is once again black and white, merely inverted. Unrestrained capitalism is an unquestioned good, Communist society an undifferentiated evil.
There are no nuances: if Communism is a cruel and unsavory political system, then all human life within that system must be irretrievably polluted. No one in his or her right mind could live or want to live a normal life under a Communist dictator. Accordingly, there is no need to respect the feelings or claims of the citizens of Communist states, since we know (even if they don't) what their true feelings and interests would be, if only they could express them. Indeed it is our duty to feel and act for them -- and against their wishes if necessary. Especially if they are Cuban.
The shameful political exploitation of Elian Gonzalez illustrates the point. A significant segment of the American political class loses its moral bearings and all touch with reality whenever Fidel Castro is mentioned -- a problem that has been with us since 1961.
Commentators who have built public careers endorsing traditional values and decrying political interference in the family find contorted justifications for denying a father the right to his child. It is hinted that the father's failure to come and claim his son reveals his concerns to be politically motivated. But if he were to come, he would doubtless be dismissed (as the grandmothers have been) as Fidel Castro's pawn.
Conventional assumptions about the importance of familiarity and love to a confused and bereaved child are trumped by Disney World and monster trucks. Members of Congress plot to confer instant United States citizenship. Elian Gonzalez is already a Cuban citizen, of course, but the rules and norms of good international behavior can be set aside: Fidel Castro doesn't respect them, so why should we?
This is the sort of thing that gave anti-Communism a bad name. Liberals who want to see the child returned to his father do need to be reminded that Mr. Castro's Cuba is a dictatorship, whose economy has been ruined, whose citizens are not free and whose dissidents are in prison (or long dead).
But it is entirely possible to acknowledge the crimes of Communism and still find humane responses to human dilemmas. Indeed, it ought to be one of the defining characteristics of an open society that we can and do make such difficult distinctions and act upon them -- even (especially) when the outcome is imperfect.
For there is of course a downside to sending Elian Gonzalez back to his father: Mr. Castro will claim victory (albeit in a conflict of our making) and the boy will forgo material goods and life chances. He will also grow up in an unfree society -- though Fidel Castro will not live forever.
But we have no grounds for supposing that he will be personally victimized upon his return. In returning the child, the United States would be doing no more than acting in accordance with its own laws and priorities. Is it prudent to do otherwise? Can we really justify kidnapping a child for his own ideological protection?
The unprepossessing picture of the world's only great power exploiting a private tragedy to score points against a diminutive totalitarian island is a reminder of the humiliating international price we pay for the paranoid streak in our political culture; once again, the world has had a field day at America's expense.
To be sure, we won the cold war and proved that capitalism works. But the West's superiority never lay just in its capacity to make more or bigger toys; we were also supposed to be a better sort of place. That is our birthright. When we set it aside in an eruption of righteous anti-Communist excitement, we sell it very, very cheap.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Jesse Gordon and Natasha Tibbot)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (88%); 

SUBJECT: CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COMMUNISM (THEORY AND PHILOSOPHY) EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); GEOGRAPHY (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, ELIAN; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); JUDT, TONY FIDEL CASTRO (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



764 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 21; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: JANUARY 24-28;
Interest Rate Shuffle Takes Toll on Stocks

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
With short-term interest rates rising last week, it was not surprising to see stocks take it on the chin. By week's end, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks was threatening to finish the month Monday with its worst January decline since 1970.
 What is making stock investors glum is the fear that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates aggressively this year. Analysts expect the Fed to bump short-term rates up a quarter point when it meets this week. 
 But while short-term rates were rising, the yield on long-term bonds fell. Some special factors, including plans by the Treasury to buy back long-term debt with the Federal budget surplus, helped. But confidence in the Fed's ability to fight inflation also played a role.
 Tim Policinski, a money manager at Lincoln Investment Management Inc. in Fort Wayne, Ind., told Bloomberg News on Friday: The Fed is being a watchdog against inflation, and that's good for bonds.
 For the week, the Nasdaq composite lost 8.2 percent, its biggest weekly decline since Aug. 28, 1998, to 3,887. The S.& P. 500 fell 5.6 percent, to 1,360.16, and the Dow Jones industrials dropped 4.6 percent, to 10,738.87. JONATHAN FUERBRINGER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
Walt Disney
nyse: dis
Michael D. Eisner named Robert A. Iger his second-in-command in a reorgan-ization of Disney's top management. Also, Disney plans to narrow the focus of its Web site, Go.com, to enter-tainment and leisure.
Friday's Close: $36.75
Week's Change: +12.21%
EST. '00 P/E: 50.97
 
Coca-Cola
nyse: ko
Coke plans to eliminate 6,000 jobs, or a fifth of its work force, in its biggest reductions ever. It will take an $800 million charge against earnings to cover severance and other costs associated with the revamping.
Friday's Close: $56.9375
Week's Change: -14.86%
EST. '00 P/E: 38.24
 
CompUSA
nyse: cpu
A retail group controlled by Carlos Slim Helu, the Mexican billionaire, is buying the remainder of CompUSA. Mr. Slim's retailing chain, Grupo Sanborns, already owns 14.8 percent of the Dallas-based PC retailer.
Friday's Close: $9.6875
Week's Change: +43.52%
EST. '00 P/E: --
 
Dell Computer
nnm: dell
The top United States computer maker warned that its sales and profits would fall well below expectations for the quarter that ends Monday. It cited short-ages and a slowdown in year-end corporate sales.
Friday's Close: $37.25
Week's Change: -14.86%
EST. '00 P/E: 54.86
 
Healtheon/WebMD
nnm: hlth
Janus Capital's mutual funds agreed to pay $930 million for a 10 percent stake in the company. The Janus fund group will buy 15 million new shares that cannot be traded, at $62 a share.
Friday's Close: $70.00
Week's Change: +17.52%
EST. 00 P/E: --
 
Time Warner
nyse: twx
Time Warner plans to buy control of the music business of the EMI Group and merge it with Warner Music. The deal would create Warner EMI Music, the world's top record company.
Friday's Close: $81.875
Week's Change: -10.15%
EST. '00 P/E: 226.17
 
Polaroid
nyse: prd
The company forecasts single to double-digit sales growth and significant double-digit profit gains for the year. It reported fourth-quarter earnings that met Wall Street expectations.
Friday's Close: $24.00
Week's Change: +25.90%
EST. '00 P/E: 13.33
 
France Telecom
nyse: fte (A.D.R.'s)
France Telecom will pay $4.3 billion to gain control of Global One, the struggling provider of telecommunication services that it started three years ago with Sprint and Deutsche Telekom.
Friday's Close: $133.6875
Week's Change: +4.34%
EST. '00 P/E: 52.24
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (74%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BLOOMBERG LP (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (74%); INDIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN CARLOS SLIM HELU (74%); ROBERT A IGER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



765 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Ecuador's Coup Alerts Region to a Resurgent Military

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Jan. 29

 BODY:
In presidential palaces and defense ministries all across Latin America this week, the same question was being nervously asked in the wake of the military coup here that toppled President Jamil Mahuad: can it happen again somewhere else?
Having made it through the 1990's without a single elected civilian president being overthrown by men in uniform, Latin Americans thought they were finally free of the military adventurism that has plagued the region for two centuries. But Mr. Mahuad's replacement, first by a military-led junta and then by his vice president, suggests that judgment may have been premature and is forcing them into a sobering reassessment. 
 "The political leadership of the continent should not be sleeping too heavy a sleep today," Argentina's leading newspaper, La Nacion, warned in an editorial titled "The Ecuadorean Mirror." "Something is happening in Ecuador and in other countries of Latin America, and the forecast is not for an easy passage."
Coming after the recent rise to power of Hugo Chavez in Venezuela, the coup here indicates that groups of military officers all over Latin America are coming under the spell of an old ideology that is being dressed up in new clothes. Mr. Chavez calls it "Bolivarismo," after the 19th-century liberator Simon Bolivar, and posits a system in which the armed forces bypass traditional political parties seen as corrupt and ally themselves directly with the masses.
During the cold war, in contrast, the armies of Latin America enthusiastically embraced the anti-Communist "doctrine of national security," originally developed by American policy makers, as justification for their repeated intervention in the political process. The result was right-wing military dictatorships in Central America and countries like Argentina, Brazil and Chile and many abuses of human rights.
Not surprisingly, the loudest complaints about the coup here have come from countries that survived the cold war experience and do not want a repetition. "It is not tolerable that when governments face difficult situations or economic crises, all it should take to generate a situation of instability is an uprising by a group of colonels," the foreign minister of Chile, Juan Gabriel Valdes, said.
But the passage of time, combined with the political squabbling and economic hardship that have accompanied the restoration of democratic rule, have softened some of the bitter memories of repressive military rule. "Governments haven't produced results, politically or economically, and people are fed up and looking for an alternative that is functional and coherent," said Michael Shifter, a senior policy analyst at the Inter-American Dialogue in Washington.
A poll taken here just before the coup, for instance, found that the military in Ecuador has reached a level of popularity even higher than the Roman Catholic Church. "Over the past 20 years, the Ecuadorean Armed Forces have maintained a course of action that, in the midst of the chaos the country has lived through, has managed to transform them into the only institution that enjoyed prestige and respect among the citizenry," said Simon Pachano, an analyst at the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences here.
Given that opportunity, the armed forces here and elsewhere have been searching for a new role and model, and the emergence of Mr. Chavez has been fortuitous for them. His repeated citation of Bolivar's pan-American vision and the nationalist and populist regime he has installed in Venezuela resonate deeply, both among frustrated and idealistic junior military officers and left-wing politicians who have been shut out of power.
Echoing Mr. Chavez, the colonels who launched Ecuador's coup offered a classic populist program. They presented themselves as protectors of a downtrodden Indian minority, reformers who would satisfy unmet demands for social justice and patriots who had suffered along with ordinary Ecuadoreans at the hands of a corrupt and incompetent political elite.
Even before last week's coup, diplomats here and in Colombia were acknowledging the existence of a "Chavista" faction within the military. Indeed, one of the colonels who was involved in the seizure of Congress here on Jan. 21 cited Mr. Chavez's pan-American ideals in a letter he made public after he sought political asylum in the Venezuelan Consulate in Guayaquil.
In the document, Lt. Col. Guillermo Pacheco Perez proclaimed his identification with "the cause of Bolivarian liberation" and the "ultra-free Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela." His goal, he said, was "to refound a New Republic that permanently marginalizes all that has swept us away to institutional putrefaction and the servitude that Bolivar repudiated."
Significantly, Venezuela has been the only country to break ranks and not speak out against the coup here. On his weekly radio program, Mr. Chavez, himself a former army colonel and paratrooper who led a failed coup attempt in 1992, not only condoned the rebellion, but sounded downright sympathetic to its leaders and their goals and tactics.
"I saw 25,000 Indians asking for their rights, and I saw military units supporting them," Mr. Chavez, who was elected to office in December 1998 after a prison term, said approvingly. "Who are we to judge the people of Ecuador?" he asked, adding that, "We cannot condemn people when they take to the streets."
On Wednesday, the Venezuelan government approved the restoration to active duty of about 200 officers who took part in Mr. Chavez's 1992 coup attempt and were cashiered as punishment, an action that raised new doubts about its commitment to democratic principles. "Along with Ecuador's coup, that sends exactly the wrong message to every potential military conspirator in every barracks in the continent," a Latin American ambassador here complained.
Here, last week's breakdown of the political order has been portrayed as a victory for constitutional rule, with Gen. Carlos Mendoza, the armed forces commander who briefly led a three-man junta before stepping aside for Vice President Gustavo Noboa, being praised by the new minister of the interior for "sacrificing a brilliant career so the world would be spared the spectacle of a disoriented and destroyed Ecuador." But that interpretation has not found much favor outside the country.
"This was the stereotypical Latin American military coup," said Eduardo Gamarra, director of the Latin American and Caribbean Center at Florida International University in Miami and an expert on Andean politics. "The president was toppled and replaced by his vice president, who is supported and guaranteed by the military."
Indeed, in an interview with foreign reporters this week, Mr. Mahuad directly linked his overthrow to his refusal to adopt policies that the military favored. "I made peace with Peru" -- a neighbor with which Ecuador fought several border wars in the 20th century -- "and cut the military budget," he said, incurring the wrath of an officer corps unwilling to accept change.
Still, the new government here is aware that it faces ostracism from other governments in the region unless it moves decisively to punish the rebels, and it has taken some steps to do so. More than a dozen colonels are now in custody and awaiting trial on charges of sedition and conspiring against the constitutional order, and investigations of an estimated 300 junior officers have begun to determine their responsibility in the overthrow of Mr. Mahuad.
But Gen. Telmo Sandoval, who supported the coup, has been promoted to commander of the armed forces, and other generals who played major roles, like Gen. Carlos Moncayo, who permitted Indians to seize the Congress building by withdrawing his troops, are still free. "I will not permit a witch hunt," the new minister of defense, Adm. Hugo Unda Aguirre, said Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vice President Gustavo Noboa of Ecuador signing a degree that allowed him to assume the presidency. Gen. Telmo Sandoval is at his right.;
Soldiers guarding the presidential palace in Quito to prevent Indians from taking it over. Indians had stormed the Congress the day before. (Photographs by Reuters)
 
Map: The government in Quito has taken some steps to punish the rebels. Map shows Ecuador.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (98%); LATIN AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); CHILE (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: QUITO, ECUADOR (70%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; LATIN AMERICA; ECUADOR (98%); LATIN AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); CHILE (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); QUITO, ECUADOR (70%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT COUPS (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); RELIGION (60%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (58%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; MAHUAD, JAMIL HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



766 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: David Williams Jr., 78, Energy Industry Executive

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
David R. Williams Jr., an industrialist and engineering innovator whose companies built and operated oil and gas pipelines in North and South America and the Middle East, died on Jan. 15 at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 78.
The cause was cancer, said his son David R. Williams III. 
 David Williams Jr. was a cofounder in 1949 of Williams Brothers, a family company, based in Tulsa, Okla., that became the Williams Companies, the largest pipeline company in North America, in the 1960's. In 1971, he bought the Williams Brothers Engineering Company unit, which he had organized, and gave up his posts as executive vice president and chairman of the executive committee of the Williams Companies. Through a series of mergers, another unit of the parent company later became MCI Worldcom.
A division of his company managed the Naval Petroleum Reserve in Elk Hill, Calif., and the Johnston Island bomb-testing site in the Pacific for the Atomic Energy Commission. By 1980, after a number of acquisitions and a name change to the United States Filter Corporation, it was one of the largest American engineering companies. U.S. Filter was sold to Ashland Oil in 1981.
Mr. Williams also supported research and the development of clean coal and coal slurry pipelines. The Black Mesa Pipeline, a unit of Williams Technologies Inc., supplies coal to Southern California Edison.
His other ventures included a role in reorganizing Canadian Hydrocarbons Ltd. in the late 1950's and reorganizing Knox Glass Inc.
In the oil shortages of the 1970's, Mr. Williams was active in analyzing the relationship between energy and economic trends. He represented the United States at the Dartmouth Conference, which sponsored meetings of American business executives and Soviet officials.
Mr. Williams was born in Tulsa and grew up at Mulberry Plantation outside Camden, S.C. He was a graduate of Culver Military Academy and the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale University. During World War II, he flew P-51 Mustangs over Europe.
He married Pauline W. Bolton of Cleveland in 1944. She died in 1988. In 1990, he married Anne Wright Kerr of East Hampton.
Survivors include his wife and son, David, of Boston; two daughters, Pauline W. Lampshire, of Camden, S.C., and Rachel W. Zebrowski, of Tulsa; a stepdaughter, Anne Wright Baxter, of Port Reyes, Calif.; two sisters, Martha W. Daniels, of Camden, and Kate W. Tabor, of Washington; a brother, Joseph W. Williams, of Spring Island, S.C.; four granddaughters; a step-granddaughter; and a step-grandson. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: WMB (NYSE) (93%); VZC (LSE) (69%); VZ (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (93%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (93%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (82%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (67%); NAICS486990 ALL OTHER PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4619 PIPELINES, NEC (55%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JOHNSTON ATOLL (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAMS COS INC (93%); UNITED STATES FILTER CORP (82%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (69%); WILLIAMS TECHNOLOGIES INC (67%); BLACK MESA PIPELINE INC (55%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JOHNSTON ATOLL (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TULSA, OK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); ENGINEERING (91%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COAL & SLURRY PIPELINES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (72%); CANCER (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (70%); COAL MINING (70%); TRENDS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); SPONSORSHIP (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, DAVID JR; FREUDENHEIM, MILT DAVID R WILLIAMS JR (95%); DAVID WILLIAMS JR (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



767 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: The Years of Growth Show U.S. Potential

 BODY:
As the current expansion in the American economy becomes the longest in the nation's history next month, its real significance is coming into focus. Its legacy will be a reborn respect for America's potential. Limits to growth still exist, but they are not the stunted ones of the 70's, 80's and early 90's. 
 "The last four years really have lifted our hopes about what is possible," said Paul Romer, an economics historian at Stanford University.
 Money & Business 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES HISTORY (88%); 

PERSON: PAUL ROMER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



768 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Victoria Fromkin, 76, Interpreter of Oral Miscues

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX 

 BODY:
Victoria A. Fromkin, an internationally renowned linguist who gathered the flotsam of human discourse -- slips of the tongue, mishearings and other speech errors -- and used it to illuminate the way in which language is organized in the mind, died on Jan. 19 in Los Angeles. She was 76.
The cause was cancer, said officials at the University of California at Los Angeles, where Dr. Fromkin, an emeritus professor of linguistics, had taught since 1965. 
 In addition to publishing many articles on psycholinguistics, Dr. Fromkin and Robert Rodman wrote "An Introduction to Language" (Harcourt Brace), now in its sixth edition and regarded as the seminal undergraduate textbook in the field.
As Dr. Fromkin was gleefully aware, everyday speech contains many a slip 'twixt the brain and the lip. While earlier scholars had noted the theoretical usefulness of these errors, she was the first to gather them in quantity, colleagues said, building a collection of linguistic inadvertencies like spoonerisms ("speech production" coming out as "preach seduction"), semantic substitutions ("That's a horse of a different race") and slips of the ear ("All of the members of the group grew up in Philadelphia" heard as "All of the members of the group threw up in Philadelphia").
To know Dr. Fromkin was to be accustomed to having every verbal lapse transcribed for scientific posterity in a notebook she carried.
Dr. Fromkin used the collection, which grew to more than 10,000 examples, to offer evidence of the unconscious knowledge of language structure that people draw on whenever they speak.
A person who means to say "bridge of the nose" but says "bridge of the neck" instead, she explained, was furnishing concrete, if unwitting, evidence that the words "nose" and "neck" are stored near each other in some sort of mental lexicon.
Dr. Fromkin was born Victoria Alexandra Landish in Passaic, N.J., on May 16, 1923. She received a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of California at Berkeley in 1944. She married Jack Fromkin in 1948. A son, Mark, died in an automobile accident at age 16.
Returning to school in her late 30's to study linguistics, Dr. Fromkin received a master's degree from U.C.L.A. in 1963 and a Ph.D. from the same institution in 1965. She joined the faculty that year.
From 1980 to 1989, she was vice chancellor of graduate programs at U.C.L.A., one of the first women in the University of California system to hold such a position.
She was a past president of the Linguistic Society of America. Dr. Fromkin is survived by her husband.
"We all produce slips of the tongue," Dr. Fromkin wrote in 1980. "And those of us trying to understand the nature of language and language use are grateful for this fact."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In her books and articles, Dr. Victoria A. Fromkin sought to understand how errors in speech were related to the workings of the human mind. (Associated Press, 1984)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); ENGLISH LANGUAGE; BRAIN; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); LINGUISTICS (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); APPLIED LINGUISTICS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); CANCER (57%); 

PERSON: FROMKIN, VICTORIA A; FOX, MARGALIT VICTORIA A FROMKIN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



769 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: At Trade Forum, Clinton Pleads for the Poor

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 29

 BODY:
Against a sudden wave of apparent angst among some corporate and political leaders about the growing gap between rich and poor, President Clinton made an impassioned appeal today to make global trade work for the poor, too.
In what amounted to his gospel on globalization, Mr. Clinton told an audience of chief executives and national leaders attending the World Economic Forum that if the economic elite which had created, managed and benefited from globalization did not listen to the concerns of those left out, protectionism would return. 
 "This is a new network," Mr. Clinton said, speaking to an audience that included top business executives but also the leaders of South Africa and Colombia, and the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat. "But don't leave the little guys out."
Demonstrators, apparently trying to mirror on a smaller scale the disturbances at the World Trade Organization talks in Seattle in December, were kept away from the hall where Mr. Clinton spoke by phalanxes of heavily armed Swiss police officers.
But a group of demonstrators broke windows in a nearby McDonald's restaurant that features a large statue of the company's icon, Ronald McDonald. Several policemen were injured, witnesses said.
Although the protest broke up, the forum's organizers, increased security around town this evening. Some streets were closed off and shuttle buses stopped running, complicating the comings and goings of the well-heeled as they tried to get to dinner along ice-encrusted sidewalks.
Mr. Clinton is the first American president to attend the forum, and his presence here, if only for a few hours, was seen as an effort to put his personal imprimatur on the forces of globalization that his economic polices have encouraged. With five cabinet secretaries in tow, he reaffirmed that he wants to push forward with a new round of talks in the World Trade Organization, which failed in Seattle in part because of Mr. Clinton's concerns that the negotiations address labor, environmental and other issues seen by many nations as a way for rich countries to impose their will on the flow of trade.
"We have got to reaffirm unambiguously that open markets and rules-based trade are the best engine we know to lift living standards, reduce environmental destruction and build shared prosperity," Mr. Clinton said. "This is true whether you're in Detroit, Davos, Dacca or Dakar."
In order to include the developing world in the benefits of globalization, the well-off have to make some adjustments, he said.
Among these, he listed lifting the burden of debt of developing countries, inviting the committee on trade and environment of the World Trade Organization to examine environmental concerns of developing countries, and developing new institutional forums for including those who feel left out of the global economy.
Afterward, Secretary of the Treasury Lawrence H. Summers said that the president had no new specific proposals but was concerned that the "institutional architecture" take care of such issues as global warming, transborder crime and developing vaccines.
The only applause during Mr. Clinton's speech came for his reference to his State of the Union proposal to give tax benefits to companies that worked on vaccines for AIDS.
Some economists questioned whether Mr. Clinton was tempering his enthusiasm for open markets. "It was a balanced speech, but he left unclear whether he wants to impose our social norms on the developing countries," said Horst Siebert, head of the Kiel Institute of the World Economy in Germany. "Nobody wants children in Bangladesh working in factories, but we should not be imposing our norms on them."
The minister of trade for Singapore, George Yong-Boon Yeo, suggested that Mr. Clinton's concern for the well-being of the developing world would not be accepted as totally sincere. Developing countries "find it hard to believe that you care more about their health and development than they do themselves," he said after the speech.
Tinges of anti-Americanism peppered some of the panel discussions here. At one, a moderator asked for a "non-American" questioner.
Mr. Clinton's expressed concern for poorer nations followed a PricewaterhouseCoopers survey of corporate executives, which was published as the forum opened and found that more than half the 1,020 respondents said they feared that the Internet would widen the wealth gap between industrialized and developing nations, and possibly increase the risk of social unrest.
The president of the World Bank, James D. Wolfensohn, also wrote as the forum opened that global poverty was increasing.
For the first time, nongovernmental organizations, which have expressed concerns about the effects of globalization on the developing world, were present at the forum in some strength. Mr. Clinton did not refer to them directly, but repeatedly urged his audience to be inclusive rather than exclusive in compiling and applying the rules of free trade.
"In the words of that slogan that people my daughter's age always use, denial is not just a river in Egypt," Mr. Clinton said, to laughter. "And the more we hunker down and refuse to devote time systematically to discussing these issues and letting people express their honest opinion, the more we are going to fuel the fires of protectionism."
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Barak and Arafat to Meet
By The New York Times
DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 29 (AP) -- Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel will meet with Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, late next week at the Erez Crossing between Israel and the Gaza Strip. The arrangment was announced after President Clinton addressed the World Economic Forum here and spoke with Mr. Arafat for half an hour.
Mr. Barak dashed hopes that all three leaders would meet here to discuss the peace effort when he decided on Friday not to attend the forum.
Before the Barak-Arafat meeting, Dennis Ross, the American special envoy for the Middle East, will meet with Israeli and Palestinian negotiators, who will start talks on Sunday to try to meet a Feb. 13 deadline for a peace treaty framework.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Presidents Clinton and Thabo Mbeki of South Africa chatting yesterday after Mr. Clinton addressed the economic forum in Davos, Switzerland. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (90%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP MCDONALD'S CORP (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVOS (SWITZERLAND); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); VANDALISM (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); RIOTS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TRENDS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE BILL CLINTON (92%); THABO MBEKI (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



770 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Hit As Fuel Prices Climb Sharply

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

 BODY:
The recent run-up in energy prices is rippling across the American economy and affecting practically every family and business as it becomes more expensive to heat a home, refuel an automobile or buy an airline ticket.
Crude oil prices have more than doubled since last winter, leveling off in the last several days at about $27 a barrel. Prices for oil products like gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and heating oil have soared, and natural gas has become much more expensive. 
 While oil prices are nowhere near the peaks they reached in 1980 and 1991 when inflation is taken into account, they are still beginning to have a real effect on pocketbooks.
Along the frozen East Coast, consumers are growing angry about the rising cost of heating oil. Steven O'Sullivan, 40, who owns a three-story, three-family home in Rockaway Beach, is paying $410 every 10 days for heating oil deliveries that used to cost him $270 and were only needed every two or three weeks during the milder weather last winter.
"I feel like I'm getting ripped off; I feel like I'm being taken advantage of," he said. "Consumption has been down the past few winters, so there should be a glut of oil, not a shortage."
Across the country, motorists are finding that it costs more to refill a gas tank. In Toledo, Ohio, Edith Davis, a 60-year-old widow and retired sales clerk living on disability checks, has begun carefully planning trips in her 1989 Oldsmobile Cutlass to save money on gasoline. "If I'm going to the doctor, I try to make a grocery stop on the way back," she said. "This is dead in the winter, when everything else is expensive, like your heating."
Many businesses are beginning to feel the pinch, too. Airlines have added $20 fuel surcharges to the price of round-trip tickets for travel after the end of this month. And trucking companies are so unhappy that they are discussing steep price increases or even parking some of their trucks for a while. The trucking trade association asked President Clinton last week to send Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to the Middle East immediately to plead for more oil.
The Clinton administration took three small steps over the last week to respond to the problem. It temporarily halted oil purchases for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. It authorized the early release of $45 million in previously budgeted federal money to state governments to subsidize heating bills for poor families. And it proposed that Congress allocate an extra $154 million next year to help poor households insulate their homes better.
But Energy Secretary Bill Richardson has resisted pressure from Northeastern senators, led by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, to put oil from the strategic reserve onto the market to help bring prices down. Mr. Richardson contends that the reserve is intended only for severe supply disruptions.
Oil prices have been rising because the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries decided last March to cut production by nearly 8 percent, and stockpiles have dwindled since then. So, oil remains available now but at higher prices.
Economists say that in contrast to oil price increases in 1973, 1979 and 1990, the recent climb in prices is unlikely to cause a recession. That is partly because the economy is booming, but also because oil makes up a much smaller share of the economy these days. The total value of crude oil used by the United States fell to just 0.8 percent of the nation's economic output last year, from 5.5 percent in 1980. The percentage will bounce back if oil prices stay high, however.
Energy-dependent industries like petrochemical and steel production have grown more slowly over the last two decades than sectors of the economy that use less energy, like health care.
"Energy price increases don't have the same impact that they used to, so that's why we're not too worried about a recession," said Harvey Rosenblum, the senior vice president and research director at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, which specializes in energy issues.
The regional Fed bank estimates that long-term oil prices, as measured by futures contracts for the delivery of oil up to three years from now, have climbed 30 percent in the last year, and that this will reduce employment across the nation by 0.3 percent. That is a little more than half the effect such a rise in prices would have had in the early 1980's.
The United States now imports half its oil, up from 37 percent in 1980 but still less than many European or Asian countries. Philip K. Verleger Jr., an oil expert at the Brattle Group, a Boston consulting firm, said that Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Southern European countries would be the biggest losers from the recent rise in prices, while Russia, Mexico, Venezuela and Middle Eastern oil producers would be the biggest beneficiaries. Despite some regional problems and benefits, the United States will be among the least affected over all, he added.
The sharpest increase in energy prices in the United States this winter has occurred for heating oil in the New York area and in New England. Executives in the heating oil industry say that many corporations, government agencies and apartment buildings now have "interruptible service" contracts with natural gas companies that give them a low price provided that they stop using natural gas and switch to heating oil during very cold weather, when demand is high. Very cold weather recently -- and the prospect of another winter storm -- has prompted a rush to buy heating oil by these natural gas users, bidding up prices.
Heating oil inventories in the Northeast were unusually low before the cold snap. Recent winters had been mild, and many storage areas have been shutting down because of tightening environmental regulations. The result of short supplies and interruptible natural gas contracts has been that heating oil, which homeowners can usually buy for 20 or 30 cents less a gallon than gasoline, costs as much as $2 a gallon now in New York, up sharply over the last couple of weeks. By contrast, it remains on sale for $1.30 a gallon just 400 miles west in Cleveland, where very few companies have interruptible contracts with natural gas companies.
Allison A. Heaney, the president of Skaggs-Walsh Inc., a heating oil company in College Point, Queens, said that the manager of a Midtown Manhattan apartment building had called her last weekend asking for an immediate start of deliveries of heating oil every eight hours around the clock to fill the small oil tank of the building, which usually relies on natural gas. "He said to me, 'I'll pay any price to get the oil,' and I thought to myself, I wish some of my regular customers would say that," Ms. Heaney said, adding that she had been unable to meet the request because all of her oil and tanker trucks were already booked.
Oil industry consultants say that traders seeking profits are now sending at least a dozen tankers full of heating oil to the New York area from Europe, where the weather has been warmer and heating oil prices are much lower. While the shipments should bring New York prices down in the next week or two, they will leave heating oil supplies low on both sides of the Atlantic, said Roger Diwan, a heating oil expert at the Petroleum Finance Company, an oil strategy company in Washington.
"If another cold snap happens here or in Europe, we're both vulnerable the next time" to a longer-lasting price increase, he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Surge In Prices"
Graph tracks the price of Crude Oil, Home Heating Oil and Unleaded Gasoline since 1988.
(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOLEDO, OH, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HEATING OIL; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); HEATING OIL (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); FAMILY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (77%); JET FUEL (77%); TRAVEL TICKETS (77%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); DIESEL FUEL (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); TRUCKING (66%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH BILL CLINTON (66%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



771 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Clinton's Gospel on Poverty
President Clinton appealed to an economic forum in Davos, Switzerland, to ensure that globalization will address the needs of the poor. PAGE 8 

Latin America Gets a Jolt
Latin Americans saw coups as episodes in their past, until a military-led junta ousted Ecuador's president, raising new doubts. PAGE 3
 
Judge in AT&T Breakup Dies
Harold H. Greene, who presided over the landmark 1984 dismemberment of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, was 76. PAGE 34
 
Shadow of a Doubt
Bill Clinton looms large over the campaign and, perhaps, over the next presidency. WEEK IN REVIEW
 
Showdown in Atlanta
If the Tennessee Titans hope to win Super Bowl XXXIV, running back Eddie George needs a big game against a stingy St.Louis Rams defense. SPORTSSUNDAY
 
Unexpected Vistas in Chile
In the foothills of the Andes, a timeworn spa provides a look at the past; in Patagonia, a vast park offers hope for the rain forest's future. TRAVEL
 
Onward and Upward
Human history, Robert Wright argues in "Nonzero," has a direction, a purpose and a goal; and he bases his case on evolution, not revelation. BOOK REVIEW
 
Racing Toward Immortality
Stem-cell research holds the promise of an endless supply of new body parts. But its results might not be so desirable after all. MAGAZINE
 
Geniuses at Work
Today comic actors are given the label once reserved for Mozart: Everyone is a genius. ARTS & LEISURE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Longest Yards in Atlanta -- An ice storm made for treacherous walking yesterday as Atlanta prepared for today's Super Bowl. PAGE 14 (Dave Martin/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); SWITZERLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (73%); ANDES (72%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (57%); ST LOUIS RAMS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS RAMS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); SWITZERLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (73%); ANDES (72%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US PRESIDENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); COUPS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (51%); BOOK REVIEWS (51%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (51%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



772 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 2264 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Blinded by Talent: Leon Smith Struggles to Return to the N.B.A.

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
Leon Smith looked at his right arm, then at his left. As he awoke in a hospital after a suicide attempt, he asked a doctor why only the left arm still had an intravenous line.
"The coach said to take the IV out of your right arm," she said. "He said that's your shooting hand." 
 Smith wondered why a team that did not want him around would make sure that his shooting hand was spared. The coach, the Dallas Mavericks assistant Bill Peterson, said later that he could not think of any other way to help -- besides offering a prayer.
Seeing Smith semiconscious that day last November at Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas, Peterson was no longer observing the big, strong 19-year-old with vast athletic potential, a 6-foot-10-inch, 240-pound Chicago schoolboy star who was selected in the first round of the National Basketball Association draft last June. Smith was now a deeply troubled soul who had tried to end his life by ingesting a half-bottle of aspirin, approximately 250 tablets' worth.
"I didn't instruct the doctor to take the IV out, I just mentioned it," Peterson recalled. "People can look at that the way they want, but at least I got in there to visit him. Where was everybody else when Leon needed help?"
The question has haunted, if not defined Leon Smith from the very beginning. Abandoned by his father and removed from his mother's custody when he was 5, Smith grew up a ward of the State of Illinois. He moved from group home to shelter, forced sometimes to rummage through Dumpsters with his younger brother for food.
But he could play the game. At Martin Luther King High School in Chicago, he dominated opponents routinely enough to be considered one of America's top hoop prospects. He had his mind set on following the path of other prep superstars who skipped college and went right to the N.B.A.
But if Kobe Bryant and Kevin Garnett are models of players who were mature enough athletically and emotionally to make that huge jump, Leon Smith's sad and tumultuous basketball odyssey is a cautionary tale -- one that is forcing the N.B.A. to rethink how to decide which teenagers are capable of going right from high school to the pros and what to do with those who are not.
Smith stormed out of the gym during his first practice with the Mavericks last summer. He fired two agents in three months. He was arrested twice, had his contract suspended and spent 31 days in a Dallas psychiatric center after his suicide attempt.
"It would be unfair to call Leon a poster child for anything but Leon," David Stern, the N.B.A. commissioner, said. "All of these young men are individuals. But I remain convinced, in a broader context, that we need to disincentivize players who have other options from coming into the N.B.A. too young."
 
Nurturing a Fantasy From Grade School
Smith is here in Houston now, living in a two-bedroom apartment with a childhood friend. He works out daily, hoping to earn another shot in the league.
The Mavericks' new owner, Mark Cuban, recently indicated he wanted to keep Smith. But the players association has told the team that Smith would not return if Don Nelson, its coach and general manager, remains in Dallas. Smith has already signed an agreement that pays him his $1.45 million contract over 10 years instead of the original three. He will soon work out for two teams, but it is unclear whether he will return to the N.B.A. this season.
Smith and the people around him understand there are more important hurdles to clear. And while many people who were close to Smith in Chicago are busy assigning blame, Smith says he is ready to accept responsibility.
"I put it on myself," he said before a recent workout in Houston. "When I was in the hospital, I had time to grow up. I sat in my room and I cried. I sat in there and thought about what I did, and realized that things didn't have to be that way."
Billy Hunter, the executive director of the National Basketball Players Association, and Purvis Short, the union's director of player programs, have spent the past two months helping Smith put his life back together. He still attends counseling sessions in Dallas and Houston, and he has been off all medication for two weeks.
Friends and family from Chicago have painted the Mavericks as an organization not equipped to deal with such a sensitive situation. Smith, though, bears no strong resentment toward anyone. Not even a system that caters to impressionable teenagers who happen to play basketball well.
"People did the best they could even when they didn't know to help me," he said. "I don't hold grudges. And I don't feel sorry for myself. I'm here now. That's what's important."
Smith had long dreamed of playing in the N.B.A., and he had no shortage of elders and peers to help nurture the fantasy. In elementary school, he once blocked 27 shots in a single game. In his freshman year in high school, Smith says, he decided he wanted to become a pro some day. He had grown nearly 5 inches over the previous summer, to a gangly and uncoordinated 6-9.
"All my teammates were teasing me, saying, 'You can't block a shot, you can't even dunk,' " he said. "I couldn't. My knees hurt so bad. But Kevin Garnett had just come out of high school the year before. So I was, like, 'Man, I bet you I go straight from high school to the N.B.A.' "
After his junior year in high school, Smith attended Sonny Vaccaro's prestigious ABCD camp at Fairleigh Dickinson University. The camp is a showcase for many of the country's top high school stars. Vaccaro approached Smith after the camp ended, asking him if he wanted to be drafted in the first round.
"Yes," Smith said, his voice thick with excitement.
"It's a done deal," Vaccaro told him.
Carl Bauer, whose mother runs a group home where Smith lived for eight years, said the conversation was a watershed. "Once Sonny confirmed it, Leon became obsessed with making it," Bauer said.
Competing for space on the wall of Smith's room were posters and pictures of nearly every current N.B.A. player who skipped college and turned pro. Kobe Bryant, sailing in for a dunk. Kevin Garnett, scowling while harnessing a rebound.
 
Disruptive Behavior At First Practice
Smith led nationally ranked King High to the Chicago public school championship his senior year, averaging 25 points, 15 rebounds and 8 blocked shots a game. He briefly explored enrolling at Fresno State and Rhode Island, but he feared that his poor grades would force him to sit out a year to become eligible.
"I wanted to be on TV," he said. "That's all I wanted to be. I wanted to get out of the projects. That's it."
Smith acknowledged that he made his decision without much consultation. "A lot of these kids have families, and their families could show them how to handle themselves in certain situations," he said. "I didn't have a family. They can put it on me, but if a child decides he wants to come out of high school and play in the N.B.A., that's his decision. And if the teams feel like he's ready, then I think he should do it."
Smith's first agent, Dan Fegan, said: "Look, Leon wanted to do this. No one was going to tell him he couldn't. People may have given him ideas about turning pro, but he wasn't pushed."
Smith was selected with the final pick of the draft's first round last June. The Mavericks had not met him or worked him out. The following month, Smith flew from Chicago to Dallas with his only possessions, a bag of dirty laundry. He moved into an unfurnished, upscale apartment. With loans, he bought two beds, a television and stereo equipment.
"I think it just threw him a little bit," said Doris Bauer, the woman who ran the Lydia Home, where Smith lived from age 5 to 13. "He was used to coming home to people, and all of a sudden he's got a big, empty apartment with nothing. Leon was alone again."
Smith's first practice with the Mavericks ended with him storming off the floor in front of television cameras. Another player had been slow running sprints, so Donnie Nelson, an assistant coach, told the group to run again.
"You go run the sprints," Smith told Nelson, who asked Smith to repeat himself because he was so stunned.
Don Nelson, Donnie Nelson's father, soon decided that Smith was too disruptive to be allowed around the team. He assigned Peterson and Kiki Vandeweghe, another assistant coach, to work with Smith.
"At that point, there was just a lot of frustration," Smith said. "When they first drafted me, they were telling me I had to go somewhere else to get my game. I felt like they was cheating me out of my opportunities. I put my name in the N.B.A. draft, because I felt I could play in the N.B.A."
 
Isolation by Team And a Girlfriend
The Mavericks decided that Smith was not ready to play in the league, and told him that one way to improve his raw game was to play for a year with a minor league team in St. Louis. Smith resisted. His heart was set on following his heroes by going right into the N.B.A.
Nelson felt Smith's presence was so disruptive that he pleaded with Smith's new agent, Matt Muehlebach, to make sure his client did not attend the Mavericks' season opener Nov. 2 -- Smith's 19th birthday. Yet Smith paid for his own flight from Chicago and bought a ticket to the game from a scalper. The Mavericks contend that a season ticket-holder gave Smith the ticket.
"That hurt him more than anything," Short, the union official, said. "The team not wanting him around really set him back."
Nelson and the Mavericks have been accused of gross negligence in their handling of Smith, especially by Smith's supporters in Chicago. "They treated him like a piece of meat," said Sonny Cox, Smith's high school coach. "Dallas did that boy wrong. They talk about a support system, but they're trying to save their own behinds at this point. They segregated Leon from everyone instead of truly trying to help him."
Don Nelson defended the team's actions and insisted that there was a support system for Smith. But he also conceded that he had drafted Smith for one simple reason: Nelson and other Mavericks officials were very worried that the Lakers were going to use the first pick in the second round to acquire him.
"You look at the lack of big, talented people in the N.B.A., and in college basketball, and if we didn't take him someone else would have," Donnie Nelson said. "That was the worst draft in 10 years. If you're going to take a risk, the rule of thumb is, take it on a big guy with some potential.
"We couldn't delve into Leon's medical records, but we knew about the issues and the challenges. It just goes against any grain. You do not cut or trade talented young players, unless it's for fantastic reasons. Leon had a 7-foot-5 wingspan. Looking back, maybe you sometimes get blinded by talent."
One high-ranking league official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said: "They can defend themselves all they want, but how do you draft a player without ever talking to him?"
The pressure built on Smith. Friends kept calling for money. He felt the Mavericks did not want him around. Then he and his girlfriend, Cassie Pondexter, a 16-year-old basketball star in Chicago, broke up.
On Nov. 14, Smith swallowed the aspirin tablets and was found by a friend, passed out on the floor of his Dallas town house, with green war paint smeared on his face. After being released from the hospital, he returned two weeks later to Chicago, where he was arrested twice within two days for threatening Pondexter and damaging her mother's car.
"I'm not afraid to tell you anymore that I was hurt, because I was," Smith said. "When you care for somebody, you want to see them. I had to get past that."
 
Struggling to Find A Support System
People in the N.B.A. are struggling with the lessons of Leon Smith's saga.
"You can't just lay this off on the league and say it somehow failed him," said Gregg Popovich, the coach and general manager of the San Antonio Spurs, who had actually drafted Smith with the intention of trading him to the Mavericks in a prearranged deal. "They've got numerous programs to help them. But if we're going to draft these young kids, individual teams are going to have to install the proper support systems. Economically, emotionally, psychologically or whatever, they need more support than we're currently giving them."
Stern, the N.B.A. commissioner, said: "This isn't an expertise that we come to easily, but we're determined to do whatever is necessary to ease the transition of these young men."
Smith, too, is trying to learn from his experience. On this day in Houston, he looks at the rim and down at his feet behind the 3-point line. He is going one on one with Ashley Hunter, a mature 20-year-old with whom Smith grew up and who lives with him on the recommendation of the players association.
"Bottoms up!" Smith says as he releases a rainbow jump shot from 25 feet away on the left baseline.
The ball passes gently through the net at the Westside Tennis Complex, where the Rockets practice in the morning and a 19-year-old trying to make a comeback practices in the afternoon. Hunter retrieves the ball and tosses it off the backboard for his friend, who leaps high and tomahawks it through the rim.
"I think I'm ready to play on this level," Smith says, pausing between shots. "I'm just working as hard as I can, just in case somebody calls me up. I'm in Triple A right now. I'm trying to make it to the majors."
Leon Smith grabs the ball, turns and fires another 3-pointer. All net. All better. At least for now.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leon Smith, who is expected to be waived by the Mavericks within days. It is unclear, however, whether he will return to the N.B.A. this season.; Leon Smith, who jumped from high school in Chicago to the Dallas Mavericks, running the Hill in Houston. (Photographs by Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)(pg. 10); (Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (87%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: MEMORIAL HOSPITAL (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (92%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (92%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS BASKETBALL (92%); SUICIDE (90%); TEEN SUICIDE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (74%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE; SMITH, LEON KOBE BRYANT (57%); KEVIN GARNETT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



773 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: On a Train in Egypt, and America

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman (column, Jan. 28) believes that Egyptians love the collective so much that they are unable to embrace "globalization's obvious power to elevate living standards." In fact, globalization's power to elevate living standards is far from obvious; what is much clearer is the association of globalization with increasing inequality.
Both within countries and between them, gaps between the rich and poor have exploded over the last 30 years. The consequences have included the spread of diseases like AIDS and civil wars. Social services and price subsidies that the poor depend on have been cut or eliminated. 
 Egyptian elites on the trains may have cell phones, but their embrace of high technology does not correspond to an understanding of the economic and social consequences of their actions.
 
STEVEN SHERMAN
Greensboro, N.C., Jan. 28, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EGYPT (91%); UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (69%); 

CITY: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT; EGYPT (91%); UNITED STATES (86%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (69%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TRENDS (70%); TRAINS (66%); AIDS & HIV (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); 

PERSON: SHERMAN, STEVEN; FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



774 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: On a Train in Egypt, and America

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman is an astute observer of the international scene. However, regarding his commentary on Egypt (column, Jan. 28), I have ridden on commuter trains from affluent Fairfield County, Connecticut, into Grand Central Terminal through the Bronx and Harlem. Aboard, cell phones ring amid the rustling pages of The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal. 
 The bleak landscapes outside reveal another world as comparatively dichotomous as that which Mr. Friedman describes. One might suggest that the disparity in Egypt may be lessening and that in the United States it may be increasing.
 
BARBARA SLOANE ROBBINS
Naples, Fla., Jan. 28, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); NAPLES, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT; UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); NAPLES, FL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); TRENDS (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; ROBBINS, BARBARA SLOANE THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



775 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: On a Train in Egypt, and America;
A Widening Gap

 BODY:

To the Editor:
W. Michael Cox and Richard Alm (Op-Ed, Jan. 24) have come to the defense of widening inequality in the United States. They imply that moderating inequality would slow economic growth, although systematic comparison of the United States with other countries shows otherwise. 
 The wealthy of other affluent countries are less wealthy and their poor are less poor than are the American wealthy and poor. People elsewhere have not suffered widening inequality, even though their economies are also growing and are being globalized. Yet those Europeans, Canadians, Australians and Japanese live about as well as average Americans do -- perhaps better, if we add in items like vacation time and health. And they typically experience less virulent social divisions.
 
CLAUDE S. FISCHER
Paris, Jan. 25, 2000
 
The writer is a visiting scholar at the Center for North American Studies. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (89%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER ON BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES; ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES; ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (89%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); BUDGETS (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (65%); 

PERSON: ALM, RICHARD; COX, W MICHAEL; FISCHER, CLAUDE S RICHARD JOSEPH COX (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



776 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: National News Briefs;
Congressional Leaders Called to White House

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29

 BODY:
President Clinton said today that Congressional leaders from both parties had agreed to come to the White House to discuss his State of the Union proposals, including a plan to pay the $3.6 trillion national debt.
"First and foremost, I hope we can agree on my plan to pay down the debt entirely over the next 13 years and make America debt-free for the first time since Andrew Jackson was president in 1835," Mr. Clinton said in his weekly radio address. 
 The president said that he wanted to reserve a third of the projected federal surplus for debt reduction and that a lower debt would free interest payments that should be used to preserve Social Security.
"That will keep it strong and sound for 50 years and take in the life span of the baby boom generation," he said.
Giving the Republican radio response, Representative Jim Nussle of Iowa said the strong economy left the government more money than it needed to save Social Security, pay down the national debt and deal with other priorities. He said the rest of the money should be returned to Americans in the form of tax cuts.
"President Clinton has already figured out how to spend most of that money for new government spending programs," Mr. Nussle said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; NATIONAL DEBT (US); FEDERAL TAXES (US) NATIONAL DEBT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX RELIEF (74%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NUSSLE, JIM (REPR) BILL CLINTON (90%); JIM NUSSLE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



777 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHINATOWN/LOWER EAST SIDE;
For This Chinese New Year An American-Style Parade

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE 

 BODY:
Old acquaintances may be forgot, but to ring in the Lunar New Year, New Yorkers in Chinatown could always rely on lion dancers roaming the crowded streets, each following a different drummer. It was like a dozen roving block parties jammed into one neighborhood.
But faced with declining attendance, community groups have decided to scrap that old tradition and usher in the Year of the Dragon on Saturday with an American-style parade, including grand marshals and school marching bands. 
 "Our goal is to promote Chinatown tourism and bring more jobs to the community," said Alfred Lui, coordinator of the Better Chinatown Association, a new group that is sponsoring the parade. "We want to provide entertainment and showcase our culture to all New Yorkers."
A bilingual banner will lead a procession of eight floats, two marching bands and hundreds dressed as Monkey Kings and other characters through the narrow streets of Chinatown. At least four martial arts schools are dusting off their lion costumes and will perform their choreographed dance in lockstep. For the fourth year in a row, no firecrackers will be allowed. A similar but smaller parade is also scheduled in Flushing, Queens.
While the Lunar New Year was once a thriving celebration, community officials said several trends led to its recent decline. Like Mr. Lui, who now lives in Queens, many former Chinatown residents have moved. Many have taken jobs outside the neighborhood, where they do not get a day off for the celebration. And some say the Giuliani administration's ban on fireworks in 1997 was another reason for the diminished crowds.
"The ban didn't kill the parade, but it drove another nail into it," said Paul Lee, a prominent local businessman. Another factor, he said, has been the special buses Atlantic City casinos have chartered to take advantage of Chinatown's day off. "You had about 25,000 people emptying out of Chinatown," he said.
The decision to hold the parade was made in December, after local leaders began meeting to discuss ways of reviving the neighborhood's economy. Plans for the celebration have Chinatown's mainland and Taiwanese factions, who have historically kept their distance, working together. Both sides agreed not to invite governmental representatives of China or Taiwan.
Some groups were sorry the traditional celebration would not be held. "We prefer that it went back to the old way," said Betty Yee, who runs a martial arts academy that performs lion dances. DENNY LEE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: February 4, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Neigborhood Report pages of the City section on Sunday about the Lunar New Year celebration in Chinatown referred incorrectly to the role of traditional lion dancers. They will not be limited to marching in a new American-style parade. Five lion dance troupes have been issued permits to walk the streets in the traditional fashion from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. tomorrow while the parade is being held, and on Feb. 13 from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lion dancers roamed the streets last year, but they'll be marching in line Saturday. (Ahad Zalmai)
 
Map of New York shows the location of the parade route.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BETTER CHINATOWN ASSOCIATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (92%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LUNAR NEW YEAR; PARADES CHINESE NEW YEAR (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); TRENDS (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (77%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); MARTIAL ARTS (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: LEE, DENNY ALFRED LUI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



778 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1843 words

HEADLINE: Working in the Past;
In Woodbury, You Can Find a Blacksmith, Two Even, and a Pewter Maker and Woodworker Who Still Use 18th-Centruy Tools

BYLINE: By LUCY EMERSON SULLIVAN 

 BODY:
FOR antique hunters, the Route 6 area in Woodbury is a familiar path. It winds through the town, delivering all it promises in the dozens and dozens of Colonial and Georgian buildings that line the road.
Tucked among those buildings on Route 6, and on several streets around town, even more of the past -- the 18th century to be exact -- can be found, not in a musty, dusty display, but in a showcase that is alive and vibrant. 
 There's the sound of a blacksmith hammering on his anvil as a steel rod is shaped, and the sight of a rotating lathe as a pewter teapot is made. A couple of miles away, a 200-year-old gilded frame is being repaired with newly cast ornamentation, while a woodworker using 18th century tools steadily guides his chisel into a thick chunk of maple. In Woodbury, there are still a handful of artisans making a living using 200-year-old techniques.
Woodbury is hardly unique among New England towns for its artisan community, but what sets it apart is the allegiance that so many craftspeople there use Colonial-era methods and styles, according to Edward S. Cooke Jr., the Charles Montgomery professor of American decorative arts at Yale University.
Professor Cooke, who wrote about the area in his book, "Making Furniture in Pre-Industrial America: The Social Economy of Newtown and Woodbury, Connecticut" (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1996), noted that the 1798 tax list counted shops for 14 blacksmiths, seven joiners and a wheelwright in Woodbury, a town of about 3,700 people. Today the town retains that history of small-shop, custom work, and he said it is"one of the strongest" examples of a thriving community of traditional craftspeople in the country.
For the most part, these businesses are not designed for tourists, but if a customer needs a set of 18th-century reproduction chairs or cabinet hardware -- and if they're not in a 21st-century hurry -- they will be welcome to drop in.
A few of these special workshops are exceptions to that rule, and open to the public.
One is the Woodbury Pewter Factory and Outlet Store, at 860 Main St. South, Rt. 6, which is designed to educate the curious in the ways of making pewter. The glass window that separates the factory from the store was installed three years ago, said the company's president, Brooks Titcomb, "because for 40 years people would come in and say, 'Can we see them making the pewter?' " Now Mr. Titcomb, the third generation (great-aunt to father to son)in the $2 million business, goes into the factory "20 times a day, and I see kids with their noses pressed against the glass."
The 16,000 customers who visit Woodbury Pewter each year include gift shop owners from around the country who come to see the origins of the pewter pieces they sell. The production list includes about 450 stock items and thousands of custom orders, all hand-crafted by 25 people. Some of the bronze molds that are used date from the 18th century. Modern methods are also used to produce the Colonial reproduction tankards, teapots, candlesticks and plates, some of which are featured in the "American Life Collection" at the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Mich.
The Forge and Anvil showroom, 442 Main St. South, Rt. 6, also welcomes visitors. There, Stephen Segre, a third-generation blacksmith, whose grandfather learned the trade in Italy, displays his custom ironwork designs.
Two generations ago the family moved to Waterbury, and by the time Mr. Segre was old enough to work in the shop, his father had taken the business on an artistic detour and was fabricating gigantic steel sculptures for the artist, Alexander Calder.
At the hand of Mr. Segre (short for Segretario), that artistic trend has moved into designs for steel baker's racks, bed frames and tables.
"This is nothing like what normal people would think of as a blacksmith's work," he acknowledged. The rolling, gleaming silver steel is "the real color of iron -- like pewter," Mr. Segre said. "This scrollwork goes back thousands of years."
The skill is ancient, but the design ideas are very contemporary. "It is so rare to find any business that will work with you on a custom piece," said a customer, Stephanie McDonald, marketing director at Brass Mill Center, a shopping mall in Waterbury. Over the years, Ms. McDonald and her husband, John, have acquired several pieces by Mr. Segre, including a coffee table, side table, sideboard and mirror. Recently they commissioned a chandelier.
"My husband also got involved with the project," Ms. McDonald said. "Stephen truly hand-forges everything and the weight of it is incredible."
Another blacksmith in Woodbury, Charles Euston, specializes in repairs and restoration work, including 17th- and 18th-century hinges, nails, rods, hooks and latches.
He is in his 23rd year bending over the fire to duplicate hardware for renovation purists, restoration companies and sometimes for makers of historical movies. His business, Woodbury Blacksmith and Forge, is about to move into a new shop at 125 Main Street, where the red steel sign that silhouettes a working blacksmith is waiting.
In addition to producing tens of thousands of nails a year that restorers use to replicate an 18th-century look, Mr. Euston and his two employees supply local and catalogue customers all over the country and abroad, making it clear that their hardware is strictly hand forged -- not die stamped, cast or reworked.
The assignment is hardly routine at times, especially if the piece he is copying has been lost to time.
"Customers will send us blueprints or a piece of wood with a stain of the latch on the door," Mr. Euston said. He studies the shape and size of the mark and pounds out a latch based on what he sees and what he can surmise about the date of the original.
Beyond the hardware, Mr. Euston sells reproduction New England firebacks -- the thick cast iron plate, often showing a Colonial design, that protects the stonework at the back of the fireplace.
As he held a steel rod in the flame, Mr. Euston said many people expect him to be brawny. "They're thinking of a farrier who works with horses," he said. "That's completely different." For his kind of work, Mr. Euston said, "it's all in the wrist, not necessarily the muscles."
He talked about one of his favorite perks in a job that he said hasn't changed in 300 years: stopping for tea with friends. "We sit outside on the bench in the sun and take a break. I'm part of the town; part of the working community. Sometimes I stand in my doorway and say, 'This is really neat.' "
The drawbacks? "We have an 18th-century business in a 21st-century world. People want it fast. They don't understand how I work. I've had to say, 'If you want to, you can find someone else to do it faster.' Every craftsman will tell you the same story."
In his barn workshop off Westwood Road, Craig Farrow, a cabinet maker, is concentrating as he builds a reproduction 18th-century banister-back chair with a carved crest. His chisel is burrowing away and the maple is coming off in little curls.
Altogether, he will make six matching sidechairs and two armchairs in this design for one customer. Each crest will take a day-and-a-half to carve. Each sidechair will take about five days to build and each armchair seven days.
"This chair will last forever," he said. Mr. Farrow employs a natural force that early furniture makers took for granted -- shrinkage. "Today they rely on glue to hold the chair together," he said. "For this kind of chair we rely on the natural shrinking process of green wood."
If the wood used to make the legs is not freshly cut, Mr. Farrow will soak it in water until he is able to use it. The ends of the stretchers, called tenons, are fitted into a bored hole in the leg, like a ball and socket joint. As the wood of the chair leg dries, it shrinks more than an 1/8 of an inch in diameter, closing tightly around the tenon and locking it in place. "You'd have to bust the chair to get it apart," Mr. Farrow said.
It's not always easy for Mr. Farrow's customers to accommodate his old-fashioned working rhythms. Frank Attardi has spent too many years as a creative director in Manhattan's advertising world to be comfortable waiting for anything. "One rap I have about artisans is that they kind of march slowly," he said. "I'm not patient." But when he first met Mr. Farrow 18 years ago, he was immediately aware of the craftman's talent.
"Craig is superb," said Mr. Attardi, who is now retired. "He is really, truly an artist." When Mr. Attardi and his wife, Linda Dano, had two 18th-century houses moved to Washington, Conn. and then joined together, Mr. Farrow worked on the reconstruction. He has built many pieces for that house, among them a replica of a chest on frame that is part of a collection in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Mr. Attardi found a picture of the chest and blew it up to life size so that Mr. Farrow could copy it. "I said, 'This is what I want,' " Mr. Attardi said. "And Craig did an exact replica."
What Mr. Attardi might not remember is that Mr. Farrow made several visits to the American Wing of the Metropolitan Museum to study and measure the original piece before he started the reproduction.
In a light-filled room not far away at 54 Flanders Road, a husband and wife team, Oscar Perez and Debra Boyers Perez, run Vigues Art Studio, which is devoted to restoring art. Flip through a portfolio of before and after pictures of the valuables they have salvaged, and there's an engraving of a Civil War battlefield scene that arrived in pieces and a yellow-stained chromo-lithography of Napoleon. One customer brought in a $12 tag sale find -- a watercolor titled Sicilian Wedding painted 100 years ago and tucked under another picture where it yellowed. Now restored, it is worth $10,000.
Each reconstruction project has a tale to tell. One of the most gripping is the story of the 300-year-old Greek icon that arrived from an art dealer. There was a rip through the image of Jesus and some of the Greek lettering was missing.
To restore the face of Jesus exactly, Mr. Perez went to the Greek Orthodox church and consulted with an iconist and then to the library to study books on icons. "I studied the faces of Jesus and the process of making the repair," he said. "Then I matched the gold leaf lettering."
Both restorers are experienced painters and Ms. Perez still accepts commissions for large canvases. Mr. Perez studied art in Florence and Rome as a student.
"They are not in awe of themselves, but they are amazing people," said Patricia Sadlier, owner of Gerald Murphy Antiques in Woodbury. One of the pieces they restored for Ms. Sadlier was an 18th-century Chinese screen that had been damaged by water. For this job, Mr. Perez rebuilt the carvings, using a base clay that resembled the texture and composition of the original plaster. Ms Perez matched the antique colors and repainted it.
"The result was fabulous," Ms. Sadlier said. "If I had not known of them, I would have sent it to Europe."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles Euston, above, of Woodbury Blacksmith and Forge. Below, from left, Oscar and Debra Boyers Perez of Vigues Art Studio; a pewter pot at the Woodbury Pewter Factory, and Craig Farrow, a cabinet maker. (Photographs by Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times) (pg. 1); Craig Farrow, a cabinet maker, works on a piece in his Woodbury shop. Debra Boyers Perez, of Vigues Art Studio, which restores art. (pg. 8); Brooks Titcomb, of Woodbury Pewter Factory, and Tony Ferrer.; Stephen Segre with a bed frame outside his shop, the Forge and Anvil. (Photographs by Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. 9)
 
Map of Woodbury shows location of Route 6 artisans strip. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (75%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WOODBURY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: PEWTER; BLACKSMITHS; FURNITURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION VISUAL ARTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); FURNITURE MFG (70%); 

PERSON: EUSTON, CHARLES; PEREZ, OSCAR; FARROW, CRAIG; SULLIVAN, LUCY EMERSON G CRAIG SULLIVAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2000



779 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Losing the Women

BYLINE: By Lee M. Miringoff; Lee M. Miringoff is the director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion, a nonpartisan research center in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

 BODY:
In her recent appearance on "Late Show with David Letterman," Hillary Clinton provided a few chuckles, but also a glimpse into why she has had a bumpy transition from celebrity Clinton to candidate Clinton.
When Mr. Letterman asked what should happen to Elian Gonzalez, the Cuban child caught in an international custody war, Mrs. Clinton managed to do everything but provide a direct response. She said that the interest of the child should be paramount -- a mere sliver of what her ardent supporters have expected from a woman who has always been seen as a strong advocate for children and families. 
 In this moment lies a clue to the vanishing gender gap in the coming New York Senate race.
A year ago, when the trial balloon for Mrs. Clinton's candidacy first went up, the polls showed strong potential support. A poll by Marist College in January 1999 placed her 10 points ahead of Rudolph Giuliani, her presumed rival. Her lead was fueled by her huge advantage -- 24 percent -- among women voters, especially those under 45. Her support among women scrambled traditional voting patterns upstate, where the Republican Party is strong.
Now, one year later, she trails Mr. Giuliani by nine points statewide and is only even with him among female voters. In one year, her support among women under 45 dropped 29 points. Her early 28-point lead upstate among women voters is now a 22-point deficit in our polls.
What happened? Mrs. Clinton's core constituency -- young, professional women -- were initially energized by the opportunity to send a woman to the Senate. They were eager to have the First Lady establish her own political career and triumph in her own right. Many of them saw in her a dedicated advocate for children.
But Mrs. Clinton has offered little to her core constituency. She has not reinforced her image as a crusader for children, nor did she quickly emphasize her differences with Mr. Giuliani on health care, education and the economy.
Instead, Mrs. Clinton has largely tried to out-Rudy Rudy with unsuccessful appeals to New York's diverse ethnic communities. Last summer, she became embroiled in the controversy over clemency for Puerto Rican nationalists. In November, she unwittingly created an international incident when she failed to respond to remarks by Yasir Arafat's wife, Suha Arafat, who during an appearance with Mrs. Clinton made accusations about Israeli policies toward Palestinians.
Mrs. Clinton's campaign seems to realize it has gone off track. She has recently attacked Mr. Giuliani's record on education, and the campaign scheduled more meetings with women's groups. And despite her missteps, polls show that she is still just a few points behind Mayor Giuliani, who has yet to declare his own candidacy. To succeed, she needs to be not only less scripted and more forceful but also more focused on her core issues. Removing advocacy from the repertoire is for her what failure to mention New York City's falling crime rates would be for Mr. Giuliani.
Perhaps, when she formally announces her candidacy in the next week, Mrs. Clinton will, as the political consultants are fond of saying, get on message. There's no time to waste. The political clock is ticking. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) MARIST COLLEGE (56%); MARIST COLLEGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MARIST COLLEGE (56%); MARIST COLLEGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WOMEN; ELECTION ISSUES; MINORITIES (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); WOMEN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); FAMILY (77%); CHILD WELFARE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ETHNICITY (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; MIRINGOFF, LEE M HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (89%); DAVID LETTERMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000



780 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report;
Wary of hackers and the courts, e-mail users are turning to services that keep their messages secure.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
MICROSOFT would not be proud to admit it, but the software behemoth has done more to spur the growth of the e-mail security industry the last two years than perhaps any other company.
Businesspeople blanched at the notion that Bill Gates, of all people, could be forced to answer questions in court about e-mail messages that he had sent years before -- supposedly in confidence. Meanwhile, consumers took note last summer when hackers broke into Microsoft's Hotmail site and made public some highly embarrassing personal correspondence by its users. 
 Of course, Microsoft was not the first to encounter e-mail security issues, but its experiences pointed out the extreme vulnerability of this type of communication. The common analogy among industry executives and analysts is that e-mail is as secure as a postcard, but even that may be giving e-mail too much credit.
When a message is sent, it can make a dozen or more stops along the Internet as it travels to the recipient's desktop. At each of those stops, it is typically copied, with the duplicate message stored on a server -- the technological engine that runs any Internet operation.
Once a duplicate e-mail message is stored, it is subject to security breaches or mishandling by the employees of the company or organization that operates the server. Furthermore, the courts can force Internet service providers to retrieve messages if they are deemed relevant to a case.
More menacing than the courts, many employees have found, is the system administrators hired by corporations to screen offensive or sensitive e-mail in the workplace.
The creativity of hackers and corporate sleuths in their e-mail surveillance, however, has been matched in recent months by services meant to make e-mail as private as a confession booth.
"This is becoming a very big category," said Steven Robins, an analyst with the Yankee Group, a technology consulting firm. "As more and more business goes onto the Internet, people want the same safeguards as they get in any other medium."
According to Forrester Research, the number of e-mail messages sent each day in the United States will grow to 1.5 billion by 2002.
Among the first to see opportunity in this category was Tumbleweed Communications Inc., which was founded in 1993 and went public last fall. Tumbleweed's technology allows a user to send e-mail and inform recipients that they have received a document or a message that has been encrypted and stored on the sender's server computer.
When a recipient clicks on a link inside the e-mail message, she is sent to that server site, where the encrypted document can be viewed on or retrieved from a secure Web page to which she alone has access.
For instance, Datek, which licenses Tumbleweed's service, offers users the opportunity to receive confirmation of stock trades by e-mail. Because the correspondence is secure and documented, it meets requirements set by the Securities and Exchange Commission for the transmittal of trading information -- and spares Datek and its customers the expense and hassle of handling paper confirmation orders.
Michael Dunn, a Datek spokesman, declined to say how much the company has saved in mailing costs. But he said 30 percent of the firm's confirmations were now handled electronically. "The cost savings are significant," he said.
Companies that license Tumbleweed's service typically pay in the "mid-six figures" upfront and between 3 cents and 50 cents for each e-mail message sent, according to Mark Pastore, Tumbleweed's vice president of corporate development.
Tumbleweed "is the leader right now," according to Alan Weintraub, research director of the Gartner Group, a consulting firm. "But they won't be alone for long. There's a lot of activity in this space."
Some of that activity focuses on other ways to secure and control e-mail. For instance, the e-mail security company QVtech has developed Interosa, a service whose technology enables a user to send an e-mail message and control several aspects of how it is used, including to whom it can be forwarded, and whether or not it can be printed, edited or copied. Notably, the message can be erased from the Interosa server after a certain date -- the digital equivalent of paper shredding.
After a user types the e-mail message, he sets the rules for how it can be used. The message is then encrypted before it is sent. When the recipient clicks on the e-mail message to open it, a message travels from the user's desktop to a Web site using Interosa's technology, which then verifies the recipient's identity and decrypts the message.
According to a company spokesman, QVtech is trying to sell Interosa to companies like Mail.com and MessageMedia, which handle e-mail direct marketing on behalf of Yahoo and E*Trade, among others -- companies that want to be able to track whether and how their mailings are handled by the intended recipients.
QVtech has not completed agreements with such firms, the spokesman said, but the company intends to charge about a penny for each e-mail message sent using its technology.
Authentica, which sells document security software, said it will release an e-mail security product in April that would compete with Interosa and others. Lance Urbas, Authentica's chief executive, said the service could be particularly valuable for companies that want to send valuable or sensitive documents via e-mail without worrying that customers might forward them to colleagues.
"We have a consulting firm that issued a report on a Friday, and by midday Monday, the author of the report had gotten a dozen calls about statements in the report from people who hadn't purchased it," Mr. Urbas said.
"Reports like that cost a lot," he added. "That's the kind of thing we'll prevent."
Businesses are not the only target of so-called secure e-mail companies, of course. According to Jon Gilliam, president of Hush Communications USA, consumers have already begun to migrate toward secure e-mail services, with nearly 150,000 users having signed up for HushMail since May.
As is the case with Hotmail, HushMail requires the user to visit the site to read and send mail. The difference, Mr. Gilliam said, is that even HushMail employees cannot open the e-mail messages stored on its server -- not only because they are encrypted on the server, but because the key that unscrambles the messages is tied to a pass phrase that only the user knows.
"We don't even know the pass phrase. If someone forgets their pass phrase, we can't help them," Mr. Gilliam said. Likewise, he said, "if we get a subpoena like we did today for e-mail records, we have to give the courts an encrypted message. There's nothing we can do about it."
Mr. Gilliam said HushMail would soon begin offering to license its service to companies that want to offer it to their customers. He said that law firms and health care companies might want to use the service rather than send confidential briefs or medical notes through regular e-mail. "There's a huge demand, because a lot of sites can't afford to send that information via regular e-mail," he said. "It's just too valuable."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jon Gilliam, president of Hush Communications USA, says even Hush employees cannot read e-mail protected by HushMail. (Ted Albracht for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (90%); YANKEE GROUP (53%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%); TUMBLEWEED COMMUNICATIONS CORP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL; COMPUTER SECURITY ELECTRONIC MAIL (94%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); NETWORK SERVERS (87%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); INTERNET PRIVACY (78%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (63%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%); 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB; GATES, BILL (WILLIAM H) BILL GATES (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000



781 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Shift on Trade: 'Wake-Up Call'

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 30

 BODY:
After seven years of pushing harder than any other postwar president to expand trade between the United States and the rest of the world, President Clinton told global leaders here this weekend that the American people have had enough.
Congress and society at large, despite a record-breaking economic expansion built in part on an explosion of foreign trade, have less enthusiasm for exchanging goods and services with the world than they did when he first took office, Mr. Clinton said. If new trade deals are going to get done, the world needs to reinvent the way it thinks about trade and globalization to accommodate this American political reality. 
 That message was delivered in an otherwise upbeat, even passionate address to prime ministers, government officials, and chief executives of multinational companies who gathered at an annual conference in this Alpine village to dream up ways of moving globalization forward. Many of the people assembled here were eager to put last year's collapse of world trade talks in Seattle behind them. Mr. Clinton insisted that Seattle was no fluke.
"Those who heard a wake-up call in Seattle got the right message," Mr. Clinton said. "I do not agree with those who view with contempt these new forces seeking to be heard in the global dialogue."
These new voices, as anyone who watched or read about the demonstrations in Seattle late last year knows, are labor unions and an assortment of private groups known collectively as nongovernment organizations.
Mr. Clinton's new trade policy has two big winners. One is those new voices from Seattle, who have been welcomed as partners in setting trade policy. The other is his vice president, Al Gore, who is running for president with Mr. Clinton's strong support.
Unions and environmental groups are a core of the Democratic Party constituency. Unions, in particular, have a record of rolling out reliable votes for their favored candidates. Those votes could potentially make Mr. Gore a winner in a close race.
Mr. Clinton urged in his speech here that the world stop thinking about those groups and their causes -- including workers' rights and environmental protection -- as nuisances to trade. The American position, he said in effect, is that trade cannot become freer unless those groups can be persuaded to like it.
In saying this, Mr. Clinton shook a pillar of American foreign policy. The United States in the post-cold-war era has made trade perhaps the most important tool for expanding its ties with other nations. But by insisting on linking trade to labor and environmental issues, he made it much less likely that the post-Seattle logjam on trade will be broken while he is in office.
Leaders of developing countries, including India and China, are about as passionate as Mr. Clinton when they insist on writing their own labor and environmental laws and on not having such laws decided in negotiations with rich countries. Even a hint that the World Trade Organization, the Geneva-based body that regulates trade, might one day become an enforcer of American standards on wages, factory safety or industrial emissions has been a deal-breaker in recent trade negotiations. There are few signs in the weeks since the Seattle collapse that poor countries are rethinking that stance.
On the contrary, Mexico, with which Mr. Clinton seven years ago sealed the North American Free Trade Agreement, probably the most dramatic market-opening measure in recent years, could hardly be more emphatic in expressing a different view.
President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico, also speaking at the World Economic Forum here in Davos last week, delivered a sharply worded attack on what he called "very peculiar alliance of left and right forces" and "self-appointed representatives of civil society." Those groups have hijacked global trade talks under the guise of protecting the poor, he said.
"We should be suspect of their motives," Mr. Zedillo said, contending that Mexico is proof that old-style free trade works wonders for developing countries. "Serious efforts to liberalize trade must not stop because a few people use fallacious arguments as subterfuges for protectionism."
No one was happier about Mr. Clinton's speech this weekend, though, than John J. Sweeney, the president of the powerful A.F.L.-C.I.O., who like Mr. Clinton attended this year's forum in Davos. During his hourlong address here Saturday, Mr. Clinton referred to Mr. Sweeney by name three times, more than he mentioned anyone else there. The audience included several presidents and prime ministers, including those from Turkey and Columbia.
"The president is firmly committed to making labor issues a part of trade negotiations, and he did make that clear," Mr. Sweeney said after the address. Clinton administration officials dispute the idea that the president pushed for a more prominent place for labor and environment on the world trade agenda solely to help Mr. Gore. "These are not election year issues," said Charlene Barshefsky, Mr. Clinton's top trade official. "They reflect a change in the body politic in general."
But few would dispute that Mr. Clinton shifted gears on trade at an odd time. The president, for one, now has little time left in office to make a substantially new approach to world trade stick, even if other nations agree to start a broad dialogue on the subject this year.
Moreover, Mr. Clinton has vowed to push through the Republican-controlled Congress three big trade deals negotiated the old way -- without unions and nongovernment organizations playing an active role. Those trade deals involve Africa, Caribbean nations and, perhaps most notably for American foreign policy, China.
The administration's gamble seems to be that labor and environmental groups might soften their opposition to pending trade agreements in return for a bigger voice in future ones. But it is a risky bet. Opponents of the China trade package, for instance, are already arguing that Mr. Clinton's embrace of labor and environmental standards perfectly illustrates why Congress should vote no when presented with trade deals that do not do much to advance those standards.
Whatever the odds, Mr. Clinton said in his speech, people who favor freer trade have no choice now but to open the door to those new voices.
"The more we deny this," he said, "the more we will fuel the fires of protectionism, not put them out."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico at the World Economic Forum. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (95%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (95%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TRENDS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (62%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KAHN, JOSEPH BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000



782 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Faces Big Challenge in Any Congo Peacekeeping Mission

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
When an unusual meeting of African leaders and the Security Council ended last week, there was general agreement that the United Nations will have to be given a major role in bringing peace to Congo. But when, and in what form, are still open questions that are expected to dominate council discussions in coming days.
On Jan. 17, Secretary General Kofi Annan, a former director of United Nations peacekeeping, recommended that the Security Council, which has already authorized sending 500 cease-fire monitors to Congo, add 5,537 troops. This would include infantry as well as medical, communications, mine-clearance and air and water transportation experts for a nearly roadless region. The startup cost is estimated at $41 million. 
 In his report, Mr. Annan said that 960,000 Congolese have been displaced by the war and that they and another 300,000 refugees from other wars in the region are dangerously short of food.
Diplomats and United Nations officials say they see in Congo's complicated war a challenge like no other that the organization has faced since the Balkans disintegrated into ethnic warfare after the collapse of European communism.
Within the United Nations, even the word Congo has tragic resonance. Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold died on a Congo peace mission in 1961 when his plane crashed in what is now Zambia.
Richard C. Holbrooke, the American representative, called the unusual meeting of African presidents and ministers as January's council president. He has been telling United Nations officials and members of Congress that the Congo operation may be the United Nations' last chance to prove it can get peacekeeping right. That was the message he delivered directly to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on its recent field trip to New York.
But other diplomats say that this assertion masks another problem. Unless the United States allows the Security Council and the United Nations peacekeeping department to mount a credible operation in Congo, they say, the organization will be in danger of repeating its experience in Somalia and Rwanda, two regional conflicts that it proved unable to bring under control.
In the case of Rwanda, where a genocidal war in 1994 first disrupted the region and drew Congo into the fighting, the United States prevented the Security Council from acting for several months.
Mr. Holbrooke says he is determined that this will not happen again. But he also accepts that he has two huge tasks ahead. The Clinton Administration has agreed to give Congress 15 days notice of Security Council resolutions creating United Nations peacekeeping operations, for which the United States is billed more than 30 percent of the costs.
So Mr. Holbrooke will have to persuade reluctant members of Congress that skimping on Congo will lead to disaster. Congress already has a law on the books saying that the United States will limit its payments to 25 percent, and often balks at that.
At the same time, Mr. Holbrooke has been urging African leaders, on a trip there in December and in the Security Council in January, to take more responsibility for the region. Without political will in Africa, he tells them, nothing the United Nations tries can possibly work. A few Africans left New York last week saying they felt "bullied."
Last July, African nations involved in the Congo war joined the government of President Laurent Kabila in Lusaka, Zambia, where they agreed on a peace accord. A month later they were all back at war. By the fall, they were clamoring for international help, a message delivered most bluntly last week by President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe. He supports Mr. Kabila's government in its war with rebels who are, in turn, backed by Rwanda and Uganda.
In Security Council speeches last week, and in a statement of purpose that followed the meetings, African leaders coupled their calls for United Nations peacekeepers with new pledges to put their Lusaka agreement into practice. Britain's representative, Sir Jeremy Greenstock, welcomed African commitments to peace. But reflecting the skepticism of many at the United Nations, he noted that the world had been pleading with Africans for action for some time, but "frankly, they weren't listening."
The deep divisions between Congo and its neighbors, evident even in public speeches last week, were reportedly even more pronounced in closed-door meetings among the African leaders, Mr. Annan and American and other officials and diplomats. One Western official said that by the end of the council deliberations on Wednesday there was "blood on the floor."
Considerable attention was focused last week on Mr. Kabila, who made his first trip to the United States and apparently went home less convinced of American support for his enemies, Rwanda and Uganda. Mr. Kabila's American public relations aides were elated with his trip and say that he plans to return in May, hoping to talk with American companies about more investment in Congo.
Western diplomats and American officials see hope in economic pressures. All the nations involved in the Congo war are now feeling the costs of that involvement and are looking for a way to withdraw without a loss of dignity, officials say.
The political will to take that step, the Secretary General's report says, is not only what matters most but is also the basic condition for peace.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Presidents Yoweri Museveni of Uganda, Pasteur Bizimungu of Rwanda, Joaquim Chissano of Mozambique and Laurent Kabila of Congo took part in a United Nations Security Council meeting called to discuss restoring peace to Central Africa last week. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Kinshasa shows location of Congo: The government in Kinshasa is seeking international help. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); RWANDA (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); SOMALIA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); UGANDA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE); RUSSIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); RWANDA (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); SOMALIA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); UGANDA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); LANDMINES (75%); REFUGEES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (51%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA RICHARD HOLBROOKE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000



783 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: The New New Hampshire Has a High-Tech Face

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H.

 BODY:
To the naked eye New Hampshire looks unchanging.
Village streets are still lined with white-spired churches and jumbled general stores, blank-windowed mill buildings remain along the Merrimack River, highway signs still warn of moose crossings not far north of Manchester. In thrifty and rock-ribbed New Hampshire, people do not brave snowy streets in trendy sport utility vehicles, they just put chains on the tires of their Ford sedans. 
 But New Hampshire has changed as much as any state in the nation in the last 10 years. A financial basket case in the early 1990's, the state is booming, with unemployment rates far lower than the national average, and job growth and income levels far higher. It is not simply that the economy is better, it is profoundly different than it was eight or even four years ago.
Shaggy men in plaid shirts and suspenders still roam the streets, but they are less likely to be loggers or mill workers than computer jockeys (and they have the body piercings to prove it). Many have come from elsewhere, particularly Massachusetts, to work in a high-tech industry.
State officials boast that they have the highest concentration of technology workers in the country -- 82 out of every 1,000 workers in the private sector. High-tech services employ about 7 percent of New Hampshire workers -- far above the national average of about 4 percent -- and that does not include all the people who live in the state but work at technology companies in Massachusetts. Payrolls at some high-tech companies grew by almost $1 billion between 1995 and 1998, according to state data.
It is unclear how these changes will be reflected in the presidential primaries. And analysts remain unsure whether the newcomers will change New Hampshire politics, or if New Hampshire will change them.
But high-tech workers elsewhere have traditionally avoided joining political parties, and that seems to be the case in New Hampshire. Since 1996, the percentage of independent voters has risen from 28 percent of the electorate to 37 percent, and they now outnumber either Democrats or Republicans, according to the New Hampshire Department of State.
Dick Bennett, president of the American Research Group, a New Hampshire polling operation, said the newcomers do not seem engaged by national politics, although they have started participating in local politics.
"Especially with high-tech people," Mr. Bennett said, "they think government systems are antiquated and unresponsive, a bad investment."
But independents are expected to play an important role in the New Hampshire primary. Residents do not need a political affiliation to vote in a party's primary and polls show independent voters are split between the insurgent candidates in each party, the Democrat Bill Bradley and the Republican John McCain.
It was only eight years ago that James Carville, Bill Clinton's chief political strategist, set the theme for the campaign with the phrase "It's the economy, stupid." Anyone who made such a remark today "belongs in a mental health institution," said Steve Duprey, the state Republican chairman.
In 1992, 46,000 people were looking for work; today, the number is less than 19,000. Back then, the unemployment rate was 7.5 percent; now, it is 2.5 percent, well below the national average of 4.1 percent. Per capita income has risen by almost a third, and, in 1998, housing prices finally recovered all the value they had lost in the 90's.
Patrick J. Buchanan, who won the state Republican primary in 1996, would probably not find much support for his protectionist philosophy now, local officials say. New Hampshire is sending 70 percent more products overseas than it was five years ago. More than half of its roughly $2 billion in exports are related to computers, electronics and industrial equipment.
In 1991, during the worst of the economic decline, the state's population fell as blue-collar workers, in particular, fled. But New Hampshire's population has been growing rapidly, especially in the two counties just north of Boston along the Massachusetts border. Between 1993 and 1998, even with some workers still leaving, the two counties, Hillsborough and Rockingham, grew by 43,000 people, or about 7 percent.
Only 40 percent of those who live in New Hampshire were born there, said Linda Fowler, a professor of government at Dartmouth University. The people moving in, especially those from Massachusetts, are richer than those who are leaving, according to data from Regional Financial Associates, an economics consulting firm in West Chester, Pa.
Drawn by a high quality of life, and the lowest taxes in the nation, many of them are bringing their businesses with them, or starting new ones.
"I found the people much more cooperative for starting a business here than in Massachusetts," said Robert D. Thompson, who moved from Massachusetts about a year ago to start his own biochemical engineering business in Manchester. "The cost of living was attractive," and, he added, "I couldn't have rented the same space for so low in Massachusetts, at least nothing near Boston."
But computer companies are not the only ones that have moved in.
Fidelity Investments, the Boston mutual fund giant, employs more than 2,000 people in New Hampshire. Wal-Mart, which opened its first store in the state in 1991, is one of the state's largest employers. A decade ago, construction and mining were among the New Hampshire's top four industries; today, they have been replaced by financial services and real estate.
Of course, not everyone has benefited. Population is still falling in New Hampshire's northern counties, which are also poorer than the rest of the state. And prosperity has led to new problems in New Hampshire. People worry about traffic, congestion and affordable housing.
Health care topped the list of concerns among registered voters questioned in a Dartmouth College survey last fall, with 25 percent of Republicans and 39 percent of Democrats calling it the most important issue facing the country.
Even tax cuts are not as much in demand as they long had been.
"The Republican candidates are trying to appeal to voters by promising to cut taxes," Ms. Fowler, of Dartmouth, said, "but they're not getting any traction."
Politicians are trying to adapt to the new New Hampshire. Now, when they meet with New Hampshire businessmen, they are less likely to discuss agricultural programs or defense spending, and more likely to give their views on taxing sales made on the Internet. And Gov. George W. Bush's parents are not the only celebrities the governor has campaigned with here. Last month he drew a big crowd in Manchester when he appeared with Jim Barksdale, the founder of Netscape. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; PRIMARIES; LABOR; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); POLITICS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRENDS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SEDANS (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE BILL CLINTON (53%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000



784 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-North Korea Talks on Missile Program Set for March

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Monday, Jan. 31

 BODY:
North Korea has agreed to send a high-level delegation to the United States in March, opening the way for talks on North Korea's missile program, the spread of nuclear weapons and terrorism, the State Department said today.
The announcement on North Korea was made by the State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin, who arrived here this morning with with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright for three days of talks. 
 Mr. Rubin described the North Korean delegation's visit as an "important step forward" in improving the hostile relations between the two countries. The announcement came at the end of seven days of meetings in Berlin between the United States and North Korea.
The Clinton administration's hope is that the visit in March would lead to a permanent agreement under which North Korea would agree to stop flight tests of its ballistic missiles for good, Mr. Rubin said.
North Korea agreed late last year not to continue these tests while talks on improvements in relations between the two governments continued. At the same time, Washington agreed to take steps to lift some economic sanctions against North Korea.
In 1998, North Korea fired an a long-range missile and appeared to be in the final stages of another launching last fall when the tentative agreement was reached between Washington and Pyongyang to halt the tests.
The threat of ballistic missiles from North Korea capable of hitting the United States has been the prime reason behind the Clinton administration's proposal for the deployment of a limited national missile defense system.
Dr. Albright is scheduled to meet here on Wednesday with Russia's acting president, Vladimir V. Putin, and Washington's plans for national missile defense are high on the agenda. So far, Moscow has been resistant to the administration's proposals.
The visit by the North Koreans in March would provide the "best opportunity" to make progress on issues that are "central to peace and stability in Northeast Asia and the Asia-Pacific region," Mr. Rubin said.
North Korea, which is governed by a harsh Communist leadership, had been offered no concessions on its designation by the United States as a sponsor of terrorism, Mr. Rubin said. In order to be removed from that list, North Korea had to meet "objective criteria," and had so far not done so, he said.
As part of Washington's effort to bring North Korea out of its isolation, a high-level delegation of American officials led by former Defense Secretary William J. Perry visited North Korea last March. The Clinton administration has been trying for many months to persuade senior North Korean officials to reciprocate with a visit to Washington.
At the Berlin talks, North Korea's vice foreign minister, Kim Gye Gwan, officially accepted the invitation, although a definite agenda for the Washington visit still needs to be decided, Mr. Rubin said. The North Koreans have not yet said who will lead their delegation, but he would be of similar seniority to Mr. Perry, who is President Clinton's special envoy to North Korea.
The American delegation in Berlin was led by a special envoy, Ambassador Charles Kartman, and Mr. Rubin said the two sides "exchanged views on issues of common concern in a constructive, businesslike environment." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); GERMANY (93%); ASIA (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; BERLIN (GERMANY); UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); GERMANY (93%); ASIA (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; ATOMIC WEAPONS; MISSILES; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MISSILE SYSTEMS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (72%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; RUBIN, JAMES P VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000



785 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Putinism Looms

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: DAVOS , Switzerland

 BODY:
A Russian doctor told the ambulance driver to take his patient directly to the morgue. "Why?" cried the patient. "I'm not dead yet." "Shut up," said the doctor. "We're not there yet."
That lugubrious joke is being told about Vladimir Putin, chosen by the Kremlin clique to succeed Boris Yeltsin. In eight weeks, riding a wave of war hysteria, this K.G.B. apparatchik is likely to be elected president -- to take his patient, Russia, to the cooler of repression and autocratic rule. 
 President Clinton refuses to see this. In his whirlwind junket to the annual Davos gathering of politicians, executives and scientists, his lame-duck army of aides passed the word that Putin could well be a closet democratic reformer.
Americans here were already embarrassed by their president's royal arrival. The day before, Britain's Tony Blair came with a modest party of 15 to deliver his speech.
But when hundreds of junketeering Clintonites descended on Davos, meeting participants were ordered out of the hall to make room for the huge entourage. When the offended audience resisted, the Clinton traveling claque had to relent.
More dismaying was the Clinton refusal to see that its Russia policy -- by failing to tie economic aid to democratic reform and property rights -- has been a flop. The result has been the takeover of the government by a combination of corrupt oligarchs, the internal police and the army.
Yeltsin's extended "family" put a K.G.B. man in place, took advantage of lawlessness in Chechnya to launch a popular war and called a snap election to capitalize on the war fever. By so doing, they avert prosecution for corruption and silence the beginnings of a free press.
It's working for them. An instant cult of personality has been created for Putin -- tough-minded and lean-bodied, in contrast to the staggering Yeltsin -- and he rides high astride his Chechen warhorse. The army is with him: he pays the troops, and has raised spending on armaments by 50 percent.
He is a man whose basic principle is to have no inconvenient principles. His first major political act was to double-cross the fake reformers close to the Kremlin by making a deal with the Communist Party. Now Putin controls the Kremlin while his new Communist allies -- along with the wildman Vladimir Zhirinovsky -- dominate the parliament.
He is now counting on his generals to crush the Chechens before March 26, election day, or at least to provide the illusion of low-casualty victory until then. His surprise enemy at home is the Committee of Soldiers' Mothers, a hard-to-harass group that provides casualty figures 10 times greater than Kremlin disinformation.
He has been suppressing the truth by arresting journalists who dare to report from the front lines and silencing independent TV commentators. Media controlled by Boris Berezovsky, the Putin sponsor reportedly denied entry to Davos by Swiss authorities, tout the new Napoleon to the skies and besmear opponents.
That opposition is on the run. Names like Primakov and Luzhkov -- seemingly sure things for power six months ago -- have faded fast. The Communist boss Zyuganov exists only as a foil with no future.
The only real reformer left standing is Grigory Yavlinsky, who suffered losses for daring to denounce the switch in goals from anti-terrorism to all-out war. He is gutsily running again, but his time won't come until Russians tire of stagnation, weary of war and are no longer bamboozled by the Kremlin-controlled media.
Until then, Putin is the oligarch-K.G.B.-army choice. But his quick popularity in polls rests on war fever; when that dissipates, so may he. If he does not win a majority in the first round, the fickle Russian public could drop him overnight.
The irony is that a "Putin era" would mean an uncompetitive, economically weakened Russia -- no threat to the West. A "Yavlinsky era" would marry a literate work force to a free-market system under law -- and Russia would soon compete as a world power.
Those fearful of resurgence of Russian power prefer the surly stagnation of what would come to be called Putinism. The more hopeful of us wish the Russians a better life, but should be careful what we wish for. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: K G B (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: K G B (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (67%); JOURNALISM (67%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TONY BLAIR (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000



786 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: So, You Don't Need the Money?

BYLINE: By Peter J. Wallison; Peter J. Wallison, a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, was counsel to the Treasury Department under President Ronald Reagan.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
For all the debate over education and foreign policy experience, the central dispute of the Republican campaign has come down to taxes and the use of the projected budget surplus. George W. Bush's proposal would return a substantial portion of the surplus to the taxpayers, while John McCain's would leave most of it to pay down the national debt and "save" Social Security.
Supposedly Mr. Bush's plan appeals to traditional Republicans, especially in tax-hostile New Hampshire, while Mr. McCain's recognizes both a broad public desire to pay down the debt and a general lack of interest in a tax cut. But while Mr. McCain's approach may jibe with the national polls -- and with President Clinton's, as demonstrated in last week's State of the Union Message -- it misreads the country's real needs. 
 Americans' taxes should be cut for one overarching reason: to reduce the size of the federal government and stifle its propensity to spend whatever is at hand. But middle-class Americans also need a tax cut as they struggle to raise their families.
Senator McCain rejects the comparison of his plan to President Clinton's, but both are built on the false idea that paying down the federal debt is preferable to a tax cut.
Both Senator McCain and President Clinton argue that deficits cause high interest rates and that the resulting national debt will be a burden on our children. But during the Reagan administration, when budget director David Stockman talked of deficits as far as the eye could see, interest rates steadily declined. Now that we have surpluses as far as the eye can see, interest rates are rising.
The financial market is not concerned about government borrowing; it is concerned about inflation. President Reagan began the long decline in interest rates by backing the Federal Reserve's inflation-fighting program, even through a major recession in the early 80's. Will the debt be a burden on our children? Of course not. The government's liability is an asset for the holders of its bonds: pension funds, mutual funds and individuals. These securities will pass to our children.
But in the here and now, forgoing a tax cut is a real sacrifice for middle-class families. In articles last summer, The New York Times detailed the difficulties that middle-class families were facing, even in these prosperous times, in meeting their many financial obligations. A married couple with one or two children, for example, worked an average of 3,860 hours in 1997, equivalent to more than two full-time jobs and up from 3,236 hours in 1979.
Families' costs for housing and college tuition continue to rise. Americans owe $1.3 trillion on credit cards.
The president's speech contained the usual Clinton sleight-of-hand. Payments on the national debt are not appropriated by Congress like funds for after-school programs or adult technology centers. The debt is paid off automatically when there is a surplus after the spending takes place. If, as a result of spending, there is no surplus, there will be no debt reduction. Hence the sudden enthusiasm in Washington for paying off the national debt: it is a plausible defense against a tax cut that would reduce the surplus before the spending takes place.
As President Clinton recited all the good things he would do with the taxpayers' funds -- and Congress cheered -- one wondered about those middle-class families. Are they reluctant to support a tax cut because they believe the Washington mantra that it will result in higher interest rates or burden their children?
Perhaps they have begun to realize that they are being offered a false choice -- between a tax cut and debt reduction. In reality it is the president and Congress who should be forced, after making a tax cut, to choose between debt reduction and new spending. The results in New Hampshire may tell us whether that message is getting through.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Milan Trenc)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); MARRIAGE (66%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); 

PERSON: WALLISON, PETER J; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000



787 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: Temporary Workers Seeking Code of Conduct for Job Agencies

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: HACKENSACK, N.J.

 BODY:
Meeting once a month at a rundown union hall here, a dozen temporary workers are trying to ignite a campaign to win for the nation's three million temps the benefits that most permanent workers take for granted, like health insurance, sick pay and paid holidays.
The New Jersey workers, working with nonprofit groups here and in half a dozen other states, are drafting a voluntary code of conduct for temp agencies that they say will improve job conditions for the soaring population of temporary workers -- a segment of the labor force that has tripled nationwide in 10 years. 
 The New Jersey temps are planning to make a major push this March, in league with temps in New York, California, Massachusetts and elsewhere, to promote their code in the hope that most of the nation's 7,000 temp agencies, including 600 in New Jersey, will adopt it.
The code calls on agencies to give their lowest-paid workers a "living wage" and to provide health insurance, job training, paid holidays and other benefits. They also want to end a practice they say is widespread in the industry: bait-and-switch job advertising, in which agencies give workers jobs worse than those promised.
"We're trying to help temp workers because temping is such a fast-growing phenomenon and because temp workers face so many injustices," said Barrie Peterson, director of the Bergen County Employment Action Project, the union-backed nonprofit organization that is coordinating the New Jersey efforts to develop and promote a code. "They are paid 70 percent of what people doing comparable permanent jobs earn. They rarely receive health benefits. And you have a lot of temp workers stuck in the same assignment for years and years. That's a real abuse."
The code's sponsors voiced confidence that they would be able to persuade dozens of city councils and county boards, and perhaps even a few state legislatures, to agree to hire only agencies that subscribe to the code -- a move that they said would pressure many agencies to sign on.
Executives at many temp agencies have denounced the code as unnecessary, saying that agencies already know they have to treat temps well if they are to attract workers when unemployment is so low. But even during these boom times, many temps say a code of conduct is the only leverage they have to challenge the industry's ways. Forming a union for temporary workers has proved as hard as herding butterflies, and picketing of agencies that treat temps poorly would open the protesters to being blackballed.
The Bergen County Employment Action Project and a South Carolina advocacy group were the first two organizations to create a code of conduct, and now they are seeking to work with 35 other nonprofit groups to develop and disseminate a model code nationwide.
"We want to encourage agencies to take a high-road approach," Mr. Peterson said. "If we can steer workers and companies to agencies that agree to treat people better, that will presumably create pressure on all agencies to move in that direction."
So far the Bergen County Employment Action Project is the only group in the nation to get temp agencies -- 27 so far -- to sign a code of conduct, and it has sought to reward those agencies by steering workers their way. In San Jose, Calif., Working Partnerships, a nonprofit temp agency as well as a support group for temps, has obtained 500 signatures to petition the county board of supervisors to use only agencies that sign the model code.
As Wisconsin pushes many welfare recipients into temp jobs, 9to5, the National Association of Working Women, which is based in Milwaukee, wants the state to use only agencies that have signed the code. And the Carolina Alliance for Fair Employment is pressing South Carolina's state government, which employed more than 10,000 temps in 1999, to do likewise.
"We want to reward the good agencies and penalize the bad ones," said Charles Taylor, co-director of the Carolina Alliance.
Temp workers are a heterogeneous group, including $7-an-hour janitors, $14-an-hour secretaries and $50-an-hour software designers with Ph.D.'s. Although many Americans choose to temp because they like a flexible schedule, many temps say they would prefer the security and benefits of a permanent job.
The American Staffing Association, the association representing the $60 billion-a-year temp industry, has urged employers not to sign the new code, contending that it is a union-backed plot to make the industry look bad, raise its costs and drive temps into unions.
Executives at many agencies assert that they already comply with most of the code's provisions, like treating workers with respect and not discriminating by race or sex. They say that other code provisions, like health insurance and a so-called living wage, are unrealistically expensive.
"A lot of the things these people say agencies should do, we're already doing," said Barry Franzino, president of Career Center Inc., an agency in Hackensack. "These are our employees, and we take good care of them. The labor market is very tight right now, and that makes it imperative for us to do everything to make sure our workers are happy, because if we don't, they'll go work elsewhere."
Nonetheless, tales of mistreatment abound -- about an agency's making it hard for injured temps to get workers' compensation, about a factory's paying female temps $1.12 an hour less than male temps, about agencies' charging temps for safety equipment for jobs they hold for just one day, about temps' being barred from consideration for permanent job openings at the companies where they are put.
Colleen O'Donnell complained that during her three years of temping in various administrative jobs in northern New Jersey she had received no health insurance, no vacations, no paid holidays and no paid sick days.
Fred Vanderbeek, an engineer downsized out of a longtime job, said that when fears of lengthy commuting made him balk at accepting a temp job 60 miles away, his temp agency threatened to deny him unemployment insurance.
And Joseph Beattie, who worked 20 years as a corporate credit manager before downsizing hit, said he was angry that his temp agency refused to give him leads about permanent jobs.
"It's a caste system," Mr. Beattie said. "And we're the goose that lays the golden egg for these agencies."
Kathleen Christensen, co-author of "Contingent Work: American Employment Relations in Transition" (Cornell University Press, 1998), said: "Temporary workers are disproportionately women, minorities, of limited education, and they have a high degree of job dissatisfaction. A code of conduct could be terrific for them. It will raise public consciousness about the state of temporary workers, and the terms of the code are not unreasonable. They're terms that most people who are full-time employees already work under."
Lab Support, an agency with an office in Elmwood Park, N.J., that specializes in placing scientific personnel, has signed the New Jersey code, concluding that it is easily acceptable because the agency already provides vacation pay, paid sick days, a 401(k) retirement plan and health coverage.
Lab Support pays most of the health insurance premiums. By contrast, many agencies that boast about offering health coverage require temps to pay far more than half the premiums, often amounting to $3,000 or more per year, something many temps cannot afford.
Explaining why Lab Support signed the code, Shelly Carolan, the company's vice president for East Coast operations, said, "It's important to let people know there are agencies that hold high standards and offer good benefits."
Her company is one of 27 signatories listed on a guide to temp agencies that the Bergen County Employment Action Program has circulated in unemployment offices and elsewhere. Being on the list, Ms. Carolan said, has won her company many referrals.
And Lydia Valencia, chief executive of PRC Temps in Lakewood, N.J., said she signed the code because she saw it as a way to lift living standards for poor workers. "I don't believe making a profit has to be at the expense of the workers," she said.
But many agencies are unenthusiastic or even hostile toward the code. Alan Baker, owner of Horizon Personnel, an agency in Parsippany, N.J., signed the original New Jersey code, but said he was less happy about the tougher, model national code. Unlike the New Jersey code, the national code calls for paying a living wage and providing transportation when there are no buses to take temps to their workplaces.
"The code is trying to make sure agencies are honest and legitimate, and I don't have a problem with that," Mr. Baker said. "I provide paid holidays, but I don't provide sick days or health benefits. It would make my administrative costs go up and would make my clients' costs go sky high."
The issue of the living wage is particularly divisive. Some supporters of the code say that means paying $11 or more an hour, while many agencies say client companies are unwilling to pay more than $8 an hour for janitorial or clerical work.
Jeffrey Joerres, chief executive at Manpower Inc., the nation's largest temp agency, said his company already satisfied most of the code's provisions, but he still harbored serious reservations about it. He said that if the code was to catch on nationwide, its backers would first have to hold serious discussions with the industry.
A major reason agency executives give for fighting the code is that they believe the campaign will give the industry a black eye. But Ellen Bravo, co-director of 9to5, said, "Some people say they don't want the code calling negative attention to the industry. It's negative practices, not a code, that call negative attention to the industry."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernardo Perez, on a job at a shopping center parking lot, works for PRC Temps in Lakewood, N.J. Its head, Lydia Valencia, said, "I don't believe making a profit has to be at the expense of the workers." (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 
Chart: "Temporary Help"
The number of temporary workers employed in the United States has nearly tripled since 1990.
 
Graph tracks the average daily employment in temporary help services since 1990.
(Source: American Staffing Association, Quarterly Staffing Survey, 1999)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN STAFFING ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN STAFFING ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STAFFING ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN STAFFING ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT; HEALTH INSURANCE; FRINGE BENEFITS EMPLOYMENT (93%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LIVING WAGE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (66%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000



788 of 788 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2350 words

HEADLINE: FOLK CURES ON TRIAL: A special report.;
ALTERNATIVE CARE GAINS A FOOTHOLD

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
In the year he has suffered from osteoarthritis, Harold Katcoff has followed his doctors' advice, to no avail: aspirin, steroids, the latest anti-inflammatory drugs. The pills, he says, offer little relief from the stabbing pain in the back of his knees. So Mr. Katcoff, an 80-year-old retired pharmacist, is trying Chinese medicine instead. Or at least, he thinks he is.
Every Tuesday and Thursday since late November, Mr. Katcoff has come here, to Kernan Hospital, to see an acupuncturist who pokes him with 20 needles, 9 in each leg and 2 in the belly, and then hooks the probes to a mild electrical current. The patient is convinced that the therapy works. "It's fantastic," Mr. Katcoff says. But in the same breath, he admits that he cannot be certain if the effect is real, or imagined. 
 That is because Mr. Katcoff may be receiving sham acupuncture -- needle sticks in places where, according to the theories of traditional Chinese medicine, they should not do any good. He is a volunteer in a $2.5 million federally financed study, run by a rheumatology professor and a family-practice doctor at the University of Maryland. The study represents a new wave in academic medicine: the application of rigorous, Western scientific methods -- including the gold standard of medical research, the placebo, or fake therapy, as a control -- to test alternative therapies, from ginkgo biloba to shark cartilage to a mystical Chinese healing art known as qi gong.
Just five years ago, many academics would not have gone near such studies, for fear they would become a laughingstock. And while alternative therapies remain hugely controversial in the staid world of science -- "quackupuncture," is how one vocal critic, Dr. Victor Herbert of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, summed up the University of Maryland's work -- large, multimillion-dollar clinical trials are getting under way this year at some of the nation's most prestigious university hospitals.
"The scientific games have begun," declared Dr. David Eisenberg, director of the Center for Alternative Medicine Research and Education at Beth Israel Deaconness Medical Center in Boston. Or, as Dr. Barrie Cassileth, chief of integrative medicine at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, said: "The research is just coming into its maturity. It's bar mitzvah time."
 
The History
Pressure for Increase In U.S. Regulation
The boom is being driven by the National Institutes of Health, which, under pressure from Congress, has sharply increased its budget for studies of alternative medicine. Eight years ago, much to the chagrin of the institutes' leadership, Congress required the institutes to establish an Office of Alternative Medicine, a tiny operation with a budget to match, just $2 million.
"It was," said Dr. Daniel Moerman, a medical anthropologist at the University of Michigan, "like setting up an office of deviltry within the Catholic Church."
But the office is gaining acceptance at the institutes and is setting the tone for scientists around the country. Last year, Congress upgraded the office, making it the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, which means it now has grant-making authority. Its yearly budget has grown to $68 million. In October, a new director came on board, Dr. Stephen E. Straus, a virologist and longtime N.I.H. insider whom Dr. Harold Varmus, the former director of the institutes and once one of the program's biggest detractors, describes as "a really distinguished scientist."
At the same time, hospitals and medical schools are bowing to economic reality: alternative medicine is big business. According to the Nutrition Business Journal, an industry trade publication, Americans spent $27.2 billion in 1998 on providers of alternative health care, including those in chiropractic, traditional Chinese medicine, homeopathy, naturopathy and massage therapy. Sales of herbs are also growing, to $4.4 billion last year, from nearly $2.5 billion in 1995, the journal said.
And a survey of more than 2,000 adults, conducted by Dr. Eisenberg and published in November 1998 in The Journal of the American Medical Association, estimated that 46 percent of the American population had visited a practitioner of alternative health care in 1997, up from 36 percent in 1990. Patients like Mr. Katcoff, who had never before tried alternative therapies, are increasingly doing so.
"Consumers are saying, I want some type of care and I will pay for it out of pocket if I need to," said Dr. Brian Berman, the principal investigator in the Maryland acupuncture study.
But applying Western methods to Eastern traditions may be easier said than done, as Dr. Berman well knows. For one thing, how do you do placebo acupuncture? Dr. Berman and a Chinese colleague, Dr. Lixing Lao, ran several experiments just to figure out a technique that, they say, can reliably fool patients. And medical concepts do not easily translate. The diagnosis "osteoarthritis of the knee" does not exist in traditional Chinese medicine. The closest translation, Dr. Lao said, was "the knee area is energy blocked."
Cultural clashes aside, the work proceeds. At Duke University, 330 patients are being enrolled in a study of St. John's wort, an herb that is thought to relieve mild depression. One-third of the participants will receive the herb, one-third will receive a placebo and one-third will receive Zoloft, a commonly prescribed drug.
In Houston, the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center has just begun testing shark cartilage as a treatment for lung cancer; the study, sponsored by the National Cancer Institute and approved by the Food and Drug Administration, will involve as many as 700 patients who will receive either shark cartilage or a dummy pill in addition to conventional treatment.
And at the University of Michigan, Dr. Steven F. Bolling, a heart transplant surgeon who describes himself as "the high priest of techno-medicine," is surprised to find himself examining whether practitioners of the Chinese art of qi gong can help his cardiac surgery patients recover faster. One-third of the patients in the clinical trial will be visited by a qi gong master, who performs slow-motion exercises that are said to release a healing energy. One-third will be visited by an impostor and one-third will not have visits.
"If it's proven, it works and it helps my patients," Dr. Bolling said, "so be it."
The trend is affecting the training of young doctors as well. Two-thirds of the nation's medical schools now have courses on alternative medicine, many of them to teach doctors how to handle questions from patients. Harvard Medical School is about to begin a fellowship program to train internists in how to conduct research on alternative therapies.
"We need a small army of clinician researchers who will do this work now," said Dr. Eisenberg, the co-director, "and for the next generation."
 
The Politics
Push by Senator Defeats Opposition
The story of how alternative medicine has worked its way into the mainstream of research begins not with scientists, but politicians.
In the late 1980's, Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, became chairman of the subcommittee that holds the purse strings to N.I.H. At about that time, Mr. Harkin said, a friend, Representative Berkley Bedell of Iowa, became ill with Lyme disease and prostate cancer, and resigned from Congress. "A couple of years after that, Berkley came to see me and he looked like a new man," Mr. Harkin said. "He told me about a strange cure he had taken, an alternative approach. I was just amazed."
Mr. Harkin has since become an aficionado of alternative medicine himself: He takes bee pollen for his allergies, a practice that critics find silly. But Mr. Harkin may have had the last laugh. In 1991, he inserted a provision into the N.I.H. appropriations bill requiring the institutes to create an Office of Alternative Medicine, with a $2 million budget.
"They fought it and fought it and fought it," he said in an interview. "You'd think I was single-handedly destroying N.I.H. by spending $2 million on alternative therapies."
The amount was indeed a drop in the bucket for the institutes, an agency that now has a $15 billion annual budget. The tiny office on alternative care was set up in a remote outpost, nowhere near the institutes' main campus in Bethesda, Md. Its mission was complicated. Alternative medicine is such a vast conglomeration of practices, ranging from the use of vitamins and herbs, to meditation, massage, movement therapy and acupuncture, that even its practitioners cannot agree on what to call it. (The terms "complementary," "integrative" and "alternative" are used interchangeably.)
The office began by offering small grants of $30,000 each. Soon, it was drawing fierce criticism for spending taxpayers' money on projects of dubious scientific merit. "The quality was incredibly low," said Dr. Varmus, who is now executive director of Memorial Sloan-Kettering. "The investigators who were applying didn't really know much about science."
In 1994, Congress took a step that would have a major effect on patients' access to alternative therapies. It passed a law that permits manufacturers to make claims about health benefits for herbal medicines whose safety and effectiveness had not been proved by the usual standards applied to prescription drugs. Now, said Dr. Cassileth, of Memorial Sloan-Kettering, "everybody can play doctor and buy anything they want over the counter and treat themselves." Good research became even more necessary, she said.
But the battles at N.I.H. continued. The alternative medicine office ran through a string of directors. The man who took the job in 1995, Dr. Wayne B. Jonas, drew criticism because he practiced homeopathy, a 200-year-old system of medicine in which illnesses are often treated with diluted solutions of plant extracts. Most mainstream scientists, including Dr. Varmus, take a dim view of homeopathy. As a result, said Dr. Jonas, who left the institutes at the end of 1998, he had a difficult time getting approval of proposals to finance research.
But as Congress continued to appropriate more money for the office and public interest grew, Dr. Varmus said, "I came to feel that there was a real public health concern that N.I.H. had a responsibility to address."
By 1996, the alternative medicine office had moved onto the main institutes' campus, and Dr. Varmus had formed an advisory group of government scientists to set priorities. The alternative medicine literature contains thousands of studies, but the majority are scientifically flawed. Dr. Varmus wants scientists to test the most promising and most widely used therapies.
But the critics remain. Dr. Herbert, the Mount Sinai professor, calls the center on alternative medicine "a worthless waste of money" that was "set up to promote fraud."
Dr. Marcia Angell, the editor of The New England Journal of Medicine, said the center had so far failed to publish any significant articles in scientific journals. "The proof is in the pudding," Dr. Angell said. "Just show me the papers."
That may take some time. It will be three to four years, Dr. Straus predicts, before the current crop of clinical trials is complete. Still, in a recent interview, Dr. Straus came armed with two loose-leaf notebooks full of articles that had grown from N.I.H.-financed research, some published in the respected Journal of the American Medical Association.
He acknowledged that the center "still has to prove itself." But, he said, "I predict it will."
 
The Research
Holding Future Of New Therapy
For the American health care system, the implications of the new research will be vast, medically and economically. Health maintenance organizations are just beginning to cover some alternative therapies; Oxford Health Plans, for instance, offers coverage for acupuncture. If therapies being tested prove effective, patients will undoubtedly begin demanding coverage.
The new research could be a boon to manufacturers of herbs. Several manufacturers of dietary supplements are beginning studies of products such as ginkgo and St. John's wort that could lead to their approval by the F.D.A., in the same way the agency approves prescription drugs, said Michael McGuffin, president of the American Herbal Products Association, a trade group.
The University of Pittsburgh, meanwhile, is joining Chinese scientists to develop herbal medicines as drugs. In addition, Dr. Steven DeKosky, who directs the university's Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, has also received a $3 million N.I.H. grant to see if the ginkgo herb can prevent dementia. Two thousand elderly patients will be enrolled. If it works, he said, the next step will be to isolate the active ingredients and figure out how they work.
Some researchers, including Dr. Eisenberg of Harvard, say alternative therapies will not be truly accepted as mainstream until scientists can prove not just that they work, but how. But already, medical practice is opening up, said Dr. Marc C. Hochberg, the rheumatology professor at the University of Maryland who is an investigator in the acupuncture study.
This year, acupuncture was mentioned for the first time in the American College of Rheumatology's guidelines for medical management of osteoarthritis of the knee. "Our work has opened people's eyes," he said. "This used to be in the same ball park as copper bracelets. I think we have taken acupuncture for osteoarthritis out of that realm."
Still, Dr. Hochberg said, an important question remains: does the acupuncture really work, or is it just the placebo effect? Dr. Hochberg hopes to have an answer by 2002.
As for Mr. Katcoff, he is sold. He said he had been reading up on Chinese medicine, and had learned that even people who did not believe in it could benefit.
"I think I'm getting the real goods," he said recently. "I've been going twice a week, and this is my fifth week, and I can honestly say that the pains in the back of my legs are gone."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alternative care is becoming much more popular. At Kernan Hospital, Dr. Lixing Lao used acupuncture to treat a patient, Ruth Young. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 
Chart/Graph: "ADDING IT UP: Other Therapies"
Alternative medicine has grown into a multibillion-dollar industry.
 
THE BOOMING INDUSTRY
 
1998 ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE
PROVIDERS
 
TOTAL $27 BILLION
 
Chiropractic: 54%
Massage Therapy: 25%
Traditional Chinese Medicine and Acupuncture: 14%
Homeopathy: 2%
Naturopathy: 2%
 
GOVERNMENT ALLOCATIONS
The National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, part of the National Institutes of Health, has seen its budget grow substantially since it began.
 
Graph shows fiscal year budget in millions from 1990.
 
(Sources: National Institutes of Health, Nutrition Business Journal)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (91%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (91%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RESEARCH ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (92%); ANALGESICS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS (90%); STEROIDS (90%); ARTHRITIS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); HERBAL MEDICINE (77%); PHARMACISTS (77%); CANCER (73%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); 

PERSON: STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY HAROLD KATCOFF (83%); BRIAN BERMAN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

 
