

601 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: The Winning Thing

BYLINE: By Martin Tolchin; Martin Tolchin is a correspondent in the Washington bureau of The New York Times and the author, with Susan J. Tolchin, of "Selling Our Security: The Erosion of America's Assets," to be published this month.

 BODY:

MARCHING IN PLACE
The Status Quo Presidency of George Bush.
By Michael Duffy and Dan Goodgame.
316 pp. New York: Simon & Schuster. $23. 
 GEORGE BUSH is really a nice guy. A ruthless competitor, perhaps, but a "classy" fellow, "exceptionally well mannered, modest, restrained, generous and considerate of others." So say Michael Duffy and Dan Goodgame, Time magazine's White House correspondents, in their lively, informative book, "Marching in Place: The Status Quo Presidency of George Bush."
From them we learn that the President excels at personal diplomacy, that he is an inveterate writer of thank-you notes and that he calls his 91-year-old mother in Greenwich, Conn., nearly every day. There is no mention, however, of the Clarence Thomas hearings, or of Mr. Bush's cynicism in proclaiming Mr. Thomas the most qualified candidate in the country for the United States Supreme Court, and only passing reference to the savings and loan scandal, with none at all to his son Neil's reprimand by Federal regulators in connection with a failed thrift institution. Nor do the authors comment on the questions raised in the news media about the propriety of some business dealings by his brother Prescott.
Nevertheless, the book is a valuable primer on the Bush Presidency. The theme: George Bush is an elitist who believes in winning at all costs, the better to preserve the status quo.
The authors debunk Mr. Bush's self-portrait of his young adulthood. After Yale, far from striking out in a bold break with "the comfort and connections of his East Coast roots," Mr. Bush was offered a job in Odessa, Tex., with a company whose chairman was one of his father's closest friends. The authors report that "the new red Studebaker station wagon that Bush often describes as the chariot of his independence was bought for him by his family." And the Bush family helped young George along with a $300,000 grubstake.
Mr. Duffy and Mr. Goodgame track the political pragmatism that led Mr. Bush to repudiate his abortion-rights views and embrace the Reagan economic program he had derided in the 1980 Republican primaries as "voodoo economics." Is there a there there? Did Mr. Bush believe in anything besides winning?
To capture the Republican nomination for himself after eight years as Ronald Reagan's Vice President, Mr. Bush unabashedly courted Republican conservatives, who reluctantly joined "his only real base: the roughly 10 million Republicans who identified closely with Bush's background, experience, wealth and breeding." Mr. Bush then successfully wooed Reagan Democrats and suburban independents to gain the Presidency.
In their description of the Bush White House, the authors devote almost an entire chapter (entitled "Color Me Bad") to John Sununu, the former chief of staff, with his penchant for the gratuitous insult. Mr. Sununu lost his temper even with his conservative supporters. Edwin Feulner, the president of the Heritage Foundation, who had been upbraided by Mr. Sununu, warned him that "there's going to come a point, somewhere in your career, when you're going to find that you need somebody broader and deeper in your corner than the one man in the Oval Office." Indeed, when that time finally came, even his conservative allies turned against him.
Mr. Duffy and Mr. Goodgame believe that the President's slow response to the recession underscores his failure to appreciate the concerns of average Americans. They say that Mr. Bush "lacks any fingertip feel for what it is to be a member of the wage-earning middle class in America." Chauffeured to school during the Depression, he has spent his life "surrounded by other white, well-educated, well-connected men with money behind them and bright futures ahead."
The President was angered by this book, although it is evenhanded, down to its title. After all, his critics contend that from his judicial appointments to his positions on a multitude of domestic issues, Mr. Bush has been leading a retreat from social responsibility. That is certainly worse than simply "marching in place."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MARCHING IN PLACE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ODESSA, UKRAINE (53%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ODESSA, UKRAINE (53%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS US PRESIDENTS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (67%); BANK FAILURES (67%); SAVINGS & LOANS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ABORTION (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN; DUFFY, MICHAEL; GOODGAME, DAN GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); CLARENCE THOMAS (73%); JOHN SUNUNU (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



602 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: The End of Racism, and Other Fables

BYLINE: By Linda Greenhouse; Linda Greenhouse covers the United States Supreme Court for The New York Times.

 BODY:

FACES AT THE BOTTOM OF THE WELL
The Permanence of Racism.
By Derrick Bell.
222 pp. New York:
Basic Books. $20. 
 IN Derrick Bell's view, discourse about race in America is mired in the sugarcoated myth that equality for blacks will be found just around the corner, as soon as the country completes its fitful but inevitably progressive journey toward enlightenment and justice.
The myth is sweet but ultimately disabling and dangerous, he believes, because it denies to both blacks and whites understanding of a truth that is almost exactly the opposite: that racism is not a passing phase but a permanent feature of American life, and that the path is marked not by real progress but by occasional short-lived judicial or legislative victories that serve to obscure the underlying truth even more.
Both in his writing and by his actions, Mr. Bell, one of the country's most prominent scholars of race and the law, has spent years trying to bring this message both to other blacks and to the white-majority institutions in which he has worked. Most notable of these is Harvard Law School, where, more than 20 years ago, he became the first black faculty member to receive tenure. Two years ago he vowed to remain on an unpaid leave until the law school hired a black woman for its tenured faculty. In July, Harvard Law School refused to extend his leave for a third year and informed him that his failure to return meant he had relinquished his position on the faculty, which still includes no tenured black women. He is currently a visiting professor at New York University Law School.
Without directly addressing this episode, Mr. Bell's new book, "Faces at the Bottom of the Well: The Permanence of Racism," nonetheless makes it appear not only understandable but almost inevitable. Like his previous book, "And We Are Not Saved: The Elusive Quest for Racial Justice," this one approaches his theme indirectly, through allegory, fables and dialogues with a fictional "lawyer-prophet," a mordantly wise black woman named Geneva Crenshaw, whose role is to goad and inspire the professor-narrator to confront the truth without the sugarcoating.
These are fables with footnotes as well as irony: Jonathan Swift come to law school. Harvard figures prominently, as does the Supreme Court; most of the stories began as seminar teaching tools to prod students to re-examine old assumptions. There is the "Racial Preference Licensing Act," for example, a new Federal law of Ms. Crenshaw's design under which white business owners could obtain a license that would free them to discriminate openly, rather than covertly as they do at present, against black employees and customers. In return for this privilege, the whites would pay a 3 percent tax into an "equality fund" that would be used to support business opportunities and education for blacks.
When Mr. Bell objects that the Racial Preference Licensing Act is too farfetched even for him, Ms. Crenshaw accuses him of holding on to an outdated faith in "the civil rights ideals that events long ago rendered obsolete." The new law, she says, could be more effective than "those laws that now provide us the promise of protection without either the will or the resources to honor that promise." Ms. Crenshaw sternly reminds Mr. Bell that he himself has written that "whatever the civil rights law or constitutional provision, blacks gain little protection against one or another form of racial discrimination unless granting blacks a measure of relief will serve some interest of importance to whites."
There is the story of Afrolantica, a mysterious lost continent that arises from the ocean. The evidence that, for some unknown reason, only black Americans can breathe the air on the beautiful island leads to a vigorous debate over whether they should move there and claim it as their homeland.
ONE of the most effective fables, and by far the most chilling, is the tale of the Space Traders -- creatures from another planet who offer the United States the solution to all its economic and environmental ills in exchange for one thing: its black population, which would be carried off to an unknown fate in outer space. The story becomes a canvas for Mr. Bell's portraits of the wise, foolish, weak, strong and venal characters of both races who respond to this challenge to the national soul. That the outcome is predictable makes it no less heartbreaking.
Not every fable in "Faces at the Bottom of the Well" -- the title reflects the author's vision of the place of blacks in American society -- has the sure touch of the Space Traders tale. Some wander from their theme, and there is some settling of personal scores. But this book well serves the goal Mr. Bell describes to Geneva Crenshaw, of "attempting to sing a new scholarly song -- even if to some listeners our style is strange, our lyrics unseemly." The stories challenge old assumptions and then linger in the mind in a way that a more conventionally scholarly treatment of the same themes would be unlikely to do.
Mr. Bell does not hold out hope for success in objectively measurable terms. Rather, he says -- putting the words in the mouth of a white female guerrilla fighter for black survival in one of the fables -- "there is satisfaction in the struggle itself," a "salvation through struggle."
In this starkly existentialist vision, a commitment to pressing on in the face of absurdity, Derrick Bell draws as much from Albert Camus as from Martin Luther King. In an epilogue, constructed as a letter to Geneva Crenshaw, he writes: "We yearn that our civil rights work will be crowned with success, but what we really want -- want even more than success -- is meaning. . . . This engagement and commitment is what black people have had to do since slavery: making something out of nothing."
 
 
 
RACIAL REALISM
 Erika looked thoughtful. . . . "We call ourselves White Citizens for Black Survival, or WCBS. Our program has two prongs. First, the policy phase we call 'racial realism.' Then the activist phase, in which we aim to build a nationwide network of secret shelters to house and feed black people in the event of a black holocaust or some other all-out attack on America's historic scapegoats."
"A late-20th-century underground railroad!" I exclaimed. "You can't be serious?"
"You -- and other blacks as well -- need to get serious. What precisely would you do if they came for you? How would you protect your family? Where could you go? How get there? You have money. Could you get access to it if the Government placed a hold on the assets in your checking and savings accounts?" -- From "Faces at the Bottom of the Well."
 
 
 
'THE TRUTH IS NEVER DESPAIRING'
 Derrick Bell says that while he was writing "Faces at the Bottom of the Well," his publisher referred to the book as "unremittingly despairing." It argues that America is a racist country and always will be. Mr. Bell says he responded: "No, you don't understand. For a black person in this society, the truth is never despairing."
In an interview at his office at New York University Law School, Mr. Bell said that when he explains his thoughts on race to black groups these days, he hears the laughter and applause of recognition. "It reaffirms that it is not their fault," he said. "It is an affirmation of themselves and not a basis for despair."
The 61-year-old author said he reached his bleak conclusions over the course of a career in civil rights that he now believes was misdirected. Despite all the change over the years, he said, blacks are worse off and more subjugated than at any time since slavery. The only difference now is that there is "a more effective, more sophisticated means of domination."
But he also believes in the importance of struggling anyway. He has fought many such battles himself, the most recent being his protest against the absence of a black woman on the Harvard Law School faculty. On June 30, his 23-year tenure there was revoked after he refused to end a two-year leave of absence.
He will teach at N.Y.U. this year, but he has no definite plans after that. He is working on two new books. One is a collection of student essays on law and race; the other, drawing from his own experiences, is tentatively entitled "Constructing Character Through Confrontation."
Every time Mr. Bell has quit a job in frustration or protest, he said, things have worked out well. He recognizes that not everyone always gets such good results. "What you can say without reservation is that to stand up when everybody else is sitting down, to leave a job when you think it's intolerable, you feel better," he said. "It may not be long before you can't pay the bills, but there's a sense that you did the right thing." -- JON ELSEN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Derrick Bell. (Ken Shung/Basic Books)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FACES AT THE BOTTOM OF THE WELL (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD LAW SCHOOL (56%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD LAW SCHOOL (56%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY LAW SCHOOL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ACADEMIC TENURE (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); WOMEN (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (70%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; BELL, DERRICK MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



603 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: ON LANGUAGE;
Wedges and Bounces

BYLINE: By WIlliam Safire

 BODY:
America is back up on wedgies. Remember those triangulated, high-soled shoes of the 40's that incorporated the heel and turned the fashionable woman into an endangered species? They're back -- not merely in the form of platform soles, but planks in political platforms.
In 1990, as Bush White House aides fought over the degree to which affirmative action guidelines became quotas, the former Carter adviser Stuart E. Eizenstat said with some prescience that the Republicans had "a need to give the Reagan Democrats red meat at a time when the economy is going into the tank, and they see civil rights and quotas as a wedge issue." 
 Recalling this early usage and perhaps coinage, Mr. Eizenstat tells me: "I was looking for a phrase to illustrate the attempt to split the coalition of working-class whites and blacks, the two constituencies Roosevelt unified on economic grounds. The image came to mind of a wedge being driven."
It filled a political-linguistic need for fresh labels. Another Democrat, the Clinton strategist James Carville, charged two years later that President Bush's advisers, bereft of an agenda, had to "dust off the Republican manual, which is to go to wedge issues: 'We can't lead the country so maybe we can divide it.' "
As a phrase, wedge issue is related to the 80's hot-button issue, which was an updating of the 70's polarization. Wedge, with earthy Indo-European roots as both verb and noun, strikes me as an improvement over the Latinate polarize and polarization.
Wedge issue is a political attack locution, usually used by liberals and moderates, aimed at politicians on the right who bring up sensitive cultural and social subjects during political campaigns. The dividing wedge, however, need not be racial: free trade is seen by the right as a wedge issue to use to divide workers and environmentalists on the left.
Here is a synonymy of the issues issue: a switcher issue -- like gun control or abortion -- is a single subject that will cause a minority of voters to change their vote regardless of other patterns, urges or habits (resulting in a bullet vote).
A hot-button issue -- like perks for big shots or global warming -- will cause a potential voter to become agitated, but not necessarily to the point of switching allegiance; touching this button causes audiences to roar or hoot, and is synonymous with red meat, the figure of speech drawn from the excited reaction of carnivorous animals when food is thrown into their cage.
A gut issue has a wider visceral appeal: the intestinal matter on this year's agenda is the slow growth of the economy, expressed in the single word "jobs." This bread-and-butter issue can also be the burning issue if it is dramatized, but if the opposition fails to ignite it, the subject is better described as the paramount issue. As an issue fades, it becomes characterized as a yawner.
 
PEROTIAN ALERT
 I MISS ROSS PEROT. NOT only did he apply the traffic term gridlock to divided-party government, but also the jug-eared, thin-skinned executive generated the most derisive sobriquet of the current campaign, as his betrayed supporters called him "the yellow Ross of Texas."
In Forbes magazine's 75th anniversary issue, Peggy Noonan, the former Reagan-Bush speechwriter who has developed the art of impressionism in political prose, summarized the voters' view of the horseless head man in a poetic trope: "They looked at him and saw a hand grenade with a bad haircut."
<HH>THE WAY THE POLL BOUNCES
 "IT'S PARTLY A convention bounce," Gov. Bill Clinton said after his poll ratings shot up in July.
As August ended and the Republicans had convened in Houston, the Bush-Quayle ratings improved somewhat and The Christian Science Monitor wrote, "It represents a routine convention bounce." Newsweek, in its Conventional Wisdom Watch, asked, "Why does the CW worry about the 'convention  bounce' if the CW also says the bounce dissipates within two weeks?"
The much-discussed convention bounce is a temporary rise in the opinion polls caused by the television exposure and print commentary during a party's national convention. As The Associated Press reported in 1988, "The convention bounce usually settles down as voters focus on the issues of the race."
Bounce has triumphed over the variant bump. Who coined the phrase? In 1980, the Carter Presidential spokesman, Jody Powell, used the term to mean a psychological lift: he said that the increase in President Carter's rating was "the post-convention bounce we hoped for." In a dozen years, the post- prefix has worn off.
 
WORDS OF WISDOM
 PHRASE JUNKIES ARE always on the lookout for political axioms, adages and proverbs.
Bert Lance's "If it ain't broke, don't fix it" has become a source of inspiration to anti-activists. Dwight Morrow's "Any party which takes credit for the rain must not be surprised if its opponents blame it for the drought" is being ruefully repeated by supporters of George Bush. Economists eager to fine-tune the economy turn to the wisdom attributed to the gangster Al Capone: "You can get a lot more done with a kind word and a gun, than with a kind word alone."
A subcategory in this field is "forgiveness, political," headed by the quotation attributed to the Kennedy brothers: "Forgive but don't forget." An addition to this store of sophisticated sagacity has been provided by the newscaster Jim Lehrer, in his new, breezily profound memoir, "A Bus of My Own" (Putnam). He notes in passing that some former associates tried to do him in, and then forgives them, but not completely: "As a prominent Oklahoma politician says a lot," Lehrer writes, " 'Show me somebody who can't tell his friends from his enemies and I'll show you somebody who's going to end up with no friends.' "

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PLATFORMS & ISSUES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (87%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); LINGUISTICS (73%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (72%); ANIMALS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); GUN CONTROL (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM GEORGE W BUSH (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



604 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 2; Page 30; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
The Thrill of Outer Space for Earthbound Lives

BYLINE: By Herbert Muschamp

 BODY:
AN ANNIVERSARY IS UPON US, and attention must be paid. It has been 25 years since the opening of Atlanta's Hyatt Regency Hotel, the first of the atrium-style extravaganzas created by the architect and developer John Portman. Is it possibly redundant to celebrate this milestone? After all, the Portman atrium has been a nonstop celebration for the past quarter century. A festive mix of fountains, flapping banners and light-bulb-studded elevators rising to the skies like effervescent bubbles, the Portman atrium is architecture at happy hour. It's a building that's gone out of town to a convention, determined to have a blast.
Still, a toast is in order for a concept that set out to give pleasure and in fact did so. Architects work with space, and few architects of this century have created such drama out of three dimensions. Twenty-three stories tall, set off by balconies carpeted a rich red, the Atlanta atrium presented space as the ultimate luxury. Here, the empty void became a commodity as precious as the marble and gold that adorned the grand hotels of the Edwardian age. 
 Portman's is not a subtle space. With its elevators hurtling into the firmament like space capsules, the enclosed court is less Apollo than Apollo Space Program. It injects into earthbound lives the thrill of America's first ventures into outer space. Portman was our leading scientist of inner space. Psychologically as well as physically introverted, his voids maintained a constant emotional pitch with their suave blend of pleasure and terror, cocktails and vertigo.
In his later hotels, like the Bonaventure in Los Angeles and the Peachtree Center Plaza in Atlanta, the rocket imagery was even more explicit. Towering round cylinders encased in mirrored glass, these buildings evoked silos from which missiles might momentarily erupt. But where were these spaceships headed? For buildings, outer space is the city, and in this realm Portman's space mission sadly fizzled. Indeed, his introverted architecture remains a conspicuous symbol of what went wrong with cities over the past quarter century: the accelerating retreat from the public realm into enclaves of private luxury.
The most glaring example appeared in 1977, with Portman's design for Renaissance Center in Detroit. Though $357 million was poured into the project in the hope of stirring the revival of this economically depressed city, the complex of office buildings, retail shops and a hotel sat isolated from the urban context within a gleaming fortress. Suburban shoppers could drive into the Renaissance without setting foot downtown.
Portman's Marriott Marquis Hotel, in Times Square, also imposes a barrier between the atrium and the city outside. With a lobby lodged eight stories above street level, as though guests should ideally arrive by helicopter, the hotel affronts the street with gloomy overhangs and a midblock driveway. The effect is to turn the sidewalk into a subterranean parking garage.
But the exclusionary thrust of the design is secondary to an eager inclusiveness that coerces people to eat, drink, shop and sleep within the hotel walls. Tourists encounter the city only visually here, through windows of the revolving rooftop cocktail lounge where machinery, rather than visitors' feet, dictates the view. Throughout the hotel, design issues a protective order that makes the city outside a forbidding presence, mercifully kept at bay.
In 1976, with the city planner Jonathan Barnett, Portman co-authored a manifesto, "The Architect as Developer." It is clear from the text that he believed his concept contributed something valuable to urban life. He writes perceptively of the failure of Modern city planning, of the architect's responsibility to re-engage the public. But a Portman atrium is not, of course, a public space. It is a tightly controlled private environment outfitted with the trappings of public space: openness, fountains, trees, bustling crowds. At the Marriott Marquis, there's even a town clock. But this visual dissembling is exploitive, if not sinister, especially considering that Portman received concessions from the public sector in the hope that the hotel would help revive Times Square.
The fact remains, however, that John Portman made a genuine effort to imagine some form of public life at a time when the very concept was in crisis. For by the mid-1960's, America's older industrial cities had witnessed the collapse of two overarching ideas that had governed their design: the historicism of the 19th-century City Beautiful movement and the rationalism of the Modern movement. And the era's most influential minds were opposed to new master-plan approaches. In 1961, Jane Jacobs had argued persuasively that diversity, not unified order, was what made cities live. A decade later, as Portman's second atrium hotel arose at O'Hare Airport in Chicago, Richard Sennett championed "the social uses of disorder."
Given this climate, it is not surprising that architecture turned inward, or that, when Federal support for urban renewal began to wane in the 1970's, projects by private entrepreneurs like Portman and James Rouse were hailed as the answer to the urban crisis. And to an extent the optimism was well founded. Projects like Portman's took a step in the right direction -- toward the city. In doing so, they confronted the problem underlying the urban crisis: the old American tradition of build and move on; leave your messes behind you; there will always be a new place to start over.
By the 1960's there was no new place to start over, except, perhaps, the moon. On Earth, as the urbanist Charles Abrams aptly phrased it, the city was the frontier, and so it remains. Portman made little effort to adapt to frontier life. His atriums shifted the controlled order of the suburban mall to disordered downtown locations. At best, they marked a transition between the old industrial city and some post-industrial metropolis that will not emerge until architects, planners and developers have realized more integrated approaches to urban design. But if Portman did not bring this new city into being, he created glorious space capsules for the voyage to it. So it's Happy Birthday, Dear Atrium -- but hold the happy returns.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Study for the face of an angel, by Fra Bartolommeo -- A vein of tenderness. (Boymans-van Beuningen Museum, Rotterdam)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: H (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (59%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (59%); 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (59%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (59%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS ANNIVERSARIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); SPACE EXPLORATION (73%); RETAILERS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (50%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; PORTMAN, JOHN JOHN CALVIN PORTMAN JR (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



605 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: THE PARTY CRASHER

 BODY:
The Republican and Democratic parties offer a big enough tent for everyone who wants to arm-wrestle over abortion, prayer in school, women in combat or, yes, family values. ("The Party Crasher," by Theodore J. Lowi, Aug. 23). But if you are one of those boring people in the center whose main concern is affordable health care, decent schools for the kids, a job and a secure pension, you are out in the political cold.
Theodore Lowi's article marks a turning point. Apparently, it is no longer wacko to yearn for a third party. Used to be, the very term conjured up an image of William Jennings Bryan campaigning for free silver or John Anderson running on a vague platform that no one remembers. 
 But Lowi's third party is about the center, not the fringe; about economic policy and change, not issues and wrangling. The people supporting Tsongas and Perot were releasing a primal scream from the middle class that the way we are conducting our public business is simply not good enough.
 
WILLIAM A. DONLON
Annapolis, Md.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (79%); 

CITY: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (88%); FAMILY (88%); WOMEN (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); ABORTION (73%); CHURCH & STATE (72%); RELIGION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: LOWI, THEODORE J THEODORE J LOWI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



606 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut and Westchester;
Trammell Crow Thriving on Rental Units

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
WHILE many Connecticut developers have struggled to stay afloat in the recession, Trammell Crow, one of the nation's largest builders, has constructed 2,261 rental apartments in the state since 1986 and is building about 1,300 more.
Projects in Stamford, Hamden, Middletown and Manchester have rented quickly, attracting tenants with reasonable prices, traditional New England architecture, recreational facilities, security personnel and in-house management. Rents range from $589 for a one-bedroom unit at Town Place in Middletown to $1,525 for three bedrooms at Town Glen in Stamford. 
 Town Walk in Hamden is the most ambitious development, a village for young and old, eventually to have some 1,600 rental apartments, condominiums, one-family homes and elderly life-care facilities on 135 acres. Most of the first 430 units have been rented since the opening in March.
Paul Nickeloff, a 24-year-old salesman, took a one-bedroom unit for $650. "I have a fireplace, my deck overlooks a creek, I'm 50 yards from the swimming pool and everybody gets to know everybody else," he said.
Jacqueline Grenier rooms with two other women in a three-bedroom unit for $995. "My parents like it so much they plan to move here when they retire," she said.
Trammell Crow employs focus groups to study the market before embarking on development, a technique widely used by advertising agencies and political parties to mine public opinion. By the time a project opens, it offers what prospective tenants have indicated is their heart's desire in housing.
One of the company's newest ventures and one that would be an innovation for the Northeast, is a proposal for 240 bikini-sized apartments of 270 square feet on Washington Boulevard in downtown Stamford. It would cost $8 million and rents would be around $500 a month, less than the city's low-end average of $750.
"I think this kind of development meets a definite need in the community," said Jon Smith, Stamford's planning director. "We have nothing like it. The alternative is an old apartment or the 'Y,' where there are no vacancies."
The city's zoning board amended its regulations earlier this year to permit up to 304 units, but the Connecticut Housing Finance Authority in Hartford turned the proposal down, in part because it was too big, when Trammell Crow applied for affordable-housing subsidies.
"There were concerns about the size of the project," said Gary King, head of the housing agency, "and its long-term viability."
In addition, state officials appeared to be startled by such an unusual proposal.
"The state has no mechanism for dealing with single-room occupancy housing," said Christopher Cooper, information officer for the State Department of Housing.
Trammell Crow is pushing forward with the project. Charles H. Berman, director of Trammell Crow's Connecticut operations, based in New Canaan, said the company was confident it could find financing.
The concept of a roughly 12- by 22-foot unit with a half-height refrigerator, a small stove, and a shower but no bathtub, harks back to the boarding houses and single-room-occupancy hotels of decades ago. Some still exist, usually in woeful condition.
CONSTRUCTION of new ones is virtually unknown in the Northeast, but thousands have been built or rehabilitated in California. Some 1,200 units of 80 to 300 square feet were built by the San Diego Housing Commission in the 80's and an additional 3,000 have been built by private developers or rebuilt in old downtown San Diego hotels during urban renewal.
"We've averaged 92 percent occupancy since we opened the first project in 1987," said Arnold Fischer of 197 Partnership, San Diego developers, in a telephone interview. The units vary in size from 120 to 320 square feet and in price from $370 to $550. "The demand keeps increasing," he said. "San Francisco has been down here to look, and built its own, and so has St. Louis."
Mr. Berman of Trammell Crow believes that "single-room apartments address a segment of the population that hasn't been serviced in a long time -- people with incomes up to $24,000."
"Women and Social Security retirees in particular want a safe, clean place to come home to," he added. "Stamford is a perfect location because of its extensive numbers of entry-level people."
Amenities planned for the building include air-conditioning, laundries, library, social room, fitness center, 24-hour doorman and parking, contained in a four-story structure resembling a country inn.
Stamford's acceptance of affordable housing is somewhat rare in Connecticut. Ever since the state's Affordable Housing and Use Appeals Law went into effect in 1990, allowing developers to appeal local rejection of affordable housing proposals, the courts have been pelted with dozens of suits.
The law shifts the burden of proof from developers, who formerly had to demonstrate that their projects were within zoning regulations or otherwise not harmful. Now it is the local commissions that must prove such projects are indeed harmful in order to reject them. "It gets to the heart of exclusionary zoning," said Mr. Cooper of the State Department of Housing.
LAST March, Judge Marshall K. Berger Jr. in Superior Court rejected Trumbull's objections to rezoning for a 600-unit Trammell Crow rental project on 40 acres along Old Town Road, where 20 percent, or 120 units, would be affordable. The town, with only 2 percent of its housing affordable, has until Oct. 2 to come up with an alternative or risk having the judge order the complex built.
Last month, zoning was approved in New Canaan for Trammell Crow's $16 million residential-retail project on Elm Street. Twenty percent of the 104 apartments will rent below the state's affordable limit of $1,400, based on incomes in the area.
On a 35-acre tract optioned in Darien, the company wants to build 200 units, of which 40 would be affordable, but a dispute between two landowners must first be resolved.
The 20-percent affordable program, subsidized through various state and Federal agencies, "is not a burden on school systems," said Mr. Berman, addressing a frequently repeated concern. "Low-income developments with two- and three-bedroom units attract a lot of schoolchildren. But with 80 percent market rate units you don't get many children because families able to pay the market rate buy or rent a house."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Town Walk units in Hamden, Conn. The complex, for young and old, will grow to about 1,600 apartments. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (90%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (90%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (90%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (90%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRAMMEL CROW REAL ESTATE TRAMMELL CROW CO (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRAMMEL CROW REAL ESTATE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); ZONING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); FOCUS GROUPS (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (64%); POLITICS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



607 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 3; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: A Small Uptick In New Housing

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
A MODEST increase in residential construction, mostly impelled by the rebirth of projects that had gone bust, has taken place in parts of the New York metropolitan region.
The activity hardly amounts to a boom. Indeed, home builders, battered by the recession, a tightening of commercial credit and a dearth of consumer confidence, may be suffering through the worst times since World War II. 
 The revival of distressed projects, though, is presenting many developers with what may be their only opportunity to work.
"There is not a lot of construction going on, and this is keeping people alive and staying in the business," said Alec W. Ornstein, the president of Ornstein Leyton Company of Garden City, L.I., which specializes in buying, marketing and selling distressed properties.
The activity is also presenting many people with an opportunity to buy homes at a discount. For example, in July, Carmine L. Fantasia of Lake Hiawatha, N.J., bought an unbuilt two-bedroom town house at Sunrise at Hanover in Whippany, N.J., for $120,000 from K. Hovnanian of Red Bank, N.J. The unit was part of a project that had been taken over by the company the same month following a bank foreclosure. Originally, the units were priced at about $200,000.
"I got great value for the property," said Mr. Fantasia, a 65-year-old retired postal worker who now owns a coffee shop. "There were ones that were already built that were being offered for $89,000, but the newer ones are supposed to be even nicer."
He said that the price and the builder were the big factors for selecting the Hovnanian house. "I didn't want to get involved with a builder who was going to fall into trouble like so many of the others, so I went with a big established one like Hovnanian," he said.
Large developers, such as K. Hovnanian, may be positioned to benefit the most from the revival, because they are not as reliant on outside financing and are more easily able to obtain distressed properties from banks and the Resolution Trust Corporation, which is in charge of liquidating the foreclosed real estate, loans and other assets held by defunct savings and loans.
These developers are also able, thanks to the depressed economy, to buy additional land, if necessary, and complete the projects for less.
"There hasn't been a real strong uptick in construction," said Merle H. Huseth, president of the Northeast Region for K. Hovnanian. "But there has been a smaller one because lenders and the R.T.C. are reaching agreements to build out and close down properties."
For example, when K. Hovnanian opened Sunrise at Hanover in June, buyers snapped up all of its 16 homes in three hours. By the first week in July, the balance of the 86-home final phase had sold out as well.
"DURING the past few years, we've gained control of more than 6,600 value-priced building lots in 32 communities," said Ara Hovnanian, the president of the company, which is the largest buyer and builder of formerly distressed properties in the Northeast. "Value is the prime motivation for today's home buyers. Only clear value sells well in today's skittish market."
He also noted that one property in New Jersey, whose acquisition by K. Hovnanian has not yet publicly announced, was bought at a sheriff's sale in May 1989 for $8.6 million by a second developer after the property's first owner went bankrupt.
The second developer then defaulted and the property was acquired by a bank for $8.8 million. That bank was subsequently taken over by the Resolution Trust Corporation and the property was then sold for $4.5 million to a third developer.
After that developer defaulted, K. Hovnanian bought the property for under $4 million.
"How does affordability happen?" Mr. Huseth asked. "Land prices drop. They have dropped precipitously from their high in 1987. They must have dropped 50 percent since then."
"What is also happening," he added, "is that developers other than the very, very large ones have not been able to get a construction loan because of the credit crunch, so they have to sell the property."
Some smaller developers have also been able to move into the distressed-properties market. For example, in Roslyn, L.I., an abandoned 25-house development that had been left in shambles by vandals has been brought back to life by Bernard Janowitz and Jason Cohen of Roslyn Park, L.I., who acquired the 10.5-acre property and the remains of six houses in July, after foreclosure proceedings against the original developers, Park Ridge at Roslyn.
Three of the six original houses in the development, now called Roslyn Pond Estates and occupying a hillside overlooking Roslyn Park, have been completed. Work is under way on the other three and construction of three more is to begin next month.
Buyers have already signed contracts for three houses and the developers hope to finish the entire project in two years.
The development's original houses, with four bedrooms and 3,600 to 4,700 square feet, were priced from $675,000 to $850,000 when they went on the market in 1988. They are contemporary in design and are now being offered at $499,000 to $599,000. The newer models will be smaller, around 3,000 square feet, and will fall in the same price range.
Another example is Mr. Ornstein's company, which recently was involved with two revived developments, Castle Glen, in North White Plains, N.Y., and New Brookridge Townhomes in Rye Brook, N.Y.
In Castle Glen, which had been by taken over by Union Chelsea National Bank in Manhattan from a bankrupt developer, Ornstein Leyton obtained a project of four completed town houses and eight unbuilt houses, which they sold within six months for $229,990 and $264,990. Nine homes had been built and sold by the previous developer. As recently as 1989, the town houses had been offered at $350,000.
IN New Brookridge, which Ornstein Leyton bought from First Constitution Bank in August, 13 of the planned 46 town houses had already been sold by the original developer for $355,000 to $370,990. Last week, the company began offering 15 partially built and 18 unbuilt homes for $229,990 to $289,990.
The company was able to obtain financing to purchase the properties because it could demonstrate to banks and private investors through a detailed cost analysis and marketing strategy that the homes in the development could become profitable at their new, sharply lower, prices.
Mr. Ornstein and his partner, Scott Leyton, also invested some of their own money in the project. They also believe that marketing is crucial.
"We tried to play up the hook of price in a very direct way," said Chet Halperin & Partners, Cedarhurst, N.J., who handled the company's marketing.
Much of the revival activity has been in New Jersey, and much of it is geared toward first-time buyers and the more affordable end of the market. In June, for example, two condominium developments in eastern Morris County begun in the mid-80's but aborted because of the real estate recession were revived.
The projects -- Eden Lane in Hanover Township and the Village at Convent Station in Morris Township -- were taken over by Baker-Firestone of Pleasantville, N.Y. One former developer defaulted on its loan; the other walked away from the project. Prices at both projects, together totaling 421 apartments and town houses, range from $109,990 to $159,990, about 25 percent lower than the prices the original developer had sought.
Another development, a one-family-home project in Howell Township in Monmouth County that was shelved by its developers after the 1987 stock market crash, was brought back to life last year.
The project, Sunrise Station, still has 120 homes on quarter- to half-acre lots, spread over 65 acres. The homes, however, have been scaled back: to 1,370 to 2,250 square feet from 2,500 to 2,700 square feet, and with three or four bedrooms instead of four or five, all to make them more salable.
The homes are being offered at preconstruction prices of $135,900 to $179,400. The earlier models were priced from $195,000 to $230,000.
"WE have sold 80 out of 120, and have actually moved in 40 families," said Michael Solondz, vice president and secretary of sales for Sunrise Communities. "We feel that the first-time buyer was shut out of the market in the 1980's, and our sales are due to the price structure. My ideas was to bring out a product that a first-time buyer could afford."
The revival of distressed projects isn't occurring everywhere in the region. "I wish there was something going on here, but there is nothing happening," said Herbert Warshavsky, executive director of the Association of Builders and Owners of Greater New York.
In particular, the outlook for home building in Connecticut continues to look bleak. Overall, about 7,500 new homes are expected to be built this year, the same amount as last year but far under the 24,000 built in 1987.
"We have been at the lowest level since 1945 for the last two years and we are staying there," said Michael Lauzier, executive president of the Home Builders Association of Connecticut in Hartford.
Bob Wiebolt, the executive vice president of the New York State Builders' Association, said that in New York there were few housing projects being revived.
"I am aware of projects that are springing back," he said. "But there is a big pall on the whole thing, and that is we can't a lot of front-end financing."
"There is a definite disinvestment pattern out there," he added. "No one is lending much money on construction, preconstruction or acquisitions, and that is a problem that is hampering recovery in the New York metropolitan area and Long Island more than it is upstate."
Even in New Jersey, where K. Hovnanian expects to build 2,500 units this year compared with 1,700 last year and the overall number of homes built is expected to increase from 14,000 in 1991 to 18,000 this year, the optimism is guarded.
"There have been projects that developers have been able to obtain from the R.T.C. and banks," said Joanne Hawkins, the director of land use planning for the New Jersey Builders Association in Plainsboro, N.J. "And there are developers that have been able to bring the projects online at a reduced price.
"But we are still operating at 50-year lows," she added, referring to the number of homes built annually. "These are 1940's-type numbers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carmine L. Fantasia at his Hovnanian house site in Whippany, N.J. (Stephen Lefkovits for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Scott Leyton, left, and and Alec W. Ornstein, developers, at Castle Glen complex in North White Plains, N.Y. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (85%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); CITIES (73%); BANK FAILURES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); WORLD WAR II (56%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK ARA K HOVNANIAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



608 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 23; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Far From Old Hat, Headwear Is Back

BYLINE: By RUTH ROBINSON

 BODY:
TIME was when no self-respecting American dared venture into town without a hat. Hats managed to survive the Depression, and even World War II when a large percentage of the population was in uniform and dressing down was considered patriotic. Then, in the 60's, with bouffant hairstyles and a more informal life style, women's hats began to disappear from the sartorial scene. The men's hat industry was dealt a severe blow when in January 1961, President John F. Kennedy appeared bareheaded at his Inauguration on the steps of the Capitol despite freezing temperatures.
Now hats are making a comeback. "Hats are hot," said Casey Bush, executive director of the Millinery Information Bureau in New York, adding that sales of women's hats have been increasing at an annual rate of 10 to 20 percent since the middle of the 80's. 
 "Hats are a necessity, not just a fashion accessory," said Marilyn Malcarne of Deep River, a milliner. Because of the dangers of the depletion of the ozone layer, American men and women, like the Australians, are donning brims and visors to protect their complexions against premature aging and skin cancer.
 
Used as a Sun Barrier
 Darcy Creech of Southport, a hat designer, agreed. "It is beginning to sink in that the sun is not good for you," she said. "When you see a person with a deep tan you don't admire it. You think, 'Oh my gosh, aren't they aware of what they're doing to themselves?' " With impeccable timing, Ms. Creech brought out her first collection in the spring of 1990.
She aims for the classic country look with emphasis on natural materials -- handmade flowers of parchment paper, for example, and leather rather than vinyl bands. Her 600 accounts include major department stores like Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom. She also does custom work and shows up weekends for the polo matches at Conyer Farm in Greenwich with a display of hats.
Ms. Creech's signature hat remains popular. She tells how, unable to find the right straw to wear to a party several years ago, she made one herself, trimming an unblocked Panama with a cotton damask bow, parchment flowers, berries and leaves. The compliments and demands for one like it catapulted her into the millinery business. Rather theatrical, the hat has been described as "Laura Ashley pirate."
Flower-trimmed hats bearing the Darcy Creech label retail from $100 to $450. Men are not forgotten in the fall collection, which includes Western suedes in six colors and baseball caps with corduroy crowns and contrasting suede visors, both considered unisex styles, along with more feminine velours trimmed with flowers and feathers.
 
Fedoras and Bowlers for Fall
 For Dotty Smith of Lakeville, another designer, hats are just one segment of an accessories business with annual retail sales estimated at $10 million, but it is a segment that is growing each year. While the natural straws offered for summer were trimmed with flowers or madras puggrees, the fall collection in felt is more restrained. Included are boaters, fedoras, bowlers, sailors and Stetsons in colors like magenta, plum and goldenrod in addition to standard navy, black, camel and taupe. These retail for about $50 at specialty stores across the nation.
Like many of today's successful milliners, Ms. Malcarne received a certificate in millinery from the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan. She does not have a production line; instead she creates sculptured hats and headpieces that are one of a kind and usually made to order. "If you can imagine it you can make it," is her philosophy.
 
Artists Cross Over
 Her creations, which range in price from $75 to $500, tend to be dressy, a beaded Art Deco headpiece in turquoise and gold, for example, or an exotic brocade turban with Austrian crystal fringe. Ms. Malcarne is often called on to design bridal headpieces as well as period hats for owners of antique cars. She is particularly proud of an elegant tricorner made for the Lord Mayor of London, who she met when in England performing with a fife and drum corps. This model of black felt was set off by a plume fashioned of black lace anchored by an antique black button.
Some of Connecticut's artists are finding hats a creative way of subsidizing their serious work. Alexandre Itin of Stamford, for instance, paints bold colorful designs on straw and felt hats of all varieties and sells them through outlets like the Gayle Willson Gallery in Southampton, L.I., and Julie Artisans' Gallery in New York. Prices range from $130 to $250. Many of the Itin designs are abstract, usually in primary colors, while others relate to landscape painting. They are practical to wear, even in damp weather, because the acrylic paint is sprayed to make it water resistant. Some of the painted hats stem from Mr. Itin's figurative three-dimensional paintings and sport faces built up of modeling paste on the crown. Seen from the front these are innocuous, but from the back they resemble grotesque masks.
Irene Reed of Hartford, a sculptor in fiber and mixed media, tries to give her pieces some function to make buying them justifiable. "I've always been hat and bag oriented," she said. Her first step into the realm of millinery was a practical but funky number resembling an aviator's helmet, complete with goggles. She used her favorite technique, crochet, for these cozy caps of wool or cotton starting out with khaki for a military look, but soon branching out into colors. An immediate success, they were snapped up by people like the actress Mia Farrow.
 
No Comeback for Hatting Capital
 These days Ms. Reed builds her headpieces up like sculptures, and though they can actually be worn, to a costume party perhaps, they are are more likely to show up in a gallery or museum than on someone's head. All kinds of materials are enlisted. Scraps of paper, painted and covered with fiberglass screen, are crocheted together with exotic threads and lavish use is made of found objects -- bones, beads and little plastic objects. Such increasingly elaborate pieces range in price from $700 to $1,200.
Despite the surge in popularity of hats, Danbury -- once known as the Hatter Capital of the world -- today is identified with diverse high-technology companies. The hat industry, which flourished through the turn of the century and came to a halt in the 1960's, has not come back there, or in Norwalk, another city whose economy once depended to some extent on the manufacture of headwear.

GRAPHIC: Photo: One-of-a-kind hats from Marilyn Malcarne's Fine Millinery. "If you can imagine it you can make it," she said; Hats in the abstract by Alexandre Itin of Stamford, who paints designs on straw and felt. (Alexandre Itin)
Irene Reed sculptures her hats in Hartford. "Dance of the Rooster Warrior," right. (Wayne Fleming)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: HATS AND CAPS CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (78%); HAT CAP & MILLINERY MFG (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MEN (76%); RETAIL SALES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); WEATHER (71%); SKIN CANCER (53%); OZONE DEPLETION (52%); 

PERSON: ROBINSON, RUTH; CREECH, DARCY; ITIN, ALEXANDRE; MALCARNE, MARILYN JOHN F KENNEDY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



609 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Data Update

 BODY:

 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	INDEXES OF HOUSING COSTS -- N.Y.-Northeast N.J. area*	 	 	 	 			% change from	% change from		Aug. 92	Jul. 92	Aug. 91	Rents	181.3	+0.1	+3.6	Homeowner's costs	178.9	+0.5	+3.5	Fuel and utilities	110.0	+0.1	+3.8	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	*Five counties of New York City plus Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester		 	 	 	Rockland, Putnam, Bergen, Essex, Morris, Union, Hudson, Middlesex	Somerset and Passaic.	 	 	 		 	 	 	Indexes: 1982-84=100	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	MORTGAGE INTEREST RATES (Averages)	 	 	 	 		Last Week	Previous Week	Year Ago	 	 	 	 	New York	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.00	8.08	9.23	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.33	5.38	6.96	 	 	 	 	New Jersey	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	7.90	7.97	9.11	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.17	5.22	6.82	 	 	 	 	Connecticut	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	7.90	8.01	9.12	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.04	5.11	6.88	 	 	 	 	Co-ops (N.Y.)	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.05	8.15	9.35	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.79	5.95	7.47	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Indexes for Adjustable-Rate Mortgages*	1-yr. Treasury security	3.17	3.39	5.58	National Mortgage Contract Rate	7.78	7.78	9.12	
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CITIES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



610 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 12; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: WESTCHESTER GUIDE

BYLINE: By Eleanor Charles

 BODY:

FIBER SCULPTURE DISPLAY
 Fragile and ethereal as Rebecca Medel's fiber sculptures may seem, they are firmly molded into shape with adhesives. An installation of the unusual works may be seen at the Neuberger Museum on the campus of the State University of New York at Purchase today through Jan. 24. 
 One of the pieces, called "1,000 Kannons," is a series of mounds shaded from blue to gray to white and made from hand-knotted linen grids. They form what appears to be a repetitious cloud formation from some other universe suspended permanently for all to see.
 Ms. Medel will explain her technique to visitors during a public reception today, when she will give a slide show and lecture at 3 P.M.
Museum hours are Tuesdays through Fridays from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M., Saturdays and Sundays from 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission charges are $4; $2 for students and people 62 and older; free on the first Saturday of each month, and free to children 12 and younger. The number to call for more information is 251-6110.
 
FOR RECORDER PLAYERS
 Amateur recorder players looking for a broader outlet for their muse are being sought by the Westchester Recorder Guild, a local branch of the 75-chapter, 50-year-old American Recorder Society. The guild will begin its eighth season tomorrow from 7:45 to 10 P.M. with a session at St. John the Evangelist Church, 148 Hamilton Avenue in White Plains.
Scores will be supplied, and the fee for the evening of music making will be $5, or $32 for a season of eight sessions. Players should take recorders and music stands. Those who would like to audit a session before joining the group will be charged $6.
In addition to the Monday night gatherings, workshops coached by professional teachers and performers are offered on three levels of skill and are held at regular intervals. Fees are $10. The next workshop is scheduled for Oct. 25.
From time to time members perform in small groups in schools, churches and nursing homes. The number to call for more information is 762-2873.
 
IRISH MUSIC PROGRAM
 Cathal McConnell from County Fermanagh, Northern Ireland, has been playing the flute and whistle since he was 11 and can trace the flutists in his family back four generations. He was the All-Ireland Competition Champion on both instruments at the age of 18 in the 1960's.
Len Graham of County Antrim, also Northern Ireland, won an All-Ireland singing competition in the 1970's and is a folk music adviser to Ulster television.
The two men are members of Boys of the Lough and Skylark, respectively, among the best-known traditional Irish music groups, but they will perform separately at the Chappaqua Library on Wednesday at 8 P.M. Admission will be $7. More information is available by calling 238-4779.
 
ECONOMIC SYMPOSIUM
 Derrick D. Cephas, State Superintendent of Banks, and Rosemary Scanlon, chief economist for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, will be the keynote speakers Tuesday at a symposium titled "Rebuilding the Regional Economy."
Mr. Cephas's talk will deal with bank regulation and the need for reform, and Ms. Scanlon's topic will be "Where Is the Economic Recovery in Our Region?"
Organized by the Westchester County Association and the Westchester County Bankers Association in cooperation with the Westchester Business Partnership and the New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants, Westchester chapter, the symposium will focus on Westchester's role in the regional and global economy. Among others on the panel will be Alfred B. DelBello, former Westchester County Executive and former Lieutenant Governor, and Jeffrey S. Rubin, vice president of the Nynex Corporation.
The symposium is scheduled from 8 A.M. to noon at the Marriott Hotel in Tarrytown. Admission will be $45 and includes Continental breakfast. The number to call for reservations or more information is 948-6444.
 
MOHONK HARVEST THEME
 The weekend theme at Mohonk Mountain House in New Paltz, Friday through Sunday, is "Hudson Valley Harvest." Drawing on its designation as a National Historic Landmark, the hotel offers a variety of educational events, almost always related to the history and natural aspects of the region.
Daily rates, from $155 to $215 for singles and $245 to $320 for two in a room, include three meals a day and more activities than most visitors can manage. For example, at 4 P.M. Friday newly arrived guests will be served black birch and black currant tea, apple cider and pumpkin bread.
Later in the afternoon Barrie Kavasch, a naturalist and author, and Dale Carson, an artist of Abenake extraction, will lead a nature walk. At 8:45 P.M. the Hudson River Hummingbirds will give a concert of American Indian music, followed by a fireside sing-along.
During the next two days one may rise early for a sunrise harvest ceremony or sleep in until boarding a van for a 9:30 A.M. trip to a winery to watch grape harvesting.
Workshops include one on wreath-making and others on scarecrow- making and cooking American Indian foods in a modern kitchen. Indian handicrafts and blacksmithing are among demonstrations scheduled, and Dr. Laurence Hauptman, professor of history at SUNY New Paltz, will lecture on issues affecting American Indians.
Among other activities are a barbecue, a country dance with Jay Ungar and Molly Mason calling the tunes, walks to find fungi and other wild edibles and slide shows and talks by Bob Grumet, an archeologist with the National Park Service, and Len Tantillo, a painter of historic scenes in the state. The number to call for reservations or more information is 255-4500.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A sculpture on exhibit by Rebecca Medel, "1,000 Kannons." (Neuberger Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER COUNTY ASSOCIATION (75%); MOHONK MOUNTAIN HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOHONK MOUNTAIN HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE SCULPTURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MUSIC (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CHILDREN (72%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (71%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%); RELIGION (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR REBECCA MEDEL (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



611 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 29; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Westchester Community College Expands Its Cultural Horizon

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

DATELINE: VALHALLA

 BODY:
WESTCHESTER Community College is staking its claim as an arts center this season, bringing the famous, the brilliant and the supremely talented to the campus here in a fresh package of events. Lisa Deutsch, the college's new manager of cultural affairs, said she hoped the fourfold increase in programs would attract both students and the public. 
 The arts have long been part of the school's mission, said Dr. Joseph N. Hankin, president of the college. What is new this year, he said, is that "we're presenting programs as a whole instead of willy-nilly."
 
Luminaries, Close Up
 Events featuring such luminaries as Robert MacNeil, co-host of the "MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour"; Ellen Taaffe Zwilich and John Corigliano, two leading American composers, and Julian Bream, the classical guitarist, will take place in small theaters -- the largest holds 400 -- where audiences, especially students, can have a "close-up" experience with performers, Ms. Deutsch said. She added, "We're very interested in having the students directly involved in the arts."
Dr. Hankin said the stronger cultural thrust was meant to broaden the education of students who were typically older than the average college student. Community college students were often busy with jobs and young families and generally less likely than their liberal arts college counterparts to seek out arts experiences, he said. "We as educators feel that for them to have a full education from us, they need to be exposed to activities they won't do on their own," Dr. Hankin said.
Daytime events, such as talks by well-known film makers (an expansion of the college's popular Friday night film series), a poetry series and an American culture series -- which includes the folk singer Pete Seeger and the iconoclastic historian Howard Zinn -- are free to students and the public. Prices for evening and weekend events, featuring dance, music, film and theater, range from $3 to $12, with discounts for series subscriptions. The programs, which Ms. Deutsch said lean toward the nontraditional in content and presentation, are financed with the proceeds from a $5 student activity fee that was initiated last year.
Dr. Hankin said he expected enrollment in the 47-year-old college to break records this year, with 12,000 students taking courses for credit. Even with the recent raise of tuition to $1,750 for a full-time student, the price was still affordable and far lower than at colleges elsewhere, he said. "In a recession economy, people go back for more education," Dr. Hankin said. "It's less of a stigma going to a community college today, and once people have the experience, they know they really have to work hard here."
Long lines snaked through the halls on registration day recently. Anticipating a captive audience, Ms. Deutsch had engaged a guitar duo to play in a nearby lounge as a kind of kickoff of the new cultural season. Most students didn't seem to know what to make of the musicians, but a few smiled as they passed by. Ms. Deutsch, a vivacious, dark-haired woman, said she had many such plans up her sleeve to pique students' interest.
Holding an armful of shiny new brochures, the cultural affairs manager moved down the line of students waiting to register and hawked her goods like a hot dog vendor at a baseball game. "Lots of jazz this year, check it out," she said, handing a flyer to a young man. "Spike Lee's father is coming. There's a lot of free stuff here," she continued, passing out the brochure to all takers.
Although some students looked skeptical, Ms. Deutsch said later that she had received calls for tickets from people who had been in the line. She has immersed herself in her mandate to create excitement on a campus without dormitories, where students go their own ways after classes. She said she watches MTV for new ideas and scours the Manhattan jazz clubs for new talent.
Ms. Deutsch said she filled a gap in the college's musical lineup by adding jazz and, in particular, progressive jazz, to the programming. A new jazz series will get under way on Tuesday with a brown-bag concert by the Jack Wilkins Ensemble. The concert will be held in the Outdoor Amphitheater from noon to 2 P.M. Also on Tuesday the author Helen Barolini will open the Poets and Writers lecture series at 11 A.M. in the Classroom Building.
Orchestral music will be heard in a series devoted to the Camerata, a resident 40-member chamber orchestra, which gives its first concert today at 4 P.M. in the theater of the Academic Arts Building.
The jazz and rock guitarist Larry Coryell begins a new "guitar greats" series on Oct. 2 at 8 P.M. The setting for the guitar concerts is also new; it was Ms. Deutsch's inspiration to turn the Student Center lounge into an intimate theater in the round for special events.
A nine-member cultural arts committee made up of students, faculty members and administrators studies proposals for programs and coordinates them with Ms. Deutsch. Dr. Iris M. Cook, a biology professor who heads the committee, said she was happy that the college had gone big time with the arts. Students need esthetic experiences to round out their classroom ones, she added.
 
Nonstop Phone Calls
 Ms. Deutsch, a mother of two young children who seems to have boundless energy, said a slow response from students would not discourage her, but she expects the opposite. Her "phone is ringing off the hook," she said, with calls from people as far away as Queens and Brooklyn who had received a flyer.
Ms. Deutsch, walking through the college's green and rolling campus, where many a folk concert has been heard and the New York Philharmonic has played, recalled her experiences as the first executive director of the New Orchestra of Westchester, which is celebrating its 10th anniversary, and described her love of "starting things up."
"It's a hectic pace, but I love it," she said. "That's because I love the arts. That's what gets me through the long hours and the trips and falls." There haven't been any falls yet in this job, she added. It is all too new, she said, as the college prepared to play its part as "an alternative cultural center in the community."
The number to call for a brochure of the season's events or for ticket information is 285-6567.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lisa Deutsch, above, Westchester Community College's new manager of cultural affairs, in the school's amphitheater. At left, performers in the new in-the-round performing space. (Westchester Community College; Roberta Hershenson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER COMMUNITY COLLEGE WESTCHESTER COMMUNITY COLLEGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COMMUNITY COLLEGE WESTCHESTER COMMUNITY COLLEGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE COMMUNITY COLLEGES (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FILM (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); STUDENT ACTIVITY FEES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); COLLEGE STUDENTS MARKET (73%); MUSIC (73%); HISTORY (71%); MUSIC GENRES (68%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (68%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (68%); 

PERSON: HERSHENSON, ROBERTA MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



612 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 9; Page 14; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Lisa Schattinger and Alistair Buchan

 BODY:
Elisabeth Myers Schattinger, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James H. Schattinger of Shaker Heights, Ohio, was married there yesterday to Alistair Buchan, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Buchan of Edinburgh, Scotland. The Rev. Wilbur Green, a minister of the United Church of Christ, performed the ceremony at the Plymouth Church of Shaker Heights.
Mrs. Buchan, who is 27 years old and is known as Lisa, graduated cum laude from Wellesley College and is a candidate for an M.B.A. at Dartmouth College. Her father is the president of the Pioneer Manufacturing Company, a maker of industrial maintenance products in Cleveland. Her mother, Joan M. Schattinger, is a freelance writer in Shaker Heights. 
 Mr. Buchan, 29, is a senior associate in project finance at Barclays Bank in New York. He graduated from the University of Edinburgh, where he received a master's degree in economics. His father, now retired, was an executive at the Royal Bank of Scotland in Edinburgh.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (84%); RBS (LSE) (84%); RBS (AMS) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3441 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); SCOTLAND (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (84%); PIONEER MFG CO INC (71%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); SCOTLAND (90%); OHIO, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); RELIGION (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); BANKING & FINANCE (85%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (67%); 

PERSON: SCHATTINGER, ELISABETH MYERS (ELISABETH MYERS BUCHAN); BUCHAN, ALISTAIR ANDREW S BUCHAN (91%); ALISTAIR BUCHAN (80%); ELISABETH MYERS SCHATTINGER (57%); JAMES H SCHATTINGER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



613 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
European Unity? With Friends Like These . . .

BYLINE: By Steven Greenhouse

 BODY:
It's a pity that European currency markets plunged into crisis because the mayhem could have been avoided -- at least that's what many economists say. All it would have taken was more vision and courage from Europe's governments and central bankers.
In June, President Francois Mitterrand announced today's referendum in France, expecting that voters would approve the next step toward European unity. He never imagined that the uncertainties surrounding the vote would foment a crisis, with speculators ganging up on various currencies. 
 The Italian Government lacked the courage to slash its astronomical budget deficit, which made the lira's devaluation inevitable. And many analysts say Britain's Government might have headed off the pound's devaluation if, a week or two ago, the Bank of England had had the foresight to raise rates to 15 percent. Instead it moved only after speculators savaged the pound.
Germany's central bank might have forestalled the crisis if it had cut its most important interest rate by one or two points last weekend rather than by a quarter point. Once the uncertainty of the vote had passed and markets had calmed, the Bundesbank, to protect its inflation-fighting credibility, could have pushed rates back up. But, alas, central bankers lack the imagination of Balanchine or the agility of ballerinas.
In France, experts say today's vote is too close to call. Some say a no vote would delay and perhaps kill plans to establish a single European central bank and currency. Some analysts say it would make little difference because the markets already think the idea of a single currency is dead. But most agree it would lead to more currency chaos, with the franc coming under fire next.
A no vote could mean more devaluations. This could allow the Bundesbank to cut rates because devaluations help hold down German inflation by making imports cheaper.
For the United States, devaluations and lower interest rates in Europe would mean stronger growth. The reason: faster growth in Europe should mean increased imports of American machine tools and Michael Jackson records. In addition, the devaluations and market chaos fostered by a no vote would strengthen the dollar -- and this could siphon more foreign money into American stock markets.
But a no vote could have a downside. Market chaos in Europe could spill abroad, and hurt equity markets. And a no vote might hurt confidence in Europe. "If it really derailed the momentum and psychology of European unification, it could push us back to Europessimism," said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics.
A yes vote in France would be construed as a vote for European unity and for fixed exchange rates. It would probably discourage speculation and raise confidence. With a solid yes vote, said Norbert Walter, chief economist at Deutsche Bank, "there is reason to believe the turbulence would calm down."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 21.35 to 3,327.05," tracks Dow Jones average, Sept. 11-18, 1992; "The Bundesbank Cuts Rates," tracks Germam Lombard rate and U.S. discount rate, Jan 1990-Sept 1992; "The Dollar Stays Weak," tracks number of German marks a dollar brought, Jan 1990-Sept. 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); REFERENDUMS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); DANCERS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN MICHAEL JACKSON (52%); MICHAEL JACKSON (52%); MICHAEL A JACKSON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



614 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Networking;
Here Comes I.B.M., Embracing Ethernet at Last

BYLINE: By STEPHEN C. MILLER

 BODY:
The International Business Machines Corporation has been trumpeting its latest reorganization, which is supposed to turn it into a lean, mean marketing machine. But last week's announcement of 30 new networking products, due to hit the market in waves starting this month, showed the old as well as the new I.B.M.
Some analysts saw clear signs that the new I.B.M. was struggling to assert itself. "We're seeing an example of the new, agile I.B.M.," said Janet Hyland, director of network strategy research for Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass. Others are not so sure. 
 The problem in the past has been that I.B.M. tended to address future markets with conservative technology that quickly got bypassed by other vendors. This time, Ms. Hyland pointed out, I.B.M. is out front with credit-card-sized network adapters for portable computers that adhere to the Personal Computer Memory Card International Association standard meant to insure compatibility between different vendors' machines. The cards themselves set new standards in terms of size, weight and power-saving, getting well ahead of the current portable adapter offerings, which are the size of a pack of cigarettes.
More significant, the cards and full-size adapters, available almost immediately, mark an end to I.B.M.'s disdain for Ethernet. Ethernet is one of several standards that determine both how a LAN is wired and how it passes information around. I.B.M. developed the Token-Ring standard and, until now, has stuck with it despite the fact that everyone else in the LAN industry prefers Ethernet. It's a little like Sony finally offering VHS rather than beta.
New, faster adapters are also available for Token-Ring and can act as a 3270 terminal for use with I.B.M. mainframes.
The cards, for laptops, and a line of full-sized local area network adapters for desktop P.C.'s carry prices ranging from $250 (full-slot Ethernet, available in January) to $845 (Token-Ring, available this week).
"We think that this ends the Token-Ring/ Ethernet stalemate," said Ms. Hyland. She believes that those LAN managers who stuck with Token-Ring because that was all that I.B.M. offered can stay true blue while switching to Ethernet. And with more and more users operating laptops while traveling but still needing network services, the slip-in-your-pocket cards may well prove tempting.
Not everyone is excited about the I.B.M. 30-product announcement, however. Nick Lippis, for one, of Strategic Networks Inc., a consulting firm in Rockland, Mass., still sees too much of the old I.B.M. "While some of it is interesting, much of it is too little too late," he said.
For example, I.B.M.'s new 8250 multiprotocol intelligent hub (a hub connects different networks, like Token-Ring to Ethernet) is not even an all-I.B.M. product. It is a joint development with the Chipcom Corporation of Southborough, Mass. And Chipcom, along with other hub vendors, has been shipping such intelligent hubs for over a year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (96%); IBM (NYSE) (96%); IBM (LSE) (96%); FORR (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: PERSONAL COMPUTER MEMORY CARD INTERNATIONAL ASSN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (96%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PERSONAL COMPUTER MEMORY CARD INTERNATIONAL ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PERSONAL COMPUTERS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); LOCAL AREA NETWORKS (89%); NETWORK INTERFACE CARDS (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (72%); 

PERSON: MILLER, STEPHEN C MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



615 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2900 words

HEADLINE: Arms Makers: Rather Fight Than Switch

BYLINE: BY LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
In these hard times, no industry is laying off workers in greater numbers than weapons manufacturers -- and much public rhetoric is now being devoted to reversing this process through a policy called conversion. The idea is that workers who produced tanks will be redeployed to make civilian products like sewer pipes. But conversion is not happening. And it might never happen.
William A. Anders, chairman of General Dynamics, the giant manufacturer of M1 tanks, jet fighter planes and nuclear submarines, gave fair warning of this in a little-noticed speech that has become the military industry's Gettysburg Address. That speech, last Oct. 31 in St. Louis, is now widely cited by chieftains of other big military contractors as a prudent call for a do-or-die policy: make weapons or shut down. 
 It is not just that conversion cannot work, Mr. Anders said; it should not work. Making plowshares is not so easy for a military contractor, and not as profitable as simply making fewer swords. What contractors should do is lobby for every military dollar that can be squeezed from Congress and the Administration, and from foreign sales. And as the revenue flow inevitably lessens in the post-cold war era, Mr. Anders told an industry conference, weapons makers should shut factories and send home workers, eliminating overcapacity and improving efficiency.
 
Paying Off Shareholders
 "If we have cash that General Dynamics can't invest in good, attractive core defense programs with decent returns," he said, then "rather than add diversified volume [civilian products] just to look bigger, I believe we should return excess cash to the shareholders."
General Dynamics, like other big military contractors, has made good on that philosophy. This summer the company laid out nearly $1 billion to buy back 30 percent of its outstanding shares, at premium prices. It has cut its work force to 73,000 from 90,000 in 20 months, and capital investment is evaporating. "I don't think we have a building under construction at our various sites, and three or four years ago we constantly had several buildings under construction," said James Cunnane, chief financial officer at General Dynamics.
Similarly, throughout the military industry, factories stand empty or half-empty, machinery is being auctioned and more than 300,000 jobs out of roughly 3 million have been lost since the Berlin wall fell in 1989, contributing mightily to the recession and the weak economy.
The blunt rejection of conversion -- in defiance of a policy endorsed by the Bush Administration and by many state and local governments -- is a departure from what happened during the three previous cutbacks in military spending since World War II. The willingness to push into civilian production that existed in the past has all but vanished, partly because attempts at conversion after the Vietnam War failed. And even if military contractors were willing to depart from the Anders manifesto and attempt such ventures, opportunities for making consumer products are few in a weak economy.
Even so, perhaps a thousand military contractors -- a handful among the more than 30,000 companies in the industry -- are attempting some civilian production, according to the National Commission for Economic Conversion and Disarmament, a Washington group. Some are giants, like Lockheed, the military aircraft manufacturer, which now charges fees to commercial airlines to overhaul or modify their aircraft. But most are small, like the Essex Corporation in St. Louis, which makes oxygen equipment for military pilots and sells a modified version to health care companies. These efforts have had little impact on the enormous military industry, whose dozen or so major contractors and many small businesses play a larger role in the economy than the auto industry and one nearly as large as residential and commercial construction. By most estimates, the meager conversion efforts to date have resulted in 50,000 to 100,000 civilian jobs.
The failure of the marketplace to provide more incentives for conversion puts a huge burden on the Government to be the vehicle, at least temporarily. Even those who prefer leaving conversion to the marketplace now lend backhanded support to a Government role. "When defense spending is cut back, the market economy releases resources -- particularly workers -- into the marketplace and others bid for them, and that is fine," said Robert Hall, a Stanford University economist. "The problem is that this is happening in a sick economy and that puts a heavy burden on the job seekers."
 
Weapons or Highways?
 Simply to protect the nation from prolonged hard times, the Government must either maintain the industry, by continuing to spend money on weaponry, or pay out those billions to redeploy workers in civilian projects. The civilian endeavors most often mentioned include a national high-speed rail system, highway and bridge repairs, job retraining and research to develop new products.
"For large-scale conversion to work, there has to be a shift from military procurement and research into fixed public investment in infrastructure and civilian research," said Greg Bischak, executive director of the commission for economic conversion. "This doesn't mean every defense contractor will pursue these opportunities. But history suggests that many of these contractors, dependent as they are on Government spending, will follow the money."
Numerous Federal, state and municipal agencies are trying to promote conversion, through job retraining and even grants to small companies to help with the cost of reorganizing. But the total actually spent since 1990 is less than $50 million, according to the Center for Economic Conversion in Mountain View, Calif.
Critics like Mr. Bischak say that much more must be done to get General Dynamics, for example, to build, say, sewer pipes instead of tanks at its Lima, Ohio, plant. An investment tax credit might work as an incentive to retool, he said, along with the rechanneling of Government spending from military programs to public works projects. The problem, others argue, is that the Government would find itself favoring weapons makers in buying products already offered by commercial companies.
The preference among weapons makers is for the money not to migrate from military spending. Mr. Anders stressed this in his speech and executives at a half-dozen other military companies agreed in interviews.
 
Freedom to Spend
 One great concern is that starting next year, Congress will be free to channel money from military spending into other programs. Under the 1990 deficit reduction law, military savings cannot automatically be spent elsewhere, but the restriction expires in 1993 "and that terrifies everyone in the defense industry," said Sam F. Iacobellis, chief operating officer of Rockwell International.
The industry is pushing for public acceptance of a post-cold war policy that would keep military spending in the 1990's from falling below roughly $250 billion a year, in today's dollars. That would be down from the current $293 billion annual level. But it would mean the much-talked-of peace dividend would be smaller than Mr. Bischak and others advocate.
"We have told our managers of weapons programs that their survival depends on how well they can sell the customer," said Tom Culligan, a vice president at McDonnell-Douglas, referring to the Pentagon and Congress. "And we have told our officers to get in there and try to keep all our programs alive."
The case the industry is making for a substantial military industry is twofold: The United States should remain the world's leader in high-tech weaponry and also the world's guardian against small, aggressive nations like Iraq. National security demands no less, this argument goes. Neither of the Presidential candidates, George Bush and Bill Clinton, has challenged these goals.
The first goal, leadership in technology, means a steady stream of contracts to develop state-of-the-art weapons systems. And in fact the Pentagon and Congress have responded. Over the last two years, while other programs were cut sharply, Pentagon spending for weapons development actually rose slightly, to $37.4 billion in the current fiscal year, in inflation-adjusted dollars.
Procurement is another matter. Protecting the world from the likes of Saddam Hussein inevitably involves the Pentagon's buying quantities of Patriot missiles, tanks, rifles and other materiel. And here the military industry has suffered. Purchases have fallen nearly 22 percent, to $161.1 billion in inflation-adjusted dollars in this fiscal year, from a high of $206 billion in 1987.
But sharply rising arms exports have partly offset the Pentagon cutback, and President Bush has helped the process, authorizing two recent sales. Taiwan will pay $4 billion for 150 F-16 fighters that General Dynamics will build in Fort Worth, and Saudi Arabia will spend $5 billion for 72 F-15 jets that McDonnell-Douglas is making in St. Louis. Mr. Bush and military industry executives stressed that the sales would save jobs.
Saving jobs, in fact, has become a military industry weapon for opposing spending cuts. Without conversion, the workers have nowhere to go. How to make the most of this point was on the agenda at a luncheon in Washington this month attended by executives from a half-dozen military contractors and organized by the National Association of Manufacturers.
Rockwell was represented at the luncheon and later Mr. Iacobellis noted that while Rockwell does engage in some conversion -- trying to sell a satellite navigational device to boat owners, for example -- the number of workers involved is small potatoes compared with Rockwell's military business.
"You cannot take the capacity that is in this country for defense and convert it to commercial use; there is not nearly enough demand," particularly in a weak economy, Mr. Iacobellis said. He added: "History will tell you we will not have a peaceful world, and if defense technology is allowed to dry up, we will lose our leadership in weaponry. We should take the so-called peace dividend and spend it to develop high-tech weapons to keep our intellectual talent employed."
Many factors make military companies reluctant to convert. Having sold for decades only to the Pentagon, they lack the expertise in sales and marketing to crack commercial markets. Pentagon purchasing practices have fostered costly, inefficient manufacturing operations. Engineers and workers, accustomed to these inefficiencies, must be retrained for low-cost commercial operations. And making weapons usually yields profit levels not easily achieved in the production of cars, toys, airliners or appliances.
When conversion is attempted, frequently the product is an altered version of what the Pentagon purchased and the new customer is another Government agency, not a commercial buyer. "We know how to develop bids and contracts for Government agencies; that environment is comfortable for us," said Allen Henry, president of the Harris Corporation's Electronics Systems Sector, primarily a military contractor.
Mr. Henry's division is selling a $1.7 billion air traffic control system to the Federal Aviation Administration, drawing on technology used in super-high-frequency military equipment. Lockheed, which makes Air Force cargo and fighter planes, has a computer center that now processes parking tickets for Los Angeles and other cities. And despite Mr. Anders's opposition to conversion, some middle-level managers at a General Dynamics plant in San Diego have proposed that the company adapt an imaging device that detects underground mines so that cities can use it to rapidly locate water main leaks.
Even a conversion enthusiast like Richard Demmings proceeds cautiously, not wanting to lose military business while trying to crack commercial markets. Mr. Demmings is general manager of the ARO Corporation's life-support products division in Buffalo. Ninety percent of the division's $10 million in annual revenue is from the sale to the Air Force of oxygen equipment for pilots.
 
A Need to Go Slowly
 But ARO now sells commercially a device that evolved from its technology, to test the strength of seals on plastic packaging for sterilized medical tools. Cracking the market meant training salespeople and designing a competitively priced seal tester. More difficult, Mr. Demmings said, are week-to-week decisions on how much to divert in resources and capital, at the risk of losing military work.
"You have to inch your way along in commercial work," Mr. Demmings said, "or you won't have the capital from defense revenues to convert."
Pentagon purchasing practices also discourage conversion. Defense spending cuts and more emphasis on competitive bidding have made a dent in profits, but in many cases the Pentagon covers a contractor's stated costs and adds a profit on top -- a profit that commercial companies get only if consumers agree to pay a high enough price. What's more, the Pentagon reimburses military contractors as work proceeds, sometimes overpaying in the process.
Corporate America measures profitability chiefly by the return on its invested capital. While nonmilitary industries must put up their own money for machinery and other equipment, or borrow the money, the Government gives military businesses a sizable sum for such investments. That has made the return on the relatively small amount of invested capital from a contractor's own pocket a healthy 20 percent or more, according to a General Accounting Office study in the mid-1980's.
McDonnell-Douglas, afflicted today with cost overruns and write-offs in developing the C-17 transport for the Air Force, says it anticipates a profit in excess of $2 billion on $37 billion in sales, if the Pentagon goes through with its plan to purchase 120 C-17's. That's a 20 percent annual return on the company's $1 billion investment, assuming the planes are built and delivered over 10 years.
"There is very little investment that is mandatory," said Paul Nisbet, an analyst at Prudential Bache, "so the return has to be a good one."
Conversion wasn't always so unpopular. Weapons makers in World War II were mostly civilian manufacturers like Chrysler and General Electric eager to get back to commercial production to satisfy the huge postwar consumer demand.
 
The Boeing Example
 The military industry, with its special relationship to the Pentagon, took root in the Korean War, but after that war some big companies converted successfully. The most notable example was Boeing Aircraft, which developed commercial jets.
After Vietnam, many military contractors, responding to steep cutbacks, switched to civilian products, often failing. And that experience, cited by Mr. Anders in his speech, has helped to make the industry gun-shy.
One frequently cited failure was Boeing Vertol's venture into the manufacture of subway cars in addition to military helicopters. It failed in part because Federal financing was cut for the Urban Mass Transit Administration, and the Administration also failed to establish uniform standards that would have allowed the same model to be mass produced for the various cities.
But for Lloyd Dumas, an expert on conversion at the Univerity of Texas at Dallas, the Boeing Vertol failure only underscores Government's huge role in the conversion process. "If there were a 10-year commitment to the development of a high-speed rail system," Mr. Dumas said, "that would give Boeing Vertol the assurance it needed to develop and make high-quality cars."
 
 
 
TINY BUDGETS FOR CHANGE
 Across the nation, government agencies and commissions, many of them recently formed, are trying to help military contractors -- and their laid-off workers -- make a transition to civilian life. But the effort is a meager one so far: less than $50 million in government money has been spent since 1990, mostly on job retraining and grants to help small companies reorganize.
The Defense Department's recently formed Defense Conversion Commission is still holding hearings and preparing a report on what should be done. Congress has appropriated $200 million for conversion work, and $1 billion more is embodied in two bills under consideration. But in the absence of a clear-cut national program, only about $20 million has been spent by Washington.
One reason so little has been done on the Federal level is that the Commerce, Labor and Defense Departments are disputing which should play the major role, said Brad Johnson, co-chairman of the New York Defense Advisory Panel.
Beyond Washington, many states and some cities have military conversion commissions, but here too the spending has been scattered, amounting to not much more than $20 million, according to Michael Closson, director of the Center for Economic Conversion.
The New York panel, established by Gov. Mario Cuomo 18 months ago, is perhaps the most prominent and certainly the biggest spender, having laid out about $10 million. Mostly with $50,000 or $60,000 grants, it has tried to wean small companies from military work. The grants are catalysts, Mr. Johnson said, to help retrain salespeople for the competitive commercial market, and to reshape military technology into consumer products.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Greg Bischak says conversion can work. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times); William Anders says weapons, or nothing. (Bill Stover for The New York Times) (pg. 6)
 
Drawing (pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Conversion Success Stories," lists a few military contractors who have successfully switched to commercial production. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; LAYOFFS (LABOR) MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COLD WAR (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); NAVAL VESSELS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (67%); AUCTIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: ANDERS, WILLIAM A; UCHITELLE, LOUIS WILLIAM A ANDERS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



616 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Making a Difference;
A Store Just for 'Guests'

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

 BODY:
Forget the recession. Consider what happened Thursday when the Tandy Corporation opened the first of its consumer electronics megastores, called Incredible Universe, in Wilsonville, Ore., a Portland suburb. Traffic backed up seven miles on Interstate 5 and two lines of customers wrapped around the four-acre building waiting to get in.
Only don't call them customers. In Tandy's new universe, the buyers are "guests" who are entertained, educated and sold to by "cast members," not salespeople. 
 "At Incredible Universe we put on a show every day," said Rik Tokuno, general manager of the new store. "We have 300 cast members, in scenes, with props and costumes to educate our guests" about the latest in electronic wizardry.
The names of incoming "guests" are entered into the computer system, making them eligible for hourly giveaways. A disk jockey keeps music and video blasting across the 100,000 square-foot retail space, and the bold can pick up a microphone in the karaoke room and appear on the 315 television screens on the display floor. The aim is to put the fun back into shopping. Early indications are it works; the checkout lines were so long on opening day, it took some people 90 minutes to get to the registers.
There was plenty to get there with. The store sells no fewer than 77 different VCR's and 181 refrigerators in addition to all those TV's, tons of other gear and 45,000 music and movie titles. Child care facilities, a restaurant and even automatic teller machines are on-site.
As for Incredible Universe's "cast members," they do not receive commissions and they must spend at least 10 percent of their time in training. "We train our cast members to be like waiters in fine restaurants -- they are there when they're needed, invisible when they're not," said Mr. Tokuno, 35, who spent the last 11 years in various management positions with Tandy retail operations in California.
A second Incredible Universe is set to open Oct. 1 in Arlington, Tex. Tandy, which is based in Fort Worth and also operates the Radio Shack chain, will not say just how many universes it has in mind.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some of the 315 TV's on display at Incredible Universe. (Tandy Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RSH (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: TANDY CORP RADIOSHACK CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: TANDY CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OREGON, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (75%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (70%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (69%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



617 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/September 13-18

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL
 
The House of Major Wobbles as the French Go to Vote 

The timing couldn't have been worse for proponents of the Maastricht treaty on European unity. Just days before today's vote in France (a "no" could doom the treaty), the currency markets exploded and the European Monetary System came unglued, at least temporarily. Despite sometimes frantic-looking efforts by the Government of Prime Minister John Major of Britain to defend the value of the pound, it collapsed against the German mark. Europe's currencies were bound in a rigid system, but each country was pulling in a different direction. Germany's fight was with inflation; Britain's with recession. Germany's view dominated. Last week's traumas put in doubt the European system's future. "Unless France votes a resounding yes, economic unity is dead in its tracks," said Jeffrey E. Garten, author of "A Cold Peace: America, Japan, Germany and the Struggle for Supremacy."
 
France's Tight-Fisted Spenders
 
French voters, sauntering to the polls today to vote in the referendum on the Maastricht treaty on European unity, are doing it with belts tightened and the nation's retailers are complaining. The French economy, which had been bubbling along smartly, has lost much of its fizz. Unemployment is at 10 percent and the economy is expected to grow less than 2 percent this year -- a rate that is positively American. To move the merchandise, French retailers have been slashing prices. Even so, consumer goods remain in a slump. "The stores are bulging with merchandise, but budgets are tight," said Gerard Roudine of the French Ready-to-Wear Federation in Paris.

Tokyo Stock Market Defectors
 
In the 1980's, the General Motors Corporation sold stock in Tokyo to take advantage of Japan's buoyant market but couldn't find buyers for its cars. Soon, G.M. will begin exporting its much-praised Saturn cars to Japan but last week it said it would stop selling stock there. The problem, G.M. said, is that Tokyo's stock market -- briefly the world's largest until it collapsed -- can no longer slake G.M.'s thirst for capital. But G.M. is not the only company fleeing the Ginza. Avon Products Inc., the cosmetics firm; the FPL Group, a Florida utility; Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, and Philips N.V., the giant Dutch electronics firm, have all packed their bags. Not only is it expensive to sell stock in Japan, but "the number of shares and shareholders and trading volume in Japan have decreased and are not expected to increase in the future," said Paul W. Mandry, Avon's assistant general counsel..

The Dollar and the Trade Deficit
 
America's wisest economists said if you lowered the value of the dollar, exports would surge. Sure enough, for five years, as the dollar's value fell, American exports rose, though not enough to eradicate the trade gap. This year, though the dollar lost about 20 percent of its value against Europe's major currencies, the trade gap widened. In July, America imported $7.82 billion more than it exported, a 16.2 percent increase from June, the Commerce Department said. The problem is, analysts said, that America is recovering from its recession while Europe and Japan are still hunkering down. The largest drop was registered by the Boeing Company: It exported $898 million in July, down from $2.57 billion the month before.

Russian Aid, Round-Trip Ticket
 
All that tin-cup banging by Russia is starting to pay off. Not only is it scheduled to receive $18 billion in loans this year from the International Monetary Fund and Western donors including the United States, but last week, senior fund officials said Russia should receive another $3 billion next year from the fund itself. This year's money has been used to buy medicine and food; next year's should be used to buy machinery to rebuild Russia's sick economy, the fund said. Since the aid donors also manufacture the machinery the fund wants Russia to buy, presumably some of that money will find its way back home.

Airlines Consolidated
 
More consolidation in the world's airline business: Qantas Airlines Ltd., Australia's Government-owned international carrier, merged last week with the Government's domestic airline, Australian Airlines, in a $290 million deal. The merged carrier, with 120 aircraft and revenues of $4.1 billion, will be the world's 15th largest. Though the Government will maintain control over the carrier, it will sell shares to the public sometime next year.

When Is Rice a Processed Food?

Tokyo still hates inexpensive American rice. But Fujio Matsumoto, the owner of a 44-restaurant chain in Osaka, thinks he's found a way around the nation's import ban. Since Japan allows the importation of rice if it is part of a "fish-based processed food," Mr. Matsumoto has decided to air-freight sushi from California to Japan on a bed of flavored rice. The raw-fish-and-rice dish, Mr. Matsumoto maintains, is a single processed food. But don't look for sushi exports to turn America's trade deficit around. Japanese regulators have not yet said if they'll let it come into the country.

 
 
COMPANIES

 
Mellon's $1.5 Billion Buy
 
When Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. put the Boston Company on the block earlier this year, speculation ran high as to who would buy it. Last week, the Mellon Bank Corporation and Shearson announced a deal. Mellon would pay $1.5 billion in cash, stock and debt for the Boston Company, which has $34 billion in assets under management and provides big clients with fee-based banking, trust and custody services. Mellon, which spent five years cleaning up a troubled loan portfolio, has been moving aggressively into fee-based services. But it did not get a bargain. "The type of price they are paying for this transaction is hefty," said Thaddeus W. Paluszek, an analyst at Kidder Peabody & Company.
 
The 'Murphy Brown' Index
 
When real-life Vice President Dan Quayle took on the fictional TV character Murphy Brown over the character's decision to have a baby on her own, it catapulted CBS's highest-rated entertainment show even higher. Naturally, the family values tiff also elevated the rates CBS will charge to advertise on "Murphy Brown." For the 1992-93 season, a 30-second spot on the show will go for an average of $310,000, a 114 percent increase from last season's rate of $145,000. What's more, since Mr. Quayle's remarks attracted the attention of so many more couch potato[e]s in the critical 18 to 49 age group, the show is sold out through December.

Lufthansa Woos Continental
 
Continental Airlines, which flew into Chapter 11 of the Federal bankruptcy code in December 1990, attracted yet another suitor last week. Lufthansa German Airlines A.G. and Marvin Davis, the California financier, bid $400 million for Continental. Their offer follows Air Canada's bid of $400 million, an offer of $350 million from the Houston financier Charles Hurwitz and a $385 million proposal from Alfredo Brener, also of Houston. Like KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, which owns 49 percent of Northwest, and British Airlines, which is seeking to buy a majority stake in USAir, Lufthansa wants an American partner. But why would Lufthansa, which prides itself on service, want to team up with Continental, which has made its name on price? "Lufthansa does not want to be left out of the game," said Dan Kasper, an airline consultant at Harbridge House in Boston.

 
 
THE ECONOMY

 
August, and Inflation Is Tame
 
Good news on the inflation front, unless you're a devotee of TV's Juiceman: The Commerce Department's Consumer Price Index crept up by a slim 0.3 percent in August, and would have shown a nearly infinitesimal 0.1 percent rise had it not been for an 8.6 percent jump in the price of fruits and vegetables, the largest increase since January 1990. Except at the juice bar, the nation's annual inflation rate has been running at a tame 2.9 percent.

Moving In on Cable TV
 
Despite a flurry of negative ads on cable TV and intensive lobbying in Washington, the House passed a bill last week reregulating the cable TV industry. The bill, which passed easily, requires the Federal Communications Commission to set rates for basic cable and the price of the equipment needed to receive it as well as to define minimum service. It also gives local broadcast TV the right to negotiate fees from cable systems to carry their programs -- a move opposed by the motion picture industry, which fears it won't get any of the proceeds from the sales. The measure also requires cable networks, like MTV and Cable News Network, to license their services on equal terms to cable's competitors, like new direct-broadcast satellite TV systems. Though the measure is expected to pass easily in the Senate this week, the White House has threatened to veto it.

Hurricane-Driven Home Sales
 
At least one industry is reaping rewards from the devastation wrought by Hurricane Andrew. Orders for mobile homes have improved dramatically. The nation's largest manufacturer, Fleetwood Enterprises, reported a 75 percent increase in orders in the last few weeks compared with the same period last year. And as sales go, so go prices: "We have already seen one memo, saying that a small increase, about $250 per unit, will go into effect," said Daniel L. Vaughn, a sales consultant at the Hamptons Golf and Country Club, a community of manufactured homes.
 
Many homes in the path of Hurricane Andrew were blown away thanks to shoddy construction methods and lax enforcement of the building codes. But the 11 homes built in Andrew's path by hammer-swinging ex-President Jimmy Carter and his nonprofit group, Habitat for Humanity, all survived intact.

Compromise at the F.D.I.C.
 
It was a difficult decision for the Federal regulators to make: Raise Federal insurance fund rates for banks because the system is weak and the Government's losses must be covered, as Congress wanted; or lower rates -- as the banks wanted -- to keep weak banks from weakening further. So the regulators at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation compromised. They raised the rates they charge banks to insure each $100 on deposit by an average of 10.4 percent -- half as much as originally proposed. The Bush Administration was pleased with the decision. "I think this is a reasonable approach," said Deputy Treasury Secretary John E. Robson.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Major under the gun. (Reuters); Murphy Brown ; Carter at work.
 
Graphs track merchandise trade deficit, July 1991-July 1992 (Source: Commcerce Dept); percentage change in consumer prices from previous month, Aug. 1991-Aug. 1992 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AVP (NYSE) (80%); NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (80%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (65%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (91%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); 

COMPANY: AVON PRODUCTS INC (80%); NEWS CORP (80%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (65%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); RETAILERS (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); RECESSION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); REFERENDUMS (73%); ELECTRONICS (72%); BRITISH POUND (72%); COSMETICS (72%); GERMAN MARK (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); EXPORT PRICES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (65%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (62%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (61%); LAWYERS (60%); TOILETRIES MFG (60%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



618 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1818 words

HEADLINE: Dow Chemical's Cleanup Czar Unlocks the Gates

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

DATELINE: MIDLAND, Mich.

 BODY:
Four times a year, David T. Buzzelli, a vice president of the Dow Chemical Company, prepares for a meeting that could have a major impact on the company's operations. To get ready, he gathers information on manufacturing plans and product offerings, including material the company considers confidential.
But this is no ordinary meeting of executives. Instead, Mr. Buzzelli will share the company's plans with a panel of outsiders comprising Dow's Corporate Environmental Advisory Council. 
 Inviting environmental advocates to examine the way it conducts business is something new for Dow, which in the mid-1980's fought the Environmental Protection Agency all the way to the Supreme Court to prevent airplane inspections of its emissions. But it is typical of the things that have happened since Mr. Buzzelli was named two years ago as the company's first corporate vice president for environmental, health and safety matters.
Now, Dow has a program in place to cut its key toxic emissions in half by 1995. Plant managers who once ignored anyone beyond the fence are forming community advisory panels and inviting the neighbors in to see how things are done. And the company has pledged -- at least in theory -- to phase out products and applications that do not meet environmental standards.
Strong stuff for a company whose best-known product may still be the napalm it produced during the Vietnam War. But Mr. Buzzelli insists that Dow, the nation's second-largest chemical company after Du Pont and the maker of such best-selling consumer products as Saran Wrap and Ziploc bags, has changed. The company's future, he said, depends on how well it manages its environmental responsibilities and how convincing its efforts are to the public.
"Environment issues are a key factor in the financial success of the company," he said. "This is not about altruism. We concluded that people who do not pay attention to the environment will not be successful."
Not everyone is convinced Dow has gone completely green. Daniel J. Weiss, a legislative affairs director of the Sierra Club, said Dow is a leading member of the Chemical Manufacturers Association, which he said routinely lobbies against laws aimed at reducing emissions. "The company's engineers have realized they can save money by reducing pollution, but unfortunately that does not extend to their policymakers," Mr. Weiss said. "They still use political money and their contacts to block legislation."
But Manik Roy, a scientist with the Environmental Defense Fund, which is not a member of the Dow advisory council, said the company's new openness is a step in the right direction. "It's possible to work with these people, even if we do not agree with everything they say," he said.
Environmental advocates are not compromised by their participation on panels like the one at Dow, he said. "If nothing else, it never hurts to learn more about what they are doing," Mr. Roy said.
The seven-member council includes Lee Thomas, a former administrator of the E.P.A.; Joanna Underwood, president of Inform Inc., a New York-based environmental research organization, and Anthony Cortese, dean of environmental programs at Tufts University.
Whatever the true depth of Dow's commitment to the environment, Mr. Buzzelli represents a new breed of environmental manager, students of industry say.
In the past, many companies dumped the job on a staff type with little influence and no future. But Mr. Buzzelli was an important line manager, serving as president of Dow Canada, when he was tapped in August 1990 for his current post. "The stigma is gone," said Mr. Buzzelli, who now reports directly to Frank P. Popoff, Dow's chief executive, and is a member of the company's top-level management committee.
"In the old days, the environmental manager was the bearer of bad news, a janitor with a tie," said J. Gary Taylor, publisher of the newsletter Environmental Health & Safety Management. "But a guy like Dave Buzzelli has the respect of line managers. He brings credibility to the job."
People like Mr. Buzzelli are showing up on the organization charts of many top corporations, as the complexity and cost of meeting anti-pollution regulations has risen and public concerns about environmental issues have been translated into such laws as the Superfund and Clean Air acts. According to Arthur D. Little, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., 49 of the top 100 manufacturing companies in the country had vice presidents in charge of environmental affairs in 1991, up from 38 in 1990.
"Environmental stewardship is one of the biggest management challenges of the 1990's," said Stephen Poltorzycki, a director of Little's environmental consulting operations. The job used to be part of manufacturing, added Ladd Greeno, another consultant at Little. Now, he said, "it includes research and development, sourcing, sales and marketing, community relations and stockholder relations. The Dave Buzzellis are being asked to cut across many areas."
Indeed, Mr. Buzzelli says he is part executive and part pitchman, spending about half his time on internal company affairs and the rest meeting with public policy and environmental groups, giving interviews and making speeches. "The first year I gave 50 speeches," he said. "Reaching out has a high priority."
It is a role well suited to Mr. Buzzelli, who is 51 years old. Although a chemical engineer by background, he speaks glibly and without technical jargon. Of medium height and balding, he is quick to smile and tries to put visitors at ease with informality.
Mr. Buzzelli said Dow has long been concerned about the environment and pollution issues, and points to its relatively small $26 million Superfund liability as evidence. Other companies have liabilities amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars to clean up chemicals and other wastes dumped over the years.
"We established the first toxicology testing lab in history in 1935," Mr. Buzzelli said. "We started a pollution prevention program in 1965 because it made sense economically." Dow's Waste Reduction Always Pays, or WRAP, program, adopted in 1986, is often cited by environmentalists as a good example of how companies can save money by finding new uses for materials once discarded as waste.
But Mr. Buzzelli admits that most of these efforts were undertaken at the operating level, with little company-wide coordination. "E.H.S. was not very well integrated," he said.
His job, he said, is to "bring together globally" all of Dow's environmental undertakings. And his writ also includes looking at the company's line of products and the uses to which they are put after being sold and how they are ultimately disposed.
"My job is to integrate E.H.S. into the basic business strategy of the company," said Mr. Buzzelli, whose operations involve 2,600 of Dow's 62,000 employees. "We want the business managers to take ownership of the issue. That is relatively new for us."
Yet it is Mr. Buzzelli -- and fellow E.H.S. executives at other companies -- who could wind up holding the bag if a major environmental disaster occurs.
Defense lawyers warn that recent anti-pollution legislation and sentencing guidelines could make environmental managers the subject of criminal prosecution, in effect the designated jailbird.
"With the advent of these guidelines, corporate management and employees in the environmental area are for the first time truly at risk of going to jail," said Paul G. Wallach of the Washington firm of Hale & Dorr in a paper prepared for an environmental conference earlier this year.
Mr. Buzzelli said it is not something he spends much time worrying about. "I do not focus on legal liability, personally," he said, adding that the company conducts regular environmental audits and moves quickly to correct problems that are uncovered.
Bringing in environmentalists to comment on the company's products and operations has been a bracing exercise, Mr. Buzzelli admits, particularly for a company that is a major producer of plastics. Plastic products and packaging have been a special target of environmental advocates because they are usually brightly colored and conspicuous, are typically used only for a short time and endure for centuries after disposal.
Nevertheless, Mr. Buzzelli said the process has been useful. In a recent talk to the Midland Rotary Club, Mr. Buzzelli said the Corporate Environmental Advisory Council has had a "significant influence on the company. We are hearing things we've never heard before."
The opportunity to get the ear of top management made joining the council "utterly irresistible," said Ms. Underwood, president of Inform. Council members, she said, "can request any information we want from the company, including information it regards as confidential." While it is still too soon to see much substantive change, she said, Dow appears to be making a good-faith effort to listen.
Mr. Cortese, the dean at Tufts who is also on the council, agreed. He cited "some pretty impressive discussions, not just with the E.H.S. people, but with the ones who actually run the business."
He, too, said it is still too early to assess whether the company really has embraced green values. "They still have a long way to go," he said, "but it is very interesting to watch the transformation."
 
 
AUDITS ACROSS THE SEA
 Environmental audits are becoming one of the major tools used by manufacturers to insure compliance with the increasingly complex web of anti-pollution laws and regulations.
At Dow, each operating unit undergoes a company-run audit every two years. Last year, more than 120 audits were performed at Dow facilities worldwide, said David T. Buzzelli, the company's vice president for environmental, health and safety matters.
Like the financial audits they are patterned on, environmental audits compare a facility's operations with company and regulatory standards. Mr. Buzzelli said the audits are "very, very specific," measuring discharges of chemicals and checking to see that a spill protection device is in place if one is required.
However, Mr. Buzzelli does not have a small army of auditors who sally forth from Dow's headquarters in Midland, Mich., to check on the company's operations in 33 countries. Instead, teams of line managers from one geographic unit go into the plants of another unit to conduct the reviews. Americans, for example, usually audit European plants.
The audits, which generally take about a week, are used at several levels. Local managers are expected to correct any deficiencies that are uncovered. And senior management uses them to make sure that local managers are moving quickly enough to solve any problems.
"We have a long history of tight internal standards," Mr. Buzzelli said. "Usually our internal standards are tighter than federal and state regulations."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David T. Buzzelli, Dow's vice president for environment, health and safety, at the company's incinerator in Midland, Mich. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (94%); DOW (NYSE) (94%); DOW (LSE) (94%); 4850 (TSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (54%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); BIHAR, INDIA (54%); 

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) DOW CHEMICAL CO (94%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOW CHEMICAL CO; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (54%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); BIHAR, INDIA (54%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); CHEMICALS (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); LOBBYING (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); INSPECTIONS (69%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (69%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: BUZZELLI, DAVID T; BUZZELLI, DAVID T (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) DAVID T BUZZELLI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



619 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Computer;
Zenith Looks for Blue Skies Beyond the Air Force Contract

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis

 BODY:
The news earlier this month that the Zenith Data Systems Corporation, a division of France's Groupe Bull, had won a $740 million Air Force contract for 300,000 desktop computers marked the third time in four recent Government contracts that Zenith caught the gold ring.
While the final disposition of the contract is not yet certain -- the Air Force decision has been protested by the Compuadd Corporation of Austin, Tex. -- Zenith Data already holds 37 percent of the Federal personal computer market, based on machines now installed. Those contracts have provided the company with a solid base. 
 But to flourish it must parlay its success in the Government sector into a greater share of the corporate computing market. It has taken a strong step in that direction with its newest machines, designated the Z-Station, Z-Server and Z-Note computer.
"They're headed back," said Bruce A. Stephen, director of PC hardware research at the International Data Corporation, a market research company in Framingham, Mass. "They've been through a down period, but I think with their recent improvements in products, this may help their cachet in the market."
Once the leader in portable computers, largely on the basis of earlier Government contracts, Zenith Data stumbled badly in the late 1980's.
"Our market share calculations show them dropping from a 6.1 percent share of the Intel-based PC market in 1988 to 2.1 percent in 1991," said Michael K. Kwatinetz, a research analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, an investment research company in New York City.
Significantly, Zenith Data won the latest Air Force contract on the basis of its standard business computers, not models specially modified for the military. Now the higher manufacturing volumes expected under the contract may help Zenith Data compete in the broader computer arena with its larger and richer rivals, Mr. Kwatinetz suggested.
The Air Force contract, known as Desktop 4, was originally won by Compuadd and Sysorex Information Systems Inc. of Falls Church, Va. Zenith Data and several other losing bidders protested the award, claiming that the procedures had not been fair because in its attempt to expedite the decision the Air Force had knocked out all other bidders on the technical grounds. The Air Force agreed to reopen the competition, and Zenith Data won.
Zenith Data executives bristle at talk of a "comeback," noting their previous Government contracts. But there was a considerable gap between the second and third awards, and Zenith appeared to be catching some Z's rather than making them. Competition intensified, especially in the portable category from the Toshiba Corporation of Japan and the Compaq Computer Corporation of Houston. Zenith did not respond. The period culminated with the sale of Zenith Data to Groupe Bull, which had previously acquired Honeywell Inc.'s operations in the United States.
Once the sale was completed last year, Zenith Data got a new president, Enrico Pesatori, hired by Groupe Bull from Olivetti. He stepped on the gas, and Zenith Data completely overhauled and redesigned its line of desktop, server and portable computers. The new systems are very impressive.
"They upped their R.&D. budget by 235 percent" in the last year, said Mr. Stephen of International Data, "and the fruits were the Z-Station and Z-Note lines. They're very ergonomically appealing and have good feature sets." The Z-Station was introduced after Zenith bid on the Air Force contract, which it will fill with older models.
More than any other company's line of products, the Zenith Data Z-Note and Z-Station computers are designed for use in a modern corporate environment: Each machine has built-in network connectors, can be fully upgraded to incorporate future technologies and has features making it easier to use.
"They've had very aggressive rollouts both in the notebook and desktop arenas," said Randal A. Giusto, senior PC analyst for Workgroup Technologies Inc., a Hampton, N.H., research company.
The Z-machines are also packaged in stylish new cases designed by Frog Design Inc., based in Menlo Park, Calif., that created the looks for Next Inc., Apple Computer Inc., Sun Microsystems and several others.
Attractive products, of course, are just one part of the success equation in today's PC industry. Zenith Data faces the challenges of the economy as well as the competition.
"There's a price war going on, we're in the middle of a recession and corporate computer managers are cutting back on purchases," Mr. Giusto said. "What you need to compete in the marketplace are low prices, attractive products, effective channels for distribution, and loyal resellers."
Zenith Data overhauled its distribution system earlier this year, and the best way to sum it up is that the company, based in the Chicago suburb of Buffalo Grove, Ill., will sell a computer any way a customer wants to order it up.
The company has a network of authorized dealers; a direct sales force that works with large corporate, Government and education accounts, and now catalogue sales operation to satisfy customers who prefer to order equipment by phone. It also plans to start selling some models in computer and office supply stores.
As of last week -- in the current climate prices can change week to week -- catalogue prices for the Z-Station desktop computers ranged from $1,699 for a 25-megahertz Intel 386SX model with an 80-megabyte hard disk, to $3,799 for a 66-megahertz i486DX model with 200 megabytes of storage. All models come with 4 megabytes of system memory.
There are basically two different styles of Z-Station, a sleek "pizza box" unit with two internal expansion slots, and a larger four-slot model. The user can choose either the industry-standard architecture (ISA) slot configuration, which is suitable for most business applications, or the more powerful EISA (extended) configuration.
The prices include built-in hardware and software for attaching the Z-Station to local area networks using the Ethernet system. More than half the computers used in businesses are now hooked to a network, making this a very important feature.
The only catch is that there are three different types of physical wiring for Ethernet networks (thick, thin or twisted-pair), so a $99 adapter is needed to connect the Z-Station's network port to the proper wiring scheme.
Another snazzy feature is the ease with which the computer can be upgraded. A single screw opens the case, and the internal components snap in and out without tools.
Zenith Data is still more widely known for its portables, which fight in one of the most competitive arenas in the complicated computer industry. The new Z-Note notebook computer costs from $1,999 to $4,999, depending on features. Like the Z-Station, it comes with built-in networking and snap-in components.
Perhaps the portables' slickest feature is an optional attachment called the Readydesk, a $149 device that weighs less than a pound and attaches to the back of the computer. The Readydesk has parallel and serial ports, two PS/2-type ports for attaching a mouse and a full-size keyboard, a monitor plug for using a color VGA desktop monitor, and an AC power plug -- all of which allow the Z-Note to be used on the desk and on the road with a minimum of hassles.
Compared with some desktop "docking stations" used with other portables, the Readydesk is cheap and elegant.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BULL (PAR) (94%); TOS (LSE) (80%); 6502 (TSE) (80%); HON (NYSE) (60%); HON (LSE) (60%); HPQ (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (66%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (60%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS CORP ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS CORP (94%); BULL SAS (94%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (82%); TOSHIBA CORP (80%); COMPUADD CORP (72%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (66%); SYSOREX INFORMATION SYSTEMS INC (63%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (60%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (60%); US AIR FORCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS CORP US AIR FORCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



620 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
The Many Voices of Newsletters

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
Most mutual fund investors -- in fact, all investors -- would love a peek at tomorrow's financial pages. Next best is someone who can predict movements in the financial markets, and among those prognosticators are the seers for investment newsletters who specialize in guiding fund investors.
But look at what some of well-ranked and widely read newsletter advisers were recommending last month: buy, sell and hold -- stay fully invested, raise cash. From that conflicting advice emerges a comforting notion for ordinary investors: There's more than one way to invest successfully. 
 Mutual funds were created so investors could use professional money managers to pick stocks. But with 3,000-plus funds, there is so much choice -- and confusion -- that newsletters cropped up to help investors pick the portfolio managers who pick the stocks for the funds. Then came the Hulbert Financial Digest, in Alexandria, Va., which ranks the newsletters that help investors pick the portfolio managers who pick the stocks for the funds. It tracks 130 investment newsletters of which 60 specialize in guiding fund investors. And their outlooks differ markedly, as a look at their August issues shows.
Take the Noload Fund X, a San Francisco-based letter devoted solely to mutual funds, which took second place, behind the Chartist, when ranked by 12-year total return through June 30, 1992. Burton Berry, its editor, noted last month that while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index yield had slipped below 3 percent, a record and always a sign of an overpriced market, today's high valuations "can be rationalized with optimism on future earnings growth and dividend increases," low interest rates and more. In August, he told subscribers to replace three of the five funds in his long-term portfolio, which now comprises Century Shares, Vanguard Equity-Income, Copley, Gintel Erisa and Fidelity Equity-Income II.
William E. Donoghue of Donoghue's Moneyletter, in Ashland, Mass., was also optimistic; despite signs that the economy refuses to pick up steam, he wrote, the late-summer rallies in the domestic stock and bond markets were an encouraging sign that the fundamentals are sound. But unlike Mr. Berry, he urged readers to make no changes in their portfolios. Investors in his maximum growth portfolio were advised to remain at 65 percent in domestic stocks, 20 percent in international bonds and 15 percent in specialty funds. Mr. Donoghue's conservative portfolio consists of Legg Mason Value Trust, Neuberger & Berman Guardian, T. Rowe Price Equity-Income, Scudder Short-Term and International Bonds, Vanguard Bond Market and Blanchard Short-Term Global Income.
But Gerald W. Perritt, editor of the Mutual Fund Letter in Chicago, which came in close behind the Donoghue letter in the Hulbert rankings, had a dour view of the financial markets that contrasts sharply with Mr. Donoghue's optimism. In August, he wrote: "Count us among the bears regarding the stock market's near-term prospects." He is concerned about sluggish economic growth, the 30-year low in short-term interest rates and the high level of unemployment. Corporate earnings failing to materialize as expected in 1993, or interest rates finally reversing, or a victory by Gov. Bill Clinton seeming imminent, could have a catastrophic effect on the markets.
He advised conservative investors to use any market rallies to raise cash; for long-term investors, he recommended funds with a value approach to investing in smaller companies. His growth and income portfolio comprises Bartlett Basic Value, Dodge & Cox Balanced, Lindner Fund and Lindner Dividend, T. Rowe Price's Small-Cap Value and Equity-Income, Benham ARM plus 18 percent in a money fund.
Jack Bowers, editor of the Fidelity Monitor, in Rocklin, Calif., which had the best five-year and three-year record, wrote that the falling dollar was bad for the short term because it pushes up prices on imported commodities like oil and precious metals, and causes nervous foreign investors to sell United States securities. But over time a falling dollar is bullish because American exports are lower-priced. He recommended no change in the two funds in his growth portfolio, Fidelity's Contrafund (38 percent) and Equity-Income II (62 percent).
Slightly behind the Monitor in the Hulbert five-year rankings was the Mutual Fund Forecaster, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Its editor, Norman Fosback, discounted all economic factors but the Federal Reserve's easy money policy; so long as the Fed keeps priming the monetary pump, he wrote, it's good news for investors.
The letter's econometric model projects a 13 percent gain in the Standard & Poor's 500 next year; add a 3 percent dividend yield for a 16 percent total return. At least 50 percent of a portfolio should be invested in equity funds, Mr. Fosback advised, and he replaced one of the five funds marked as "best buys" -- now 20th Century Ultra, Janus 20, Financial Industrial Income, Phoenix Balanced and a closed-end fund, General American Investors.
Considering the conflicting recommendations of these experts, the best advice for investors is to construct a diversified portfolio of funds with solid, long-term track records and monitor it every so often for any relevant changes.

GRAPHIC: Table lists top mutual fund newsletters, ranked by portfolio return. (Source: Mark Hulbert)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: HULBERT FINANCIAL DIGEST LEGG MASON INC (51%); HULBERT FINANCIAL DIGEST (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: HULBERT FINANCIAL DIGEST HULBERT FINANCIAL DIGEST (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); VIRGINIA, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; NEWSLETTERS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (99%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RANKINGS (76%); DIVIDENDS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE WILLIAM E DONOGHUE (83%); EQUITY-INCOME SCUDDER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



621 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 1; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Hip-Hop's Hostile Takeover

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

 BODY:
QUINCY Jones is ecstatic, in a millionaire jazzman sort of way, about the news that the Tower Records outlets on both coasts have sold out of thousands of preview issues of a magazine he just founded.
Vibe, an oddly slick and gritty publication that is bankrolled by Time Inc., is poised to enormously enlarge the already insistent voice of rap and hip-hop music. If the magazine can find a broad enough readership, as its backers certainly hope it will, Americans of all stripes may one day be deeply affected by the urgency of hip-hop style and the brooding inner-urban attitude that is so much a part of its culture. 
 At its most basic, hip-hop is a highly inventive, black-inspired, urban youth cultural esthetic. It is expressed in a broad range of disciplines -- music, dance, politics, the visual arts, humor and life style. At its core, hip-hop is a brightly-colored yet edgey challenge to the status quo.
Vibe's mission, as Mr. Jones is fond of saying, is to be a "Rolling Stone for the hip-hop generation."
And if the magazine's ultimate effect is to forever meld hip-hop's counter-culture energy to the mainstream, then so be it, Mr. Jones said.
"It's going to happen anyway," he said without a note of dismay.
Last week, the same week that Vibe appeared on the newsstands, Donna Karan and Calvin Klein, who are nothing if not mainstream designers, dressed models at their shows in Timberline boots and baggy, drop-crotched jeans; some models at Klein even wore their Calvins backwards, a direct swipe of the style popularized less than a year ago by the junior high school rappers, Kris Kross. Donna Karan even threw in a few hip-hop-attired kids for good measure.
"Isn't that what capitalism does?" asked Kennedy Fraser, a former fashion critic for New Yorker magazine, somewhat rhetorically. "It takes a certain kind of energy -- in this case a certain kind of rage -- packages and markets it and makes it safe and sells it back."
She points out that an essential element of fashion is to reflect "what is going on."
These days, she said, that appears to be the street culture of hip-hop. Its appropriation is clearly not anything new.
The history of popular culture in America can be described as a long, seductive dance between what society considers safe and respectful with that it also deems mysteriously new, naughty and dangerous. Malcolm Cowley, chronicler of the so-called "Lost Generation," recognized this dance almost 60 years ago.
When America's commerical interests needed a new domestic market early in the century, it turned to tenents of the Boheminan sub-culture for an answer.
"Thus, self-expression and paganism encouraged a demand for all sorts of products, modern furniture, beach pajamas, cosmetics, colored bathrooms with toilet paper to match," Mr. Cowley wrote. "Living for the moment meant buying an automobile, radio or house, using it now and paying for it tomorrow."
Greil Marcus, a pop culture critic who lives in Berkley, said the process Mr. Cowley described is still with us today -- with key modifications.
Few, if any, who are part of contemporary America's sub- or counter-cultures are interested in being starving artists.
"People are not interested in living a romantic, impoverished, Bohemian life," Mr. Marcus said. "They want to make money, the want to achieve a level of society in which they can protect themselves."
"When it comes to the economics of culture," he said, "hip-hop musicians, in general, are not fools."
The rapper Ice T., who is as controversial as he is authentic, is unapologetic about being a millionaire with a big house on a hill and $70,000 sports cars. Mr. Marcus calls Ice T.a capitalist-artist, emblematic of a legion of hip-hoppers, many of whom are black and from impoverished neighborhoods, who, in the language of the streets, just want to get paid.
The result, many agree, has been a quickening of the pace in which something appears on Malcolm X Boulevard and then on Madison Avenue.
Russell Simmons, who at 34 years of age is a rap industry pioneer, said selling out is exactly what the hip-hop generation wants to do.
"Black kids want to be sold out, as in there ain't no more records left, no more tickets for your concert," said Mr. Simmons. "Black people like to see people large. The more cars and houses and places rappers go, the badder they are.
"Being a starving artist," he said, "is not that cool in the ghetto."
Mr. Simmons, whose company, Rush Communications, handles a slew of rap and hip-hot artists, was until two months ago Mr. Jones's partner at Vibe.
"I resigned," Mr. Simmons said, adding that he remains good friends with Mr. Jones and wishes him success.
He also said that he believed the magazine's staff seemed out of tune with hip-hop sensibilities. An example, he offered, is the fact that Jonathan Van Meter, the editor in chief, is gay, something he has openly discussed with critics.
"I don't think that makes me homophobic to say that," Mr. Simmons said. "I just think that the most homophobic group invading popular culture in the last 50 years are probably rappers. I would like to see some straight black man involved in the editing of this magazine, someone whose experiences are similar to that of the rappers."
He said his departure from the magazine was hastened by what he perceived to be the publication's direction. He characterized Vibe, produced by a mostly black editorial staff , as an "outsider's magazine."
Mr. Van Meter does not share Mr. Simmons' assement of his magazine.
"It is a strong, black music culture magazine," he said, "essentially conceived of for everyone who likes the music -- black, white, Asian, Latino or female."
"It has to be true to hip-hop and true to journalism," he said.
But others, like James Bernard, a columnist and senior editor of the Source, a much grittier hip-hop publication than Vibe, is worried about Time Inc. and other powerful corporations of its kind trying to enter the inner world of hip-hop.
"They are the ones who pressured Ice T. to pull "Cop Killer," said Mr. Bernard, referring to the rapper's decision not to have the controversial heavy metal released on his latest CD. "This is a corporation that almost spearheaded the neutering of rap and here they are trying to be an organ for it at the same time."
"Hip-hop is where so many people are finding meaning in their lives," he continued. "I don't think it's fair to mess around with this."
Jann S. Wenner, editor and publisher of Rolling Stone, said that he, unlike some rock and hip-hop purists, is not disturbed when the counter-culture becomes part of the mainstream.
"Now we are the mainstream," he said of his baby boom generation. "We are the biggest part of the population, the best educated, coming into our most prosperous years."
Unlike the parents and community leaders of the 1950's that long resisted rock and roll, the arbitors of contemporary American taste were more likely shaped by the Rolling Stones and Vietnam. As a result, he suggested, the post-World War II generation is a much more open-minded about change than previous generations.
"Today, society is much more loosened up," said Mr. Wenner, who founded Rolling Stone a quarter of a century ago.
He added: "There's not this brick wall anymore."
But from the pages of Vibe comes a different, darker perspective expressed in the lyrics of a hip-hop song by Naughty by Nature:
If you ain't never been to the ghetto
Don't ever come to the ghetto!

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vibe's mission, says Quincy Jones, is to be a "Rolling Stone for the hip-hop generation." And if that means hip-hop becomes mainstream, so be it. At the Calvin Klein show, a model wore her Calvin's backward, like the rappers Kris Kross. An essential element of fashion is to reflect "what is going on," said Kennedy Fraser, the former fashion critic of The New Yorker. At Donna Karan's show last week, she put a few children into hip-hop gear. (Kim Garnick/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Quincy Jones wants Vibe to be a home for the hip-hop sensibility. (Lee Crum/Outline); The staff of Vibe, left to right: Diane Cardwell, Jonathan Van Meter, Scott Poulson-Bryant, Emil Wilbekin and Stefan C. Campbell. (Jeff Weiner for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: TIME INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; RAP MUSIC; MUSIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; BLACKS (IN US) HIP HOP CULTURE (92%); RAP MUSIC (91%); MUSIC STORES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); TAKEOVERS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); DANCE (73%); VISUAL ARTS (68%); CHILDREN (67%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); 

PERSON: MARRIOTT, MICHEL QUINCY JONES (92%); RICHARD 'CALVIN' KLEIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



622 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Selling Arms to Keep Jobs: The Signals It Sends Abroad

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Shortly after President Bush announced that he was selling 72 F-15 jet fighters to Saudi Arabia, Senator Christopher Bond of Missouri, where the planes are made, sent around a fax boasting that he would be shepherding the sale through Congress. Mr. Bond didn't even try to justify the sale in military or foreign policy terms. He said simply that it "will allow the thousands of Missourians who build F-15's to stay on the job for years to come and to continue their critical contribution to our nation's security."
That was at least honest; unlike foreign arms sales during the cold war, which usually had a strategic rationale, or could pretend they did, this one appears to have been driven exclusively by an effort to secure jobs and votes at home. It is part and parcel of the pork-barrel diplomacy instituted by the Bush Administration as it scrambles for a second term. And whatever this may do for its re-election chances, such sales also are going to have serious consequences for American foreign policy vis-a-vis China, Europe and the Middle East after Nov. 3. 
 Passing out goodies in the election season to win votes is a tradition long honored by both Republicans and Democrats. But this time around there are some big potential problems. To begin with, because the American Government doesn't have many resources of its own to hand out these days, the Administration has had to hand out other people's pork: $9 billion in sales and 10,000 jobs in Missouri, thanks to the Saudis, and $5 billion in sales and 6,000 jobs at the General Dynamics F-16 assembly line in Texas, courtesy of Taiwan.
There is nothing necessarily wrong with Government make-work jobs to help lift a recession-plagued economy, but many economists and foreign-policy experts argue that using arms sales generates the wrong jobs. The moment when the cold war is over, these critics say, is the moment when the nation should be concentrating on converting its defense industrial complex to civilian purposes so it can more effectively compete with Japan and Germany.
Instead, the Administration is funneling money into defense industries to make weaponry designed for the cold war, as though nothing had changed. McDonnell-Douglas would have had to shut down its F-15 assembly line, and been forced to look into different businesses, if it were not for this sale -- a sale the Saudis themselves were not even sure they wanted and actually had pressed on them by the Administration.
"These jobs building fighter planes are fossil jobs that are inappropriate for the economy we need and the world we live in," said Jeffrey E. Garten, an expert on international economics at The Blackstone Group, an investment bank. "By throwing money at them we are only extending the dead end a few more years. They involve technologies with limited applicability and utility for the civilian economy. If we are going to dig into the pork barrel at least we could do it to support the manufacture of things like liquid display computer screens, advanced robotics, high-speed trains and environmental technologies."
In less political times, Mr. Bush said as much himself. On March 6, 1991, immediately after the gulf war, the President declared before a joint session of Congress: "It would be tragic if the nations of the Middle East and Persian Gulf were now, in the wake of the war, to embark on a new arms race." He added: "We cannot lead a new world abroad if, at home, it's politics as usual on American defense and diplomacy. It's time to turn away from the temptation to protect unneeded weapons systems and obsolete bases." And, he said, "It is time to rise above the parochial and the pork barrel, to do what is necessary, what's right, and what will enable this nation to play the leadership role required of us."
But Mr. Bush appears to be making far-reaching economic decisions on the basis of what will help him during the next seven weeks, when the country needs decisions that will make sense for the next seven years.
The United States faced a similar critical juncture at the end of World War II, when its arms industry suddenly lost much of its domestic market. But at that time there was such pent-up demand for consumer products that workers and factories that had been retooled in 1942 to make war materiel could easily switch back to making refrigerators and toasters. In today's slumping world economy that is not the case, so one quick and obvious way to keep the arms workers employed is to export warplanes America no longer needs. That is one reason that "foreign policy is increasingly becoming commercial policy," said Charles William Maynes, editor of Foreign Policy magazine.
 
A Question of Consistency
 This, of course, seems clearly at odds with the Administration's stated arms control policies, and other nations have been quick to ask how America can continue to preach to others about the need to restrain arms sales to regional hot spots.
Last week, China announced it would no longer attend the talks in Paris -- organized by the Bush Administration -- at which the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council have been discussing ways of limiting arms shipments to the Middle East. The Chinese were quite blunt: If Washington is going to feel free to sell arms to Taiwan, China will feel free to sell to Iran or Syria or Pakistan.
Up to now Mr. Bush's controversial China policy was, if nothing else, consistent. He vetoed every attempt by Congress to use economic sanctions to try to moderate Beijing's human rights behavior, arguing that constructive engagement with Beijing would better enable Washington to rein in China's missile and nuclear sales. He also said that as long as a power struggle was under way in Beijing, trade sanctions would only play into the hands of hard-liners.
By suddenly deciding to sell arms to Taiwan, in direct violation of the 1982 Chinese-American communique promising that the United States would do no such thing, Mr. Bush has undercut the logic of his own policy.
Moreover, said Morton I. Abramowitz, president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, "For a President who was establishing a new world order to massively violate a written agreement is hardly conducive to world order."
As for Mr. Bush's decision to offer Midwest farmers new wheat export subsidies of $1 billion, the move does not exactly bode well for future trade relations. The so-called "Uruguay Round" of global trade talks has been stalled for years precisely because the United States has been insisting that the European Community slash subsidies to its small family farmers.
"What it shows us," said Dominique Moisi, Deputy Director of the French Institute for International Affairs, "is that in an increasingly tough world the Americans are doing like everybody else, only they are giving lectures at the same time. America has always been at its best when it was secure, and an insecure, selfish America will really be a problem for us, especially since we are going through our own identity crisis."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush beside an F-15 fighter this month in St. Louis as he announced the sale of 72 of the McDonnell-Douglas jets to Saudi Arabia. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (53%); BX (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); TAIWAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (53%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (50%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAIWAN; SAUDI ARABIA; TAIWAN UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); TAIWAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); MISSOURI, USA (95%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMS SALES ABROAD ARMS TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); COLD WAR (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L GEORGE W BUSH (88%); KIT BOND (88%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



623 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
This Year, All Sure Bets Are Off

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS who endured the barrage of angry commercials and bitter debates of their Democratic primary may not see it that way, but the secret elections of 1992 have really been the contests for seats in the United States Senate. As a national phenomenon, they have hardly been noticed.
Only one development, the nomination of a record 11 women, has drawn attention to Senate elections. But another important theme is likely to develop in the 35 Senate races. The striking success of women is a clue to the later lesson as well -- that voters want change. A woman as a Senate candidate, after all, symbolizes change even before she announces her platform. 
 Most party leaders expect that more than half of the those elected will be new to the job. "I keep trying to tell all of the apparently safe incumbents not to take anything for granted," said Senator Charles S. Robb of Virginia. "I think we are going to have record turnover," said Senator Phil Gramm, a Republican from Texas. "The old rules about who is safe and who's not just don't apply."
For example, a well-financed incumbent who gets home regularly, especially in a small state that values seniority, ought to be safe if the other party can't get its strongest possible opponent to take him on. Well, Republicans could not persuade Gov. Carroll Campbell of South Carolina to run against Senator Ernest F. Hollings, chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee. And polls show him leading the eventual Republican nominee, former Representative Tommy Hartnett.
Still, few observers would label Mr. Hollings "safe." The reason was clear in television ads last week. Mr. Hollings put on an ad in which he said, "If those boys in Washington cared half as much about your checkbook as they do about their own, we could get this country moving again." Mr. Hartnett fired back with an ad saying " 'Those boys in Washington!' Can you believe that from someone who has been one of the boys in Washington for 26 years?" Mr. Hollings is trying to avoid the appearance of a Senate insider; Mr. Hartnett is trying to keep him from shrugging it off.
A striking factor running through Senate races is the unusual boost Democratic candidates feel from their Presidential ticket. "In a Presidential year, we usually worry about how much rain is coming through the roof," said Bob Squier, a Democratic consultant. This year, he recalled watching two United States Senators crowd each other to stand closer to Gov. Bill Clinton when he arrived in Birmingham.
There is probably no state where the Clinton-Bush race is more of a factor than New York. Attorney General Bob Abrams wants to be as close as he can to Mr. Clinton -- who appears to be more defined than Mr. Abrams and now holds an overwhelming lead. Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, who was helped to his victory in 1980 by Ronald Reagan's win in New York, is trying to make it seem as if the latest Republican President is about as connected to his political fortunes as a pothole is to a constitutional amendment banning abortion.
The Presidential contest may also affect Senate results if the evanescent Ross Perot candidacy draws many to the polls who would otherwise stay home. Those "untied" voters would be likely to vote against any incumbent, argues Eddie Mahe, a Republican consultant.
Analyses of the 1992 elections continually focus on the disadvantages of incumbency, and on the advantages of being a woman candidate. Those concepts are, in fact, intertwined. The women generally regarded as having the best chance of being elected -- Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein in California and Carol Moseley Braun in Illinois -- are hardly political outsiders. Ms. Boxer is a fifth-term congresswoman with 143 overdrafts, Ms. Feinstein has been a mayor and an unsuccessful gubernatorial candidate, and Ms. Braun a Cook County organization legislator and the Recorder of Deeds.
In a year of dissatisfaction with politics as usual, those credentials might well be a handicap. But each won a primary and is favored in a general election in considerable part because being a woman instantly made her something different from the typical candidate. Ellen Malcolm, head of Emily's List, the influential campaign organization, argues that their experience is a convincing credential to voters who conclude that a woman who has succeeded in the traditionally male business of politics must be special, and not just a hack.
 
Probably More Democrats
 There are three other Democratic women with a real chance of winning -- Lynn Yeakel in Pennsylvania, Gerri Rothman-Serot in Missouri and Patty Murray in Washington. But the first two are underdogs against hard-working incumbents. And Ms. Murray's race against Representative Rod Chandler has not yet taken clear shape. Each won a party nomination on Tuesday.
Judgments made more than six weeks before Election Day are almost certain to have holes in them. There will surely be more last-minute surprises than usual. But the general impression is that there is likely to be a net Democratic gain, possibly of as many as the three seats necessary to get to the 60 that can cut off Senate filibusters, and just perhaps still more than that.
But that was not how it looked 18 months ago. Mr. Gramm predicted that Southern Democrats who voted against war in the Persian Gulf, like Mr. Hollings or Terry Sanford in North Carolina or Wyche Fowler in Georgia would lose, and Republicans might win a majority because there were 20 Democratic seats to be defended against only 15 in Republican hands.
One or more of those Southern Democrats may still be defeated, but overall, more Republican than Democratic seats are in jeopardy. Democrats are defending, with various degrees of concern, their seats in Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Ohio, North Carolina, South Carolina and Washington. But Republicans have to look out for seats in Alaska, California, Idaho, Missouri, New Hampshire, New York, Oregon, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
Norman Ornstein, an expert on Congress at the American Enterprise Institute, said the key reason was that "when Republicans had great opportunities, they didn't come up with great candidates." And Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, argues that the shift has come about because the idea of a Republican realignment had no basis in fact and because the feeble economy and transparent efforts to hide it behind a "family values" campaign hurt Republicans.
Six and 12 years ago, this particular set of Senate seats produced shifts in control of the Senate. Republicans startled the Democrats when they swept into power in the 1980 elections, achieving a majority despite several weak candidates, who in turn were ousted when the Democrats won the Senate back in 1986. But 1992 is different; there is no chance the Republicans' will overturn the Democrats' current 57 to 43 majority.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; WOMEN ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM BILL CLINTON (79%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



624 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: EUROPE IN TURMOIL;
INDUSTRIAL NATIONS STRIVE TO RESOLVE CRISIS ON CURRENCY

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Finance ministers and central bankers of the leading industrial countries met here for more than seven hours today, searching for a way out of Europe's currency crisis and forging contingency plans in case the financial markets erupt again on Monday.
In a brief communique after the meeting, the officials gave no clear indication of whether Germany had agreed to lower its interest rates further, as many countries have pressed it to do. 
 But eyes were on France as much as Germany as the ministers sequestered themselves at Dunbarton House, a 200-year-old mansion in Georgetown surrounded by a high brick wall that is the headquarters of the National Society of the Colonial Dames of America.
 
Narrow Vote Seen in France
 French citizens will vote on Sunday on a single European currency and other bold steps toward European unity, and the vote is expected to be close. Foreign exchange traders predict that a rejection of the Maastricht Treaty will bring the franc and other European currencies under heavy fire, just as the Italian lira and British pound were driven down in value this week.
In contrast to the harsh words exchanged on Friday by British and German leaders, Norman Lamont, Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, took pains after today's meeting not to criticize Germany.
"Everybody is of the view that we would like, including the Germans, that we would like in time to see lower interest rates," he told reporters.
 
Germans Vow to Hold Firm
 German officials continued to insist this evening that they and the nation's central bank, the Bundesbank, would not be swayed by outside pressures. "These decisions have to be taken on the basis of sound economic policy," said Horst Kohler, Under Secretary of Germany's Finance Ministry.
The communique included a clear signal of a preference for lower rates. The group noted that several countries had recently lowered interest rates and said, "These measures will strengthen the global economic recovery and foster greater stability of exchange markets."
By all accounts, this meeting of the Group of Seven, scheduled months before the European currency system exploded this week, was a calm one. American officials said they firmly made their views known about why they favored lower interest rates; German officials said they firmly responded why they did not think that was appropriate.
This afternoon, President Bush invited the ministers and bankers from two dozen industrial and developing countries to a Sunday meeting at the White House, making the most of an opportunity to demonstrate global leadership during his re-election campaign. Administration officials have made clear that they think the United States has much more to fear from European fragmentation than from European consolidation.
 
Problems With the System
 At the center of the talks here was the 11-nation European Monetary System, created in 1979 to link exchange rates in order to eliminate fluctuations and to provide a stability that would encourage trade, investment and growth.
Germany's high interest rates have forced other nations to keep their rates high to prevent their currencies from sliding in value against the mark. But these higher rates hurt investment and growth in Europe. On Monday, the Bundesbank cut its main interest rate by a quarter point, the first such reduction in five years. But the move left intact the large spread between German and American interest rates, and Britain decided on Wednesday to suspend its participation in the monetary system and let the value of its pound be determined by market forces. A day later, Italy dropped out.
For all the criticism of Germany's interest rates, few nations came to the table with clean hands. The United States, for example, faced renewed pressure to cut its $320 billion annual Federal budget deficit, which other nations complain pushes up long-term interest rates around the world.
After the meeting today, Finance Minister Michel Sapin of France said, "The American problem is its budget deficit." He said American officials had said "nothing very precise" about their plans.
As for the United States, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady said, "There was broad recognition that measures to strengthen recovery would also further greater exchange-market stability."
Among the contingency plans being discussed here are further devaluations of some currencies, buying of currencies by central banks to bolsterprop up weak currencies, changes in fiscal policies and even a wholesale change in the structure of Europe's system of fixed exchange rates.
American officials said they wanted today's meeting to give new impetus to international economic cooperation. That was the buzzword of the late 1980's as nations agreed to coordinate interest rates and exchange rates, helping to fuel a period of unusual growth and stability. The golden moment of economic cooperation came in the Plaza Accord of 1985, when James A. Baker 3d, then the Treasury Secretary, now the head of President Bush's re-election campaign, orchestrated an international effort to bring down the dollar from its stratospheric heights.
For the last two years, however, cooperation has largely broken down, with the Group of Seven -- the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan -- adopting vastly different and often conflicting economic policies.
While the Americans and British say Germany's high rates are hurting growth, Helmut Schlesinger, the president of Germany's central bank, has repeatedly argued that high rates are needed to reduce German inflation to 2 percent from its current 3.5 percent rate. Germany's large budget deficit, which has fueled inflation there, is mostly a result of the high costs of German unification. The Government is spending $122 billion this year to help rebuild eastern Germany.
 
Up in Germany, Down in U.S.
 To counter inflationary pressures, the Bundesbank has pushed its most important interest rate to 9.5 percent. At the same time, in Washington, the Federal Reserve Board has adhered to easy-money policies, pushing rates down to 3 percent in the hope of stimulating borrowing and investing and reviving the American economy.
"The Group of Seven has been in total disarray for at least a couple of years," said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a Washington research group.
One concession Germany could be seeking is for the United States to ease its tough stance in the world trade talks in Geneva. The United States has been combatively demanding that the Europeans drastically reduce their subsidies to farmers, an issue that has produced a deadlock in the talks.
The Bundesbank might gain some leeway to cut rates because further devaluations by other nations could be in the offing. When Germany's trading partners devalue their currencies, that helps hold down inflation in Germany because it makes imports cheaper.
A factor behind Germany's large budget deficit is its substantial aid to Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, so Bonn might press its allies to carry more of the load. It might also demand reciprocal deficit-reduction pledges from other big-deficit countries -- the United States, Britain and Italy.
 
Thatcher Backs British Pullout
 Margaret Thatcher, John Major's predecessor as Prime Minister, said at a conference in Washington today that Britain should not re-enter the European Monetary System, and she praised Mr. Major for withdrawing. She argued that the system had a "perverse alchemy" that was strangling growth and was "a grave obstacle to economic progress."
Whatever the results of Sunday's vote in France, several officials predicted that the European Monetary System could be substantially changed.
Finance ministers from the 12 countries of the European Community are scheduled to meet here late Sunday to discuss their next steps.
Some say the Group of Seven might push for a slimmer system that would include just five nations, probably Germany, France, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands.
Countries with high inflation, like Spain and Italy, would not be included, freeing them from the need to raise their rates to keep their currencies from plunging against the mark.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Washington yesterday for talks on the currency crisis were, from left, Alan Greenspan, the chariman of the Federal Reserve; Helmut Schlesinger, the head of Germany's central bank; Theo Waigel, the German Finance Minister, and Nicholas F. Brady, the United States Treasury Secretary. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Before talks began yesterday in Washington, from left, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady conferred with Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve Chairman, and Horst Kohler, state secretary in Germany's Finance Ministry, spoke with his boss, Theo Waigel, the Finance Minister. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. 12)
 
Chart: "A Global Agenda," lists scheduled events and meetings for Saturday, Sudnay, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, dealing with issues relating to European monetary and polticial union. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY FOREIGN EXCHANGE LTD (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; TREATIES CURRENCIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN ALAN GREENSPAN (71%); HORST KOHLER (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



625 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-17
 
TALKS ON CURRENCY CRISIS 
Financial leaders sought a way out of Europe's currency crisis and worked on contingency plans. 1
 
SIGHS AND WHISPERS
If the French vote yes on European union, a collective European sigh is likely, but no loud cheers. 1
 
 The U.S. is formally, but not truly, neutral about the French vote. 12
 
UNSEEN GULF WAR BATTLE
Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf takes aim at the "hawks" in the Bush Administration in a new memoir. 1
 
SOUTH AFRICA'S COMMUNISTS
As South Africa's Communists navigate a new politics, de Klerk is finding the party a useful target. 3
 
PERKS, POWER AND POLICY
Russia's economy is pulled by the executive and pushed by the central bank. It's Parliament's turn. 14
 
A U.N. SLAP TO BELGRADE
The Security Council ruled that Belgrade cannot keep the former Yugoslavia's U.N. seat. 9
 
THE MARCH TO IMPEACHMENT
Brazilians massed in the capital, letting their discontent with the President reach a crescendo. 16
 
South Korea's President has promised to resign from his party. 7
 
A Hungarian leader's charges of sabotage bring a sharp backlash. 8
 
A P.O.W.-M.I.A. official will testify before a Senate Committee. 10
 
Coca diplomacy raises resentment in Bolivia and fear in the U.S. 16
 
The Shining Path weaves a web of isolation around Lima. 17
 
As Canada faces unity vote, leaders draw analogies to France. 15
 
Fischer settles for draw with Spassky in longest game so far. 52
 
National 18-40
 
HOW QUAYLE AVOIDED DRAFT
A re-examination of Vice President Quayle's enlistment in the Indiana National Guard shows a striking pattern of favoritism and raises new questions about the fairness of the enlistment practices of the elite unit that saved Mr. Quayle from the draft. 1
 
CLINTON SAYS 'LOOPHOLES' HELPED
Governor Clinton acknowledged that he might have received special treatment in 1969 from Federal and local officials to avoid the draft. 24
 
FOR, NOT AGAINST, CONGRESS
Of all the changes coming to Congress, none is more certain than an increase of at least 10 blacks and five Hispanic lawmakers. And few of these candidates are expressing the anti-Congress stance so rampant in the nation. 26
 
LIFE AT THE BOTTOM OF AMERICA
The poorest county in America holds little but Pine Ridge Reservation, home of the Oglala branch of the Sioux Indians. It is a despairing place of 16,000 inhabitants ravaged by isolation, disease, political infighting, and good intentions gone bad. 1
 
Honoring the Navajos who were young heroes of World War II. 27
 
NATIONWIDE CANCER TEST
A drug company is sponsoring a nationwide effort to screen more than half a million middle-aged and elderly men for prostate cancer amid heated disagreement over whether the testing will do more harm than good. 1
 
MENTAL SCARS FROM HURRICANE
Mental health experts said that Hurricane Andrew caused thousands of residents to suffer a shock like that of war and that some are taking out their aggressions on those closest to them. 18
 
CHANGE IN THE CATHOLIC ORDERS
A three-year study of Roman Catholic religious orders, long the backbone of the nation's Catholic schools, hospitals and other institutions, concluded that they must undergo "dramatic changes" to survive. 18
 
Pittsburgh Journal: A new bakery yields bread and city pride. 18
 
A startling revelation in the memoir of a former Philadelphia mayor. 19
 
Officials called for new pollution controls in the Northeast. 31
 
Students at small colleges drink more, a study found. 33
 
In a tangled case, a surrogate mother sues. 36
 
Metro 41-56
 
ON EDGE AT THE U.N.
The United Nations General Assembly opened its 47th session amid assurances to staff that it was committed to remaining in its home on the East River. But its corridors were filled with talk of cuts, reorganization and lost jobs. 41
 
BLOW FOR THE MIDDLE CLASS
New Jersey's unemployment rate among white-collar workers is lower than in both New York and Connecticut. But many who did not expect to have to pinch pennies at this point in their lives find that they are also affected by the recession.41
 
FORT GREENE'S NOTORIETY
Essence magazine called it "The Happening 'Hood." And although comparisons to the Harlem Renaissance tend to come from rhapsodic outsiders, there is a sense that something is happening in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Fort Greene. 41
 
RACE, CRIME AND POLITICS
Race and crime, the two totemic issues that defined New York City's last mayoral campaign, have re-emerged to shape the next one. 43
 
RAINING CINDER BLOCKS
A Yale Law student and an investment banker were charged with attempted murder after they rained cinder blocks from a condominium on the Upper East Side onto two policeofficers. 45
 
Three officers hurt in East Harlem shooting. 43
 
Alfonse M. D'Amato's 1992 strategy includes a make-over. 50
 
Robert Abrams goes for money and a ride on the Democratic wave. 50
 
Obituaries 54-55
Gladwin Hill, Times reporter who led environmental coverage. 55

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); SHINING PATH (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); SHINING PATH (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HUNGARY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CANCER (85%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); DESERT STORM (71%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (68%); MENTAL HEALTH (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); PROSTATE DISEASE (64%); MEN'S HEALTH (63%); PROSTATE CANCER (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



626 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 2108 words

HEADLINE: Life at the Bottom -- America's Poorest County/A special report.;
Sad Distinction for the Sioux: Homeland Is No. 1 in Poverty

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PINE RIDGE, S.D.

 BODY:
The Pine Ridge Reservation is the home of the Oglala branch of the Sioux Indians, descendants of the warrior heroes Crazy Horse and Red Cloud. It is as poor as America gets.
It spreads across nearly two million acres of butte-broken plains and listless creeks, and the oyster-gray cliffs and impervious clay floor of the Badlands. It is a mean and despairing place of 16,000 inhabitants ravaged by isolation, disease, political infighting, and good intentions gone bad. Fewer than 3 in 10 of the adults have jobs, and nearly all the jobs are in government agencies. 
 Most reservations are poor, but this one keeps sinking. The Census Bureau reports that in Shannon County, which covers most of the reservation, 63.1 percent of all residents lived in poverty in 1989 -- the highest rate of the nation's 3,141 counties, up from 44.7 percent (ninth poorest) a decade earlier. By comparison, the national poverty rate was 14.2 percent in 1991.
 
Different Kind of Poverty
 "It's a different kind of poverty here, a more bitter type," said the Rev. Joseph Daniel Sheehan, a Jesuit priest, as he stood outside his little Sacred Heart Catholic Church on a litter-blown knoll overlooking Wounded Knee, site of the United States 7th Cavalry's slaughter of Chief Big Foot and 300 Sioux men, women and children on Dec. 29, 1890.
Father Sheehan once served in India; there, he said, the attitude was, "we're all in this together." Here, he went on, "they feel that anything that comes to them is what's left over. They get angry at one another. It's a kind of poverty that destroys the family. I don't know what I would be if I were an Indian. I think I would be an alcoholic."
In part, the poverty here arises from the circumstances unique to Indian tribes -- their consignment to the remote and resource-poor dregs of the old frontier and the clash of their own values with a dominant white culture. All this is compounded by the arid climate and deep isolation of the Pine Ridge Reservation.
Among the Sioux, generosity is the holiest virtue, and stinginess and greed are reviled. People share their bounty with family and friends, rather than save to build a better house or start a business. In a community with wealth to spread around, everyone wins. Here everyone loses.
The conditions here also show influences that drag people down anywhere: bad nutrition, bad personal habits, high unemployment, racial discrimination, the two-decade-long erosion of American wages and Federal welfare programs that foster dependence.
"We're a fifth- going-on-sixth-generation welfare state," said Leo Vocu, a leader of the tribe. "We have, over these generations, developed some very bad habits."
But in the end, everything comes down to money. "There just ain't any money there," said James G. Abourezk, a former Democratic Senator from South Dakota who practices law in Rapid City and specializes in Indian affairs. "No industry. No jobs. Not much of anything."
 
The People
Families Fall Apart Under the Strain
 People here routinely tell of economic stresses that match the worst of urban ghettos. Alfred Leftwich, 25 years old, married, father of three small children, is tall, agile and vigorous, a former basketball star at Pine Ridge High School.
He prepared for a career, going to college for two years to learn coaching and elementary school teaching and, not finding a job, to vocational school to learn carpentry. He has had two menial jobs off the reservation with the forest service, each lasting eight months, but they were temporary, and he has been unemployed for 18 months.
"Welfare is something I have to do," Mr. Leftwich said. "It's humiliating. I can work. I have all kinds of skills. I have two perfectly good hands." He is five months behind on his $150 monthly mortgage payments on his home, a trailer, and facing foreclosure. The power company has turned off the electricity. The pipes froze last winter and he has not been able to get them fixed. Without toilets or an outhouse, he said, "we just go to the creek."
Carmen Yellow Horse, 34, lived off the reservation, in Rapid City, for 12 years. "That's where the jobs were," she said. In February she returned with her two young daughters to the reservation hamlet of Red Shirt in the Badlands to live with her grandmother, who raised her and needed help. Recently she drove the 70 miles to Pine Ridge to look for a job.
She filled out an application for the only one for which she felt remotely qualified, as a $4.25-an-hour part-time secretary at a Federal Government welfare office. If she gets the job, the gasoline to commute in her 16-year-old Plymouth will cost about $9 a day, more than she would earn for two hours' work.
The poverty here shatters families. Mothers, not just fathers, leave spouses and children behind to try to make a living somewhere else. Many return, complaining of job discrimination and a paucity of jobs and become alcoholics. Antoinette Wince will be among the next to try to break away.
Ms. Wince is 24, the single mother of a 7-year-old girl, a $5.50-an-hour, full-time supervisor at Big Bat's, a convenience store in Pine Ridge, and a part-time student at Oglala Lakota College, near the reservation village of Kyle.
"My major's computer science," she said. "The college will find a place for me off the reservation to do an internship. I want to leave. It's too depressing here." She said she had given her mother, a teacher, legal custody of her daughter, Stefanie -- at her mother's insistence.
"My mom wants me to leave," she said. "She thinks there's nothing here for me. My mom always tells us: 'Be responsible. You're never going to make it in the white man's world if you can't behave like him. Go to work on time. Do your job.' "
 
The Village
Nameless Streets Where Poverty Kills
 Pine Ridge, the reservation's principal settlement, is a prototype of rural poverty, the home of 5,000 people, nearly all Sioux. It is disheveled, potholed and dusty. None of the 15 miles of roads have names, and a third are unpaved.
There is no train, bus, bank, theater, clothing store, drug store, barber shop, restaurant, place to get a car fixed or home delivery of mail. A car is the only way to get around, yet a fifth of all Shannon County households don't have one. With the sole exception of Big Bat's, the new and well-lighted 24-hour store run by Bat and Pat Pourier, the few shops are fortresses against burglary, with boards or heavy metal mesh covering their windows. The sign in front of the Gospel Fellowship church in town offers "Our Only Hope Services."
In the small, white-owned Sioux Nation supermarket, a cooler displays see-through boxes of something chopped up and pink for $1.28 a pound. The label says "meat." The State Data Center at the University of South Dakota Vermillion reports that per-capita in Shannon County fell 23 percent in the 1980's, to $3,417, after adjusting for inflation.
Here, poverty kills. The Indian Health Service says that for every 1,000 children born on the reservation in the late 1980's, 29 died in infancy, almost three times the national average. Death from heart disease, pneumonia, influenza and suicide was twice the national rate; from homicide, more than three times the national rate; from adult diabetes, four times; from alcoholism, 10 times. Alcoholism is showing up among newborn children, victims of fetal alcohol syndrome.
Another measure of poverty is bad and critically scarce housing. "We've got 2,000 families on our waiting list, and those are the ones who haven't given up waiting," said Carmel Richards, finance officer of the tribal housing authority that provides subsidized housing, much of it rent free. As a result, she said, "We see a lot of extended families in one unit. We've come across houses where there's 16 people in three bedrooms."
 
The Prospects
How Some Make It Against the Odds
 Getting things done is difficult in part because the tribal leadership keeps changing. Tribal leaders freely acknowledge that many use their offices to put family and friends in jobs. Then other factions, having been locked out of jobs, run for office and do the same for their people. The tribe also presides over a legal system that favors individuals over businesses, discouraging investors from opening factories and providing jobs.
For a century the Federal Government wielded immense influence over the affairs of the reservation, primarily through the Bureau of Indian Affairs. In recent years it has turned over political authority to the tribe, though it does award contracts and loans to develop things like schools, hospitals and businesses. But Federal aid has not kept pace with inflation, and in the context of the reservation's poverty its contribution is minuscule.
Still, conditions at Pine Ridge could be worse. Welfare programs do provide a crutch, especially for large families. An underground cash economy of poachers, burglars, bootleggers and artisans who make quilts and beaded jewelry is another crutch.
Some people also see hope for a stronger economy. They say alcoholism, the bane and refuge of the permanently unemployed, seems to be abating. Schools are improving, too. Over 20 years, as the tribe has taken over the schools from the churches and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, tribal leaders have placed their top priority on education, and in some of the decrepit-looking villages the schools are the only large and well-kept buildings to be seen.
More young people are finishing high school and going to college than ever, and they are qualifying for the well-paid nursing, teaching and other professional jobs on the reservation that have been going to non-Indians.
John Yellow Bird Steele, chairman of the Oglala Sioux since February, is planning to build up to three gambling casinos, an enterprise that has salvaged some other reservations. Uncommonly for a member of a tribe that has favored a quasi-socialist economy based on tribe-owned business, he preaches free enterprise. "We've got to view economic development for what it is," he said. "It's the private entrepreneur who's going to do it."
But other tribal leaders have had new ideas, too, and are often thrown out of office for espousing them. Tribal chairmen are elected every two years, and none has been re-elected since the mid-1970's. One small faction here, members of the radical American Indian Movement, says gambling will drive Indians deeper into alcoholism and debt. "That's genocide," said Gary Rowland, head of the Wounded Knee chapter of A.I.M.
With or without gambling, there are people who make it even against considerable odds. Bat Pourier, a 40-year-old full-blooded Oglala Sioux, was 14 when his father died. He went to South Dakota State University to play football, injured a knee, dropped out and started drinking. He met Pat, daughter of a white farmer. "We became drinking buddies," Ms. Pourier said.
Back on the reservation, still drinking, Mr. Pourier fell behind in payments on his pickup truck. "I started being honest with everybody," he said. He approached Stockmens Bank for an $11,000 loan so he could keep the truck. "I'm an alcoholic, but I'm going straight," he told the president of the bank. He got the loan.
After three years of sobriety, he was offered a job at the bank. He became a lending officer and stayed six years. While at the bank, he and Ms. Pourier, by then sober and a postmistress on the reservation, made plans to open a convenience store.
They got $1.2 million in loans and a $100,000 grant from the Bureau of Indian Affairs. It took two years to break ground. "The white business owners did not want competition," Mr. Pourier said. "So they contested our lease on the land. We went to court 13 times."
Open two years now, the store is a hive of activity all day. It has 30 employees, all Indian. The Pouriers aggressively tackled a problem that has defeated other Indian-owned businesses on the reservation: A cultural clash over the concept of time. In the Lakota language there is no word for time and few people on the reservation even wear wristwatches. "Late once, you get a written reprimand," Ms. Pourier said. "Late again and you're fired."
Still, the Pouriers have also remained loyal to Sioux traditions. They are sharing the business, giving equal stakes in it to a brother of Mr. Pourier, an adopted brother and a nephew.
"We have people in Washington telling us what funding we need, what our problems are, how to solve them," Mr. Pourier said. "Damn it, let us solve them. We can keep our values and live in a dual culture."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carmen Yellow Horse, center, lived in Rapid City, S.D., for 12 years because "that's where the jobs were," she said. In February, she moved with her daughters back to the reservation hamlet of Red Shirt to live with her grandmother, Delphine Yellow Horse, left, who needed her help; Antoinette Wince, who is 24 and the single mother of a 7-year-old daughter, Stefanie, works full time as the supervisor of a convenience store in addition to attending college as a part-time student. (Photographs by Michael Lewis for The New York Times) (pg. 32)
 
Map of South Dakota, indicating Pine Ridge Reservation. (pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); 

CITY: RAPID CITY, SD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH DAKOTA; PINE RIDGE INDIAN RESERVATION (SD) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); RAPID CITY, SD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; INCOME; SIOUX INDIANS INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); EROSION (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); POVERTY RATES (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); CENSUS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



627 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Senate Race May Focus On Negative Images

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Here's a pop-culture quiz: Which image carries the most negative baggage in 1992 recession-era politics -- the career politician entrenched in the hidebound ways of Washington, or the career businessman enriched by the excesses of 1980's Wall Street?
Both images are to some degree caricatures. But if Connecticut's United States Senate race becomes as mean-spirited as the early signs indicate, voters in November could have just such a choice presented to them. 
 The contest, between Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat seeking his third six-year term, and Brook Johnson, a Republican business executive from Greenwich making his first run for office, will almost certainly present Mr. Dodd's toughest challenge since he was elected to the Senate in 1980, if only because of the amount of money invested in it.
In Mr. Dodd's last race, in 1986, his Republican challenger, Roger W. Eddy, raised and spent $467,000, compared with $2.2 million for the Dodd campaign. Mr. Eddy received 35 percent of the vote, to 65 percent for Mr. Dodd.
 
A Level Field This Time?
 This time around, the financial playing field will be even, and could perhaps even tip toward the challenger. Mr. Johnson, a textile executive who sold and bought back his company during the 1980's in a series of leveraged buyouts, has already spent more than $1 million, mostly his own money. Last Tuesday he won a primary election against Christopher Burnham, a State Representative from Stamford.
Mr. Johnson's campaign will cost at least another $1 million between now and Nov. 3, said a spokesman, Mark Rivers. National Republican party leaders also pledged this week to send advisers and resources to help Mr. Johnson in the campaign, as one of about a dozen selected races around the nation.
Political experts in both parties say that forces beyond the wallet are also at work that could fuel a nasty streak in the campaigns of both candidates -- or, in a gentler interpretation, perhaps provide a genuinely illuminating debate about what sorts of skills people value in their leaders and what cultural symbols resonate most deeply with voters.
 
Dodd Still Popular
 One of Mr. Johnson's main problems is that Mr. Dodd is still a popular politician in Connecticut, even among Republicans (in a poll conducted by the University of Connecticut before Tuesday's Republican primary, 42 percent of the Republican respondents gave him a "favorable" rating). That means Mr. Johnson will have to redefine Mr. Dodd's image to bring the race within reach.
Mr. Dodd will most likely face similar pressure to hit hard, experts say. Leaving Mr. Johnson unchallenged would allow him -- as a political blank slate with no public record -- to present an image that seems perfect. Republican leaders said this week that, even in an optimistic estimate, at least a third of voters still do not recognize Mr. Johnson's name.
Mr. Dodd hinted at his strategy on Tuesday night, with a congratulatory statement to the Republicans saying he agreed with Mr. Johnson's refrain about the need for change in Washington. Without mentioning names, Mr. Dodd went on to specify.
"This election is about change, all right," Mr. Dodd said. "Changing the status quo where the rich got richer during the go-go 1980's, while the middle class has been whittled away."
 
Theme of Disparity
 Of course, Democrats from Gov. Bill Clinton on down are saying much the same thing this year. But Mr. Dodd, as a liberal with solid labor backing, may hope to use the theme of economic disparity to great effect in a state reeling from the effects of the recession, a collapse in housing prices and a bank-lending crisis that economists say has stifled business growth.
Republicans also lost no time is gearing up for a few rounds of Dodd-bashing. On the day after the primary, the state Republican Party chairman, Richard Foley, suggested to reporters that Mr. Dodd did not tell the truth and had "bamboozled" voters for years.
"Chris Dodd has a pretty face and a very ugly record," Mr. Foley said.
But clearly, Mr. Johnson has a record too. If an incumbent's public voting record is fair game in discussing Mr. Dodd's Senate career, how far can Mr. Dodd's forces go in investigating Mr. Johnson's activities in private business without seeming to invade his privacy?
 
Like New Jersey in 1990?
 And will the much-ballyhooed anger in the voting public rebound to Mr. Johnson's benefit? Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, the chairman of the Republican National Senatorial Committee, said this week that Connecticut in 1992 was like New Jersey in 1990.
People are still angry about last year's imposition of a state income tax, Mr. Gramm said, and will take it out this year against Mr. Dodd, just as New Jersey voters did against Senator Bill Bradley. Mr. Bradley, considered a shoo-in for re-election, barely won against a poorly financed and little known Republican opponent, Christine Todd Whitman.
Mr. Gramm conceded this week that the national organization had dropped the ball by not giving Ms. Whitman enough support. It would not happen again, he said.
"They had a person who had no financing and was not targeted by the Senatorial Committee," he said of Ms. Whitman. "We believe that Connecticut represents a real opportunity for us."
But the issue of voter anger over taxes may not be quite as clear-cut in Connecticut. Mr. Johnson has said he is for repealing the income tax, while Mr. Dodd has said it should be revised to lower the rate for middle-income earners.
Even if voters are still angry, the focus of their anger is difficult to assess. In the primary election races on Tuesday for the State Legislature, for example, there were 17 races in which one candidate supported repealing the tax and the other did not. Only three of those pro-repeal candidates won.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brook Johnson, above, a Republican business executive from Greenwich making his first run for office (Steve Miller for The New York Times), is opposing Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat seeking a third term, in the Senate race in Connecticut. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN NATIONAL SENATORIAL COMMITTEE (78%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN NATIONAL SENATORIAL COMMITTEE (78%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (65%); 

PERSON: DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); JOHNSON, BROOK CHRISTOPHER DODD (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



628 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: EUROPE IN TURMOIL;
Aware of Its Own Limits, U.S. Favors Unity Treaty

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
While the Bush Administration has carefully avoided commenting on the French vote on European unity so as not be accused of meddling, Administration officials leave little doubt that they hope the French will vote yes and endorse the Maastricht treaty.
The simple reason, American officials say, is that the United States has much more to fear from European fragmentation and resurgent nationalism than it does from European consolidation. 
 "We are not taking a position on the French vote," said the White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater. "That is an internal affair. But we do feel, and said so at the time, that the Maastricht treaty and European unity was something that was beneficial."
 
Ambivalence in Washington
 Clearly there is ambivalence in Washington about European integration. At one moment officials will point out that a tightly unified Europe would be a formidable economic competitor and a much more potent political force whose interests and opinions would have to be taken into account more than ever before. Something that throws a wrench into those unification plans would not necessarily send Washington into mourning.
There is even a bit of quiet glee in watching the French, who are constantly competing with Washington for regional influence, emerge as the possible agents for the unraveling of European unity.
But these sentiments tend to be overridden by a more powerful instinct: that if French voters reject the Maastricht treaty and the plans for unification unravel, it will damage American economic and strategic interests in the long run. The stakes, American officials say, include gains in international trade talks and Europe's ability to act coherently in the face of outbreaks of nationalist violence like the fighting in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
"Our policy has been fairly consistent in support of European integration ever since the Marshall Plan, but we have tended to waver every time it gets close to realization, out of a fear that once they do get unified they will be more competitors than partners," said Stephen F. Szabo, an expert on Germany at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. "But the fact is our longer-term interests are more compatible with a unified Europe.
 
Memory of Wars
 "Several times in this century we have been drawn into Europe as a result of the revival of nationalism and inter-European rivalries," he added. "So it is very much in our broader interest to have some sort of stable post-nationalist structure in place there."
Today Mr. Bush invited financial leaders to meet with him at the White House on Sunday, and aides said he would talk to them about the importance of currency stability and the world trade talks in Geneva.
Still, the United States, with its economic constraints, cannot indefinitely play the stabilizing, balancing role that it has had in Europe since 1945. And no single European nation, including Germany, can substitute for the United States as a neutral balancing power. Only some sort of pan-European structure can do that.
In broader strategic terms, officials say, the United States is gradually withdrawing from responsibilities around the world now that the cold war is over, and, at a time when it wants to do less -- less peacekeeping, less peacemaking -- it needs a cohesive, resolute Europe to do more.
Getting the European Community to act with dispatch and generosity during the Persian Gulf War and in the crisis in the Balkans has been difficult enough, American officials say.
"If you think the Europeans were well orchestrated today when it came to dealing with the crisis in Bosnia," said one senior Administration official, "imagine what they will be like if Maastricht explodes and they go in 10 different directions?"
 
More Yugoslavias?
 There may well be more Yugoslavias down the road, which is why Americans should have no doubt about where their interests lie in the French vote, said Senator Joseph R. Biden, the Delaware Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on Europe.
"In the cold war the United States found it convenient to lead an alliance of lessors," Mr. Biden said in a statement. "But today we can achieve none of our major global objectives -- building new institutions of collective security, maintaining open markets, promoting democracy, preventing weapons proliferation or preserving the global environment -- without Europe as a responsible, co-equal partner."
There is also an economic rationale for supporting European economic integration, American officials and analysts say, provided that it evolves in an open, non-protectionist form.
"A self-confident Western Europe is important to continue to act as an economic magnet and example for the emerging democracies of Eastern Europe, particularly Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia," said Michael Mandelbaum, a European affairs expert at Johns Hopkins and a foreign policy adviser to the Clinton campaign.
 
Concern for Free Trade
 American officials say they are equally concerned about the impact that the unraveling of the Maastricht treaty would have on negotiations for a new international trade accord known as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT.
The six-year-old negotiations, which involve 108 nations, are aimed at adopting rules to expand free-trade rules and reduce tariffs. Progress has been stalled because of a dispute between the United States and the European Community, particularly France, over export subsidies to farmers.
If the Europeans felt too vulnerable before the French vote to make concessions on agriculture in the GATT talks, said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International, "they are going to be even more insecure if Maastricht goes down."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); GERMANY (88%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); GERMANY (88%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; REFERENDUMS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); REFERENDUMS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); CURRENCIES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (62%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



629 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1553 words

HEADLINE: Economic Compromise Is in the Air as Russian Legislators Head to Moscow

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 19

 BODY:
With the Russian Government weakened and the economy slipping out of control, an important session of the legislature opens next week amid signs that President Boris N. Yeltsin is seeking further compromise with forces opposed to Western-style economic reform.
This summer the Russian economy has borne the brunt of an unresolved political and constitutional struggle over the money supply. 
 The executive branch, under Acting Prime Minister Yegor T. Gaidar, has been trying to limit the granting of new credits to former Soviet industrial enterprises so it can keep inflation down and encourage structural changes in the the economy. But the central bank, which is responsible to the legislature, has opened the credit spigot wide in the hope of reviving production and avoiding high levels of unemployment.
The clash, which the central bank and its Acting Director, Viktor V. Gerashchenko, have lately been winning, is in essence about the size of the state's role in controlling the economy. In even broader terms, it is a deeply political struggle about the future direction of Russia. But in narrower terms, as always here, it is an intensely personal struggle for power and perquisites.
 
The Dacha and Other Perks
 "Russian politicians always get their priorities mixed up," a senior Western diplomat said. "They're so involved in their power struggles, which have a lot to do with access to the dacha, the car, trips abroad and access to hard currency, that they really don't see that the economy is on the verge of collapse."
For Mr. Gaidar and his team of Western-oriented ministers, this is a moment of some despair. Mr. Gerashchenko, who took over the central bank in mid-July, issued more than trillion rubles, or some $5 billion, in credit in July and August alone. He did so, Mr. Gaidar's aides say, without consulting the executive branch, and one result will be an inflation rate close to 30 percent this month. They see the possibility of hyperinflation, or a 50 percent monthly rate, in October or November.
Mr. Gerashchenko's policies have also led Mr. Gaidar to acknowledge publicly that the Russian Government cannot meet the financial targets that it negotiated earlier this year with the International Monetary Fund. Russia had originally agreed to aim for a domestically financed budget deficit of 5 percent of gross national product and a monthly inflation rate in single digits by the end of the year.
 
I.M.F. Is Nervous
 Mr. Gaidar has only admitted what everyone already knew. But, despite the air of calm at briefings by I.M.F. officials during the annual meeting of the fund and the World Bank in Washington this week, senior Western diplomats here say that fund officials are "extremely nervous" about the current direction of the Russian economy.
A senior adviser to Mr. Gaidar, Sergei A. Vasilyev, director of the Government Working Center for Economic Reform, went so far as to accuse Mr. Gerashchenko and his allies of "working to discredit the Government and the entire course of the reforms." Some diplomats agree, suggesting that Mr. Gerashchenko is aware of the inflationary implications of his policies and hopes to sink Mr. Gaidar.
But the arguments advanced by Mr. Gerashchenko and powerful industrial lobbyists like Arkady I. Volsky is also about the need for a stronger state hand in the managing of economic reform and a slower transition toward a limited market.
Politically, that is a popular stance for a people accustomed to strong leadership and confused by the rapid economic changes in their lives. It is also a stance that is popular among politicians and bureaucrats, well represented in the Congress, who fear the loss of ties to the institutions and power structures of the old regime.
They also fear the impact of privatization. On Oct. 1, the Government will distribute vouchers worth 10,000 rubles, or $50, to each Russian citizen as his share of state-owned property to invest or sell. No one knows whether the program will be a success, but it will help establish a new political context.
If it is successful, Mr. Yeltsin can tell Russians, "You're the owners now, and Congress stands in the way." If it is a failure, it may strengthen the opposition.
"It will inject a new reality," a Western diplomat said, "and people will be talking about it."
 
Apocalypse Unlikely
 So the issues at stake are significant, even fundamental. But the legislative session, which opens on Tuesday with the smaller Supreme Soviet and may run for two months, including the first session since April of the larger Congress of People's Deputies, may not provide the requisite drama or resolution.
Despite a fondness for apocalyptic language, Russia is also the country of the anticlimax and the messy compromise, where predictions of riots, hunger and chaos rarely quite seem to materialize. Politicians, like their constituents, tend to be patient and resourceful, with a highly developed sense of survival.
Already, Mr. Yeltsin and the speaker of the Russian Parliament, Ruslan I. Khasbulatov, have made a public show of their desire for compromise. Mr. Khasbulatov, who was elected from the region of Chechnya, does not want new elections, and Mr. Yeltsin recently promised legislators they could serve for the rest of their five-year terms, through March 1995.
Mr. Yeltsin has also called for a close working relationship with the legislature, a gesture that gives Speaker Khasbulatov, who is feuding with his more liberal deputy, Sergei A. Filatov, more respect. Mr. Yeltsin's base, the badly organized democrats, represent only about a third of the parliament, and they have been calling for the ouster of Mr. Khasbulatov.
Another third of the parliament is made up of hard-line conservatives, ex-Communists who want Mr. Gaidar out and someone like Mr. Volsky or the current Vice President, Aleksandr V. Rutskoi, in. Another third, known as "the marsh in the middle," includes most of Mr. Volsky's followers and tends to lean toward the conservatives.
But the opposition to the Government is incoherent and lacks a political standard bearer. Nor does it have a clear alternative plan in a country where the old command instruments are damaged or gone.
Nonetheless, the opposition objects to the current direction of Western-style, I.M.F.-sanctioned reform, as diluted as it now is, and Mr. Yeltsin needs to give those lawmakers some satisfaction. That may come in new appointments to the Government from the managerial classes, in addition to the three industrialists grafted clumsily onto the Gaidar team in early June.
Or it may come in the form of a more formal acknowledgement of the legislature's powers of oversight, or a more expensive ruble rate for foreign investment in Russia, or an explicit policy of a more gradual transition to the market, with even more state involvement and control.
 
What Yeltsin May Seek
 But it will hardly be a ringing endorsement of the strict monetary policy, fiscal discipline and untrammeled market that are endorsed by the I.M.F. and that Mr. Gaidar tried to introduce in the first half of the year.
In return, Mr. Yeltsin wants a number of things: first, a moratorium on an early challenge to Mr. Gaidar and the Government, including an extension of the President's extraordinary powers to appoint ministers without parliamentary confirmation and to rule by decree.
Second, he would seek the passage of a law on government, to be included in a new constitution, that would allow a strong presidential system. The legislature would have the right under such a law to confirm the President's choice of Prime Minister and lesser officials, but not the rest of the Cabinet or key security officials. Third, at Mr. Gaidar's urging, Mr. Yeltsin would want the central bank subordinated to the President, or at the very least to operate independently of lawmakers.
There is room for compromise and backroom dealing on all of these issues, however, and many diplomats believe the Gaidar Government will survive the congress relatively intact. But it is always possible that both Mr. Gerashchenko and Mr. Gaidar will find themselves serving as trade bait as Mr. Yeltsin and the loose conservative majority in Parliament try to make a deal.
 
Less Support for Yeltsin
 All the main characters have less influence now than they did in April. Mr. Khasbulatov may be unable to carry the legislature with him; Mr. Volsky's own base of state enterprise and farm managers is more interested in rapid reform than he is; and Mr. Yeltsin's own position is not what it was.
"Yeltsin knows his finest hours are over," a senior Western diplomat said. "They occurred when he climbed up on the tank to fight the August coup and when he went to Washington this summer. He'll never be that popular again." That is why Mr. Yeltsin has been picking his battles more carefully, canceling an ill-conceived visit to Japan and trying to come to an arrangement with Mr. Khasbulatov, the diplomat said.
For Western Governments and for the International Monetary Fund, which is their agent, there is simply no alternative to Mr. Yeltsin, who will maneuver as he must. "Whenever he's had to choose, he's chosen the democratic path," the diplomat said. "The alternatives are too awful to contemplate."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of the Russian leaders who are involved in the struggle over the size of the state's role in controlling the Russian economy are, from left, Yegor T. Gaidar, the Acting Prime Minister (Associated Press), Viktor V. Gerashchenko, the acting Director of the Central Bank (Associated Press), and Arkady I. Volsky, an industrial lobbyist. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: F IS (80%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TRENDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



630 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Congressional Races;
Minority Candidates See Congress as Useful Tool

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Of all the changes coming to Congress, none is more certain than an increase of at least 10 blacks and five Hispanic lawmakers. And these candidates, intent on helping neglected constituencies, conspicuously contradict the anti-government spirit of this year's Congressional elections.
Many candidates this year campaign with a sense that Congress itself is one of the nation's most serious problems, arguing over term limits, committee procedures and staff levels. But the new minority candidates treat getting to Congress as a chance to bring money and programs to constituents who previously had to compete with better-off whites for their lawmakers' attention. 
 Their presence will not make it instantly easier to squeeze money out of tight Federal budgets, or to overcome arguments for keeping military spending near current levels. But their collective savvy and experience are sure to invigorate the forces in Congress who want to make more of an effort to solve domestic social problems.
Eva M. Clayton of Warrenton, N.C., wants to promote rural economic development. Mel Reynolds of Chicago wants to combat mortgage discrimination by banks. Frank Tejeda of San Antonio wants better services for veterans. Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Miami calls post-hurricane reconstruction his first priority.
They are among 15 prospective minority lawmakers who face insignificant opposition or are running unopposed in the November elections. Their candidacies guarantee at least a 40 percent increase in minority membership in Congress, above the current totals of 25 blacks and 10 Hispanic voting members of the House.
The increase will be still larger if candidates with real opposition prevail, like Carol Mosely Braun, a black Senate candidate in Illinois, or Anita Perez Ferguson, an Hispanic House candidate in California. There could easily be 39 black and 17 Hispanic members of the next Congress.
 
'Major Power Shift'
 The impact could be dramatic. Representative John Conyers Jr., the Michigan Democrat who is the senior black in Congress, said that combined with the retirements of conservatives, the influx of new minority members could amount to "a major power shift in Congress."
Almost all the new minority lawmakers will be Democrats, and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the majority leader, said he had been impressed by all of them he had met. "Many of them have held high public offices in their communities, have been deeply involved in building their communities," he said.
He would not predict just how their influence would be felt, but said the House would benefit simply by having its racial makeup "better represent the American people."
The House would have to have 52 black members before their percentage matched blacks' 12 percent share of the nation's population. Still, the increase is dramatic. During Reconstruction, the number of blacks in Congress who served at any one time peaked at eight. Those numbers dwindled to zero when George Henry White of North Carolina retired in 1901. Afterward, no blacks served in Congress until Oscar De Priest of Illinois took his seat in 1929. It then took 40 more years for the total to reach 10, in 1969, and it was 1983 before there were 20 blacks.
Many of the 1993 class of minority Representatives will come here as a result of redistricting plans, dictated by the 1982 amendments to the Voting Rights Act. The amendments are aimed at maximizing minority representation.
Economic, rather than clearly racial, concerns have dominated their campaigns. Even so, when primary contests pitted black or Hispanic candidates against whites, votes often followed racial lines. But the general election messages focus heavily on the economic needs of their districts.
Mrs. Clayton, a county commissioner for 10 years, says investing in roads, communication systems and education can help the rural economy. Training is important, she told a barbecue supper in Warsaw, N.C., last week, so that prospective employers will not "think of unskilled, low wage jobs" when they think of eastern North Carolina.
Another prospective newcomer, Gloria Roybal-Allard, wants to focus on domestic violence, sexual assault and environmental concerns, issues she has specialized in during five years of representing downtown Los Angeles in the California Assembly.
Louis Gutierrez, whose Chicago district is shaped like a pair of earmuffs, also talks about investing in roads and education but defines it in terms of community policing, better schools and expanded day-care centers. He talks of combating drug problems both in his district and with military force on the country's borders.
Another North Carolinian, Melvin Watt, assails the military budget, pointing out how much more could be done in drug treatment, Head Start programs or college grants by cutting production of B-2 bombers, at $2 billion apiece.
A former state Senator, Mr. Watt has a district that includes black neighborhoods strung along Interstate 85 from Durham to Charlotte. But he argues that even if its map looks funny, the district has common urban problems that will make it easier to represent than a traditional district that combines central cities and suburbs.
 
Some Defeated Incumbents
 Mr. Diaz-Balart, the only Republican among the certain or all but certain new members, hopes to get beyond post-hurricane reconstruction to changes in tax laws that would provide incentives for investment -- a staple of House Republican arguments all year.
While most of the new members will come from new districts, some are succeeding retiring incumbents, and others defeated sitting members in primaries. Mr. Reynolds, a Chicago college professor, defeated Representative Gus Savage. Bobby Rush, a one-time Black Panther, defeated Representative Charles A. Hayes in another Chicago contest.
Besides fighting mortgage discrimination, Mr. Reynolds said he wanted to pursue a larger Federal role in education. A Rhodes Scholar, he said, "Minorities in this country, if they are to have any chance to be free, have to get an education."
Mr. Rush, a Chicago alderman since 1983 and a ward committeeman since 1984, has an agenda that includes creating more jobs, fighting crime, and making health care and housing more affordable. Right now, he complains, "The Federal Government is not engaged in a meaningful way in the day-to-day lives of the people residing in my district."
If there is one national issue that most of the new minority lawmakers bring up consistently, it is the need to improve the nation's health care. Mrs. Clayton called it a "national tragedy that we as an industrialized country do not have adequate health care." She said that she did not have a particular solution that she was committed to, but that changing the insurance industry would not be enough.
Most of the prospective new members are already angling for committee assignments, and they are asking for more than freshmen usually get -- seats on the influential Committees on Ways and Means, Appropriations, and Energy and Commerce.
Mr. Reynolds spoke for their hopes when he said, "All bets are off about what a freshman can and cannot do." Mr. Gephardt agreed that it was likely that those powerful committees that have excluded new members in the past would have to include some in a year when a quarter of the House may be new to Washington.
While many candidates this year are promising sudden change in the House, the prospective minority lawmakers talk more about a long haul. Mr. Watt said: "I'm not into making things happen overnight. I don't mind waiting for a while."
Neither the minority candidates nor their constituents have been attracted to the term-limits movement. Mr. Tejeda said rather than being turned off by Congress, his prospective constituents thought Congress would now be closer to them because they now have a district that they consider their own.
Most of the prospective minority lawmakers are seriously involved in the Presidential race, too. Except for Mr. Diaz-Balart, they are working for Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, the Democratic Presidential nominee.
Mr. Rush, schooled in Chicago politics, offers one reason for his efforts to help Mr. Clinton. He said, "I would like to be able to have access to the President of the United States, to pick up the phone and ask him for consideration of matters that affect my Congressional district."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eva M. Clayton, left, of Warrenton, N.C. (John Booz for The New York Times), and Bobby Rush, a one-time Black Panther from Chicago, are two minority House candidates who face little or no opposition in the November elections. New minority members of Congress are expected to have an impact on domestic issues. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times); Lincoln Diaz-Balart of Miami says he will make reconstruction from the hurricane his priority. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (87%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); BLACKS (IN US); ELECTIONS; FORECASTS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BUDGETS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); TERM LIMITS (71%); FAIR LENDING (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); POPULATION SIZE (70%); VETERANS (69%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (53%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART (73%); BOBBY L RUSH (58%); JOHN CONYERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



631 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: EX-MAYOR WRITES OF A DEATH PLOT

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Former Mayor W. Wilson Goode, the city's first black mayor, has written a political memoir containing the revelation that he feared that racist Philadelphia police officers were planning to kill him during the fiery confrontation between the police and the radical group Move in 1985.
Mr. Goode says he never alerted his security guards or any other law-enforcement officials but simply stayed home, out of harm's way. 
 Mr. Goode was criticized by the commission that investigated the incident for not being on the scene and for allowing the operation to be run by officials he said he did not trust.
In his book, Mr. Goode shrugs off the whole thing, much the way he ascribes the city's two-year-old financial crisis to forces and people beyond his control. He said in an interview on Thursday that he saw no purpose in making the assassination attempt a major issue at the time, "and I didn't make it a major issue in my book." The former Mayor, who now teaches at Eastern College in suburban St. Davids, completed his second consecutive four-year term in December and was prohibited by the City Charter from seeking a third.
 
One-Paragraph Reference
 Mr. Goode's disclosure raises as many questions as it answers, and some political analysts tend to dismiss the whole book as self-serving. "Goode tries to do a lot of reinventing of history," said Neil Oxman, a Democratic campaign strategist who helped Mr. Goode win his first mayoral election in 1983. "But unfortunately for him, the citizens of Philadelphia have made up their mind that he was one of the worst mayors of all time."
The autobiographical book, entitled "In Goode Faith" and co-written by Joann Stevens of Washington, is being published by Judson Press in Valley Forge, Pa. The company said that 15,000 copies were being distributed nationally and that Mr. Goode was scheduling appearances on national radio and television talk shows.
The book deals with the assassination plot in a single paragraph, but that disclosure has captured more public interest than anything else. . Mr. Goode said the assassination was supposed to occur on May 13, 1985, the day that nearly 500 police officers assembled in west Philadelphia to serve members of the radical group Move with arrest warrants on charges of parole violation and assault. The heavily armed black cult members had fortified their home and had become a threat to the predominantly black neighborhood. The confrontation resulted in the deaths of 11 of the 13 cult members, including five children, and left a neighborhood in ruins when fire swept through it.
 
Why He Stayed Home
 Mr. Goode writes that he stayed home that day because "I feared being killed." He says three people he considered reliable had told him that some renegade police officers were plotting to shoot him, presumably only because he was black and mayor, and that these officers would then portray him as a victim of cross-fire between the police and Move members. Mr. Goode has refused to reveal the three sources.
"I was outraged!" He wrote. "At the same time I battled my instincts to be at the scene of the action."
Mr. Goode might have had reason to fear elements of the police department, which had developed a national reputation for racism and brutality in the 1970's during the tenure of Mayor Frank L. Rizzo, who has since died.
Mr. Goode did not tell any law enforcement officials about the threat. Charles W. Bowser, who was a member of the Philadelphia Special Investigation Commission on the Move confrontation and was once one of Mr. Goode's informal advisers, said: "He should have contacted the F.B.I. or the State Police or some other law enforcement agency to have it investigated. Otherwise, he was leaving individuals on the police force who he believed had the intent to commit assassination, and I just think that's outrageous."
 
'Put the Fire Out!'
 The commission, a panel of civic leaders that Mr. Goode appointed, determined that Mr. Goode had "abdicated his responsibilities as a leader." No criminal charges were ever brought against any officials involved in the incident.
The Mayor watched television as the confrontation grew from an exchange of gunfire into a battle. The police alone fired 10,000 bullets and used water cannons, smoke bombs and tear gas. Eleven hours into the confrontation, Mr. Goode, by telephone, authorized the use of explosives, and a police helicopter dropped a military bomb onto the row house, turning it into an inferno. The Fire Department let the fire burn for 45 minutes before responding, and it consumed 60 houses and left 250 people homeless.
" 'Put the fire out!" I yelled at the screen,' " Mr. Goode writes. "I paced from room to room, banging on desks and talking to the television screens."
Mr. Goode wrote that he accepted responsibility for the disaster because it "happened on my watch," but he says his aides were guilty of misinforming him about the operation. He also blamed racist police for the brutality of the confrontation and, ultimately, for his increasing ineffectiveness over the remaining six and a half years of his administration.
"Sadly," Mr. Goode writes, "I realized that the police had killed two birds with one stone -- Move and me."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: IN GOODE FAITH (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOVE (ORGN) PHILADELPHIA SPECIAL INVESTIGATION COMMISSION (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOVE (ORGN) PHILADELPHIA SPECIAL INVESTIGATION COMMISSION (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILADELPHIA (PA) UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; RACIAL RELATIONS; POLICE; BLACKS (IN US) LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ASSASSINATION (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CULTS & SECTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ARREST WARRANTS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); PAROLE (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: GOODE, W WILSON; HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY W WILSON GOODE (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



632 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Anti-Drug Moves Irk Bolivians

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRINIDAD, Bolivia

 BODY:
The United States effort to halt the flow of cocaine is coming under attack in Bolivia, which has opened its doors wider than any other to American drug agents and tolerated heavy political influence from Washington.
Recent miscues by the Bolivian Government and United States officials have stoked strong resentment against the American presence, and a move to restrict United States activities threatens to become a central issue in next June's presidential elections. 
 "Never in our history has there been so much anti-American feeling," said Jorge Lazarte, a political scientist and director of Bolivia's National Electoral Court. "The United States Embassy has acted with such a sense of superiority that it has hurt our national pride. We may be a poor country, but we still have our dignity."
In recent weeks, every major presidential candidate has called either for the removal or a substantial reduction of United States military and drug personnel in Bolivia and a "readjustment" in Bolivian-United States relations.
 
Drug Policy Setback Feared
 "The perception of the people is that we have lost our sovereignty," said Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, the current front-running candidate and head of the National Revolutionary Movement party.
United States officials fear that if a national consensus emerges to throw out the Americans, it could set back drug policy here for years, virtually erasing any recent gains.
Bolivia produces about a third of the world's coca leaves, the raw material for cocaine -- ranking second to Peru, which produces two-thirds. And after Colombia, it is the largest exporter of pure cocaine to Europe and the United States. Drug trafficking brings between $300 million and $500 million into the Bolivian economy each year, compared with legal exports of $1 billion.
More than 100 personnel from the Drug Enforcement Administration, the United States military and the Central Intelligence Agency are involved in the drug war in Bolivia. Of about $200 million in annual American aid to Bolivia, $48 million goes to fighting the traffickers.
 
Few Anti-Drug Victories
 In the more than two years since President Bush met with the leaders of the three Andean nations in Cartagena, Colombia, and declared war against the South American drug trade, there have been few bright spots in United States-Andean anti-drug efforts.
A crackdown in Colombia has hurt the once-dominant Medellin cartel, but the cartel based in Cali has moved in to fill the void, in part by moving operations across the border into Bolivia. And in July the head of the Medellin cartel, Pablo Escobar, escaped from his custom-built prison compound.
In Peru, President Alberto Fujimori's controversial suspension of constitutional rule in April prompted the United States to cut off assistance in anti-drug efforts already hampered by an alliance between traffickers and Shining Path guerrillas.
In Bolivia, however, some progress appears to have been made, although even here officials concede that their victories may be fleeting, producing at best shifts in traffickers' operations.
 
Seizures and Extraditions
 Still, American officials say, the amount of refined cocaine leaving Bolivia has dropped dramatically in recent months. "The organizations are really hurting and they are in disarray," said a United States agent. "We've hit them very hard. But this all could be set back by the current political climate."
The officials cited the seizure in June 1991 of the jungle town of Santa Ana, for decades a wild-west type holdout of traffickers. Within weeks, eight major Bolivian traffickers surrendered. In addition, over the last year, several other traffickers have been extradited to the United States. At least half a dozen corrupt police and Government officials have been removed from their posts.
Finally, counternarcotics teams have begun the largest offensive to date in the coca-producing Chapare region, where Colombian traffickers from the Cali cartel have moved in to replace recently smashed Bolivian distribution networks.
 But recent events have soured the mood of cooperation, underlining the risks to the United States of becoming so deeply enmeshed in the affairs of Bolivia.
In June, residents of this jungle town watched as dozens of American military aircraft, loaded with men and supplies, hopped from here to Santa Ana del Yacuma. Rumors spread quickly. The soldiers were were said to be burying nuclear waste in Bolivia's jungle Beni region or building a huge United States military base similar to the one in Panama. Or they were trafficking in children. Press reports based on the rumors stirred wide outrage.
The soldiers, in fact, were army engineers out of Fort Bragg, N.C., on one of their many goodwill missions, building a school for Santa Ana. The Government of Jaime Paz Zamora, which previously had sought Congressional approval for such an arrival of foreign troops, had failed to notify Congress.
Then in August, an American D.E.A. agent, sitting in a bar at the eastern lowlands city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, accidently shot and wounded a Bolivian in the shoulder. The next day, as the Government prepared to file charges, the agent was flown out of the country. The incident also received wide publicity and stirred indignation, and Bolivia is now seeking extradition.
 
Where Troops Are Popular
 "Think of it, they can extradite our people for trial, but we cannot put Americans on trial here who commit crimes," said Mr. Lazarte.
The Yankee-go-home sentiment is far from unanimous. In this jungle town and in Santa Ana, many residents have approached the troops, asking them to begin other civic projects.
 
'We Could Win Here'
 But drug officials are worried that either Congress or the Bolivian Government will force them to pull back at a critical juncture.
"We could win here," said a United States official. "Sometimes you can smell it and see it."
Rooting out corruption among Bolivian politicians, military and police is seen by many as the most critical task.
Robert S. Gelbard, the United States Ambassador here until July 1991, frequently used a heavy hand in denouncing officials found to be corrupt, a tactic that now seems to be backfiring. A former Interior Minister was forced to resign after such denunciations.
On a quieter level, D.E.A. officials keep exhaustive data banks on police, military officials and politicians in Bolivia, as well as maintain an extensive network of paid informers. The Bolivian Government routinely sends lists of suggested police appointees in drug trafficking regions to the D.E.A. for its review. Names on those lists are frequently rejected.
"In Bolivia we are at a rare historical moment in which there is a significant cadre of clean people who are hanging by their fingernails," said an American official. "We have to support these people. We are not going to win this war by going to diplomatic cocktail parties."

GRAPHIC: Map of Bolivia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOLIVIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN DRUG CENTER INC (85%); AMERICAN DRUG CORP (85%); AMERICAN DRUG SCREENS INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BOLIVIA; UNITED STATES BOLIVIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BOLIVIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COCAINE (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); CARTELS (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (62%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



633 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Hungarian's Attack on Opponents Sets Off Storm

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, Sept. 19

 BODY:
A leader of Hungary's center-right governing party has touched off a storm with a report asserting that the political opposition, liberals, Jews, Western financiers and the press are sabotaging the Government's work.
The political leader, Istvan Csurka, a vice president of the Hungarian Democratic Forum, published his analysis last month in the party weekly. The 57-year-old playwright was one of Hungary's most popular writers in the 1970's and 80's and an important figure in the opposition in the Communist era. 
 Mr. Csurka (pronounced CHOOR-kuh) cited instances of what he considered Jewish and foreign influence over Hungarian affairs, deception by opposition members and wavering by his own party. Referring to the Communist elite that used to rule, he said, "Consensus is the nomenklatura's newest slogan to stay in power."
Many Hungarians interpreted a reference to "genetic reasons for deterioration" of the country as an allusion to gypsies, but Mr. Csurka denied this.
Some members of Mr. Csurka's own party quickly condemned his work, with one member likening its message to Nazi ideology.
Prime Minister Jozsef Antall, who is also president of the Democratic Forum, told Parliament that he had to distance himself from some ideas in the publication. "Istvan Csurka's political pamphlet," he said, "offers politically harmful and wrong answers, with which neither the Government nor I can agree."
He singled out Mr. Csurka's comparison of the International Monetary Fund's presence in Hungary to the postwar Soviet Army presence.
Opposition members were more blunt. "Forces within the governing party who want to take the country in the direction of Balkan chaos have begun to dictate," Laszlo Kover, a member of the Federation of Young Democrats, told Parliament.
No one can say how much support Mr. Csurka has in his party. The Democratic Forum is to hold a congress in November to determine its course, and until then Mr. Csurka and his rivals will be courting members.
Foreign politicians have warned of the publication's potentially negative effect on Hungary's image abroad. Representative Tom Lantos, Democrat of California, who was born in Hungary, said he would raise the publication in Congress next week.
While there does not appear to be much popular support for a far-right political surge in Hungary now, many commentators have said the Csurka study hit a chord of anger in society, appealing in particular to embittered, poor, elderly Hungarians who feel they have gained nothing from the end of Communism but rising prices.
But many Hungarians said it also reached out to the middle class, especially those who feel they have been denied economic opportunity and are sinking into poverty.
"A lot of people are dissatisfied, because we had promised that they would live better, not that only those who had previously collected the capital could become entrepreneurs," said Istvan Elek, a member of the Democratic Forum's liberal wing.
Mr. Csurka reminded his readers that while the Communist Party's political network had been broken, its members' economic might had not. The Communist-era elite remains largely in place as factory managers, bank executives and business owners, he said, preventing the formation of a new middle class.
"My study was intended to throw a spotlight on this," Mr. Csurka said.
He said he had been alarmed by a discussion in the Democratic Forum last spring in which several leaders called for keeping the old economic leaders in place to get the economy moving. "What if America were a land of opportunity where only descendants of the Mayflower had the right to prosper?" he asked in an interview.
Mr. Csurka also appeared to tap a widespread disappointment with the West's unwillingness to provide large amounts of aid. "There's always a Western examiner coming along, and we're always failing the exam he sets, so there is some real anger about this," said Laszlo Lengyel, director of the Financial Research Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (99%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); 

COMPANY: HUNGARIAN DEMOCRATIC FORUM (58%); HUNGARIAN DEMOCRATIC FORUM (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUNGARIAN DEMOCRATIC FORUM (58%); HUNGARIAN DEMOCRATIC FORUM (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY HUNGARY (99%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; JEWS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: CSURKA, ISTVAN TOM LANTOS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



634 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Shrinking Tax Base Means Higher Long Island Taxes

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, L.I., Sept. 19

 BODY:
For the first time in its history, the total assessed value of property on Long Island is going down -- which means the average taxpayer now faces a property-tax increase to make up for lost revenues.
Officials say lower home-sale prices, a wave of challenges to assessments and new rules removing some property from the tax rolls have shrunk the total value of taxable property. To compensate, county officials say they must raise tax rates, resulting in higher tax bills for a majority of taxpayers whose assessments have not changed. 
 Compounding the revenue problem is an increase in delinquent taxes, arising in part from recession-driven bankruptcies and foreclosures.
Suffolk County property owners, already paying among the highest property taxes in the country, are threatened with a 20 percent tax increase, nearly half of it to cover losses resulting from lower property values. County officials attribute the other half of the tax rise to increases in the cost of state-mandated programs administered by the county, like social welfare and child care.
 
'Ugly, but Honest' Budget
 The additional tax dollars would be needed to help balance a $1.5 billion budget for 1993, proposed Friday by Suffolk County Executive Robert J. Gaffney, who described his fiscal plan as "ugly, but honest."
Mr. Gaffney, in presenting his budget, said the county was greatly concerned that assessed valuation in Suffolk had fallen by approximately $120 million this year.
He said that even if no additional money were needed for mandated costs, the reduction in total assessed valuation would require increases averaging $123 a taxpayer, just for the county's share of a homeowner's total property-tax bill.
The county's share accounts for only 16 percent of the taxes paid by homeowners in Suffolk and neighboring Nassau County. The largest share, 60 percent, goes to school districts. The rest goes to local towns and villages and special library, fire and sewer districts.
 
Drop in Nassau, but Less
 In Nassau, County Executive Thomas Gulotta is also struggling to hold down county expenses in the face of a lingering recession and lower property values, as he prepares his budget for 1993, when he will also be seeking re-election.
In Nassau, the Department of Assessment has reported a decline of $27 million in the taxable value of commercial and residential property. Nassau officials say that since the decline is smaller than Suffolk's, it should have less impact on next year's budget.
Officials in both counties attribute the decline in property values to the ailing economy on Long Island, a weak real-estate market and a wave of successful assessment challenges by taxpayers. They also cite legislation approved by Albany that removes some utility property from the tax rolls, like the Shoreham nuclear power plant, which is being decommissioned by a state agency.
There is also a rising tide of tax delinquencies in both counties, further crimping cash flow and increasing the cost of tax collections.
 
If Everyone Paid Tax Due
 According to budget procedures, the counties can only record property-tax revenues when the payments have actually been received. Suffolk County has about $35 million in property taxes that have not been paid so far this year.
"And that creates a budgetary deficit of $35 million," said Charles K. Stein, Deputy Suffolk County Executive for Budget and Finance. "If everybody would pay their taxes, we'd be in great shape."
That amount is equal to the sum the county will have to borrow to cover the deficit left over from the 1991 budget Mr. Gaffney inherited from his predecessor, Patrick J. Halpin.
Nassau County is due to release its 1992 tax delinquency figures in the next few weeks. Officials say that from 1989 to 1991, total unpaid property taxes went from $59.7 million to $86.6 million, a 45 percent rise.
 
Delays by Bankruptcies
 The slowdown in tax payments coincided with an increase in bankruptcy petitions, which have the effect of delaying tax payments for as long as three years, officials said.
If owners do not make payments on vacant or commercial property within one year, or on residential property within three years, Suffolk County takes title to the land and can sell it at auction. During the entire period, however, the county is without tax income from the property. In Nassau, the county sells liens on the property to private investors to recover most or part of the lost tax revenues.
By state law, all property taxes on Long Island are collected by the county, which distributes them to towns, school districts and other special districts. If there are not enough tax dollars to go around, the county ends up on the short end and must borrow the difference until the delinquent taxes are recovered. The costs of the borrowing and the dunning of delinquent taxpayers are paid by the county, which in turn passes them to property owners in the next tax bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; PROPERTY TAXES; TAXATION PROPERTY TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX INCREASES (92%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (85%); FORECLOSURE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (62%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (61%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (61%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); POWER PLANTS (60%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



635 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: What's Good for Daily News Means Different Things for Other Papers

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
On the muddy battlefield of New York City's longstanding newspaper war, a revived Daily News with a wealthy new owner like Mortimer B. Zuckerman would clearly affect the other combatants: The New York Times, The New York Post and New York Newsday. One would be helped; the others, hurt, newspaper and labor leaders say.
Mr. Zuckerman, the New York real-estate developer and the owner of U.S. News & World Report, will almost certainly acquire the bankrupt Daily News, having won the support of eight of the paper's nine unions and the endorsement of The News's board of directors. 
 The deal has yet to clear bankruptcy court, and Mr. Zuckerman must still reach agreement with the paper's creditors and the Newspaper Guild. But even Peter S. Kalikow, the owner of The Post, who only last week was predicting he would be The News's eventual buyer, said on Friday that he expected Mr. Zuckerman to take the prize.
In broad terms, say the industry and labor officials, a Zuckerman-owned Daily News would seem to be good for The Times, bad for The Post and even worse for New York Newsday.
 
Consequences for Competitors
 In the short term, The Times hopes to use Mr. Zuckerman's deal with the pressmen's union to reach its own pact with that union, enabling the paper to open its new color printing plant at Edison, N.J., with all craft-union issues settled until 2000.
In the long term, the continued publication of The News, whoever owns it, would help The Times because both Newsday and The Post would face an even more competitive tabloid war. Had The News died, Newsday would have been a more direct competitor to The Times. Because Newsday had the most to gain, it now has the most to lose.
Officials of both The Times and the pressmen said that if Mr. Zuckerman acquires The News, The Times would use that as an opportunity to reduce staffing by offering enhanced severance to some of its pressmen and then filling the vacancies that are created with pressmen who leave The News. In exchange, The Times would win lower staffing levels than those in the current contract and would eventually achieve those levels through attrition.
 
Possible Sale of Plant
 That would satisfy The Times's goal of shifting the bulk of its printing operation to the Edison plant and closing a plant in Carlstadt, N.J., with all of its craft-union contracts settled. John M. O'Brien, the paper's deputy general manager, said that The Times plans to complete the move by April 1993.
Mr. Zuckerman has said that he has already had some discussions with The Times about acquiring the abandoned Carlstadt plant and refitting the black and white presses there to print in color.
Should Mr. Zuckerman and The Times reach agreement, The Times would eliminate an idle plant and Mr. Zuckerman might be able to achieve his labor savings by the end of next year. Of course, Mr. Zuckerman has other options, like taking over another empty plant or building one, and he said he had not yet made a decision.
 
Effects on Newsday
 In addition to helping The Times achieve its short-term labor goals, continued existence of The News would help The Times by forcing New York Newsday into a competitive battle that it had hoped it to avoid, newspaper leaders say.
During the strike at The News two years ago, the paper's circulation dropped to 300,000 from 1.2 million, its advertising all but disappeared and its death seemed likely. Had The News ceased publication, New York Newsday would have been the primary beneficiary and, like a hurricane gathering force, would probably have mounted an all-out assault on the high-demographic audience of The New York Times.
Though a tabloid like The News, New York Newsday's market niche is somewhere between the blue-collar and immigrant audience of The News and The Times's white-collar audience, which is generally wealthier. From The Times's perspective, The News is not a competitor, but New York Newsday is, and a revived News could effectively distract New York Newsday by going after its audience in Brooklyn and Queens, traditional News strongholds.
Ultimately, of course, a strong News would also be a competitor to The Times for retail and classified advertising, but from The Times's perspective that is a small price to pay for keeping New York Newsday at bay.
"From the perspective of The New York Times, the revival of The News is positive for the newspaper business and the city," said Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the publisher of The Times, who declined to discuss the competitive situation in detail.
New York Newsday has consistently dismissed any suggestion that anything The News did would affect its overall plan, which has been slow and steady expansion from the paper's Long Island base into Brooklyn, Queens and, to some extent, Manhattan.
 
Potential Financial Problems
 Certainly New York Newsday would be unlikely to change its plan before waiting to see whether Mr. Zuckerman can weather the difficult financial times ahead and restore significant profitability, which The News has not had for decades. Should he fail, New York Newsday, once again, would stand to benefit the most.
Because most of Mr. Zuckerman's labor savings are pegged to a new plant, he may face huge financial problems in the next two years, especially if newsprint prices rise dramatically and the already depressed advertising climate should worsen.
Fred Drasner, who is president of U.S. News & World Report and who Mr. Zuckerman has said will be the publisher of The News if the deal goes through, declined to discuss The News's marketing plans or its financial situation.
But Michael M. Connery, a lawyer advising the newspaper unions, said that Mr. Zuckerman has realized small immediate labor savings from all the unions and stands to gain significant savings from an immediate reduction of nonunion employees and from the guild, which represents news, advertising and clerical workers.
 
Deep Pockets
 Although The News is losing money, it is nearly breaking even, and Mr. Connery said that he believes the paper would have little difficulty weathering the two years until the new plant is completed.
Presumably, Mr. Zuckerman, who Forbes magazine estimates to be worth more than $265 million, could finance any losses, but business executives are generally not inclined to do so for very long. From New York Newsday's perspective, the strategy would probably be to hold on and hope that Mr. Zuckerman fails.
For two decades the conventional wisdom of the newspaper business has been that The New York Post could not survive because it is perceived to be the weakest of four competing newspapers in a world where few cities have even two competitors.
But The Post has managed to hang on by cutting its expenses to the bone and by attracting an audience that, in many cases, also reads one of the city's other newspapers. The Post's combination of gossip, sports, crime and scandal has won an audience that allows Mr. Kalikow to operate it at what he terms "close to break even or a little profit."
Even with a revived News, Mr. Kalikow said, The Post could survive as it has. But Mr. Kalikow is in personal bankruptcy and his own financial situation could be a greater threat to The Post than a revived News.
 
Impact of Newsprint Prices
 Mr. Kalikow has said that he believes a new owner of The News would be wise to try to buy The Post because The News could probably add about 150,000 to its daily circulation if The Post were not competing. And without The Post, Mr. Kalikow said, The News would have more flexibility to raise its advertising rates, even beyond what the added circulation would justify.
But Mr. Zuckerman has said he is not interested in buying The Post.
While added circulation from The Post might help attract new advertising, the additional papers could actually cost The News money if newsprint prices rise, as is expected.
The News and The Post both sell on newsstands for 40 cents, The Times is 50 cents and New York Newsday is 35 cents. If newsprint prices increase, Mr. Kalikow said, he will raise his newsstand price, which would make it easier for The News to do so.
But without The Post, The News would be head-to-head with New York Newsday, which has traditionally made a cheaper price part of its appeal. Conceivably, with a steep rise in the price of paper, The News could find itself with more circulation but losing money on every extra sale, because the competition with New York Newsday would preclude raising the newsstand price.
And as for The Post's absence giving The News more flexibility in advertising pricing, the competition for advertising is now so fierce in a weak economy that The News would probably get little if any advantage.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a bid to acquire the bankrupt Daily News, Mortimer B. Zuckerman, a New York real-estate developer and the owner of U.S. News & World Report, has won the endorsement of the paper's board of directors and support of eight of its nine unions. (Adam Fernandez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES; NEWSDAY; NEW YORK POST NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); NEWSDAY INC (92%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (72%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (56%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; NEWSDAY; NEW YORK POST THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (56%); THE NEWSPAPER GUILD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; NEWSPAPERS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FORECASTS LABOR UNIONS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); PLANT CLOSINGS (75%); REAL ESTATE (72%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (70%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B MORTIMER B ZUCKERMAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



636 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: CARE Headquarters To Move to Atlanta From Manhattan

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ

 BODY:
CARE, the international relief group, announced yesterday that it would move its national headquarters from New York to Atlanta next year, a move it said was caused by high operating and housing costs.
CARE, which was established in New York 46 years ago, will be given a five-story building in downtown Atlanta, to be bought and remodeled by an Atlanta charitable group, the Robert Woodruff Foundation. Atlanta civic and business leaders also arranged to cover part of the group's $6 million relocation costs and to give the group free and discounted legal, accounting and travel services. 
 "Obviously, we're disappointed to see CARE leave," Carl Weisbrod, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, said yesterday. "We're in a situation where other cities that don't have the variety and number of national and international organizations that we do will go to extraordinary lengths to get one or two or three."
Judith Webb, a vice president of the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce, said CARE's presence would bring added "international recognition" to the city, as well as 200 new jobs.
 
Hard to Find Housing
 Jack McBride, a CARE vice president, said that New York had worked with the agency to keep it here, but that little could be done to offset the city's high operating costs and cost of living, particularly housing. He said it was difficult to find homes for overseas employees who were on temporary stints in the New York office.
CARE estimated that the move would save it more than $10 million in expenses over the next 10 years and would let it rotate more of its international staff through headquarters.
CARE will keep a regional office with about 15 people in New York. Its current headquarters is at 660 First Avenue, near 37th Street.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COOPERATIVE FOR AMERICAN RELIEF EVERYWHERE (CARE) NEW YORK CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (92%); ATLANTA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); ATLANTA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COOPERATIVE FOR AMERICAN RELIEF EVERYWHERE (CARE) ATLANTA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); ATLANTA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTA (GA); NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS COMPANY RELOCATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); COST OF LIVING (77%); CHARITIES (77%); JOB CREATION (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: RABINOWITZ, JONATHAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



637 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: A CENSUS DISPARITY FOR ASIANS IN U.S.

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Americans with roots in Asian countries and the Pacific Islands continue to stand out in educational achievement, but this advantage does not translate into higher per capita income, according to newly released Census Bureau data.
The latest data from a periodic survey of American families reveal that Asian-Americans complete more years of school than whites, on average, and are as likely as whites to be in professional occupations, but are still underrepresented in skilled crafts and in executive suites. As a result, median salaries of Asian-American workers lag behind those of whites. 
 And the report highlighted one other nuance: Because Asian-American families tend to have more wage earners than white families, their median household incomes surpass those of white households.
Slightly more than seven million residents of the United States trace their ancestry to Asian countries like China, Japan, Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and India or to Pacific Island nations like the Philippines. They now represent about 3 percent of the total American population.
The survey, taken in March 1991, showed that 4.1 million Asians, or about 60 percent of the total Asian-American population, lived in the West -- the vast majority of them in California.
 
Educational Success
 The report tracks earlier accounts of the relative educational successes of Asians 25 years of age and older, 82 percent of whom have completed high school (compared with 80 percent of whites), 39 percent of whom have completed four years of college (compared with 22 percent of whites) and 16 percent of whom have had at least one year of graduate study (as opposed to 9 percent of whites.)
But it also indicates that the overall educational success of Asians does not always translate into overall economic advantage.
For instance, according to the report, written by a Census Bureau demographer, Claudette E. Bennett, Asian high school graduates earned 79 percent of what their white counterparts made, $21,060 compared with $26,530, while the median salary of Asian male college graduates, $37,550, was about 90 percent of the median salary of white men, $41,660.
But earnings of Asian-American women equaled or slightly exceeded those of their white counterparts. Among college graduates, the median salary for Asian-American women was $29,150, compared with $29,110 for white women.
All the median income calculations are based on a sampling of adults 25 years old or older who were working full-time. No comparisons were made with other racial or ethnic groups.
 
Asian Blue-Collar Workers
 The differences between the incomes of Asian-American and white workers offer a window on the complex economic patterns among Asian-American wage earners. While great attention has been focused on the academic achievements of Asian-Americans, less notice has been given to Asian blue-collar workers.
"Asian and Pacific Islander males with a high school education were considerably less likely to be employed in precision production, craft and repair occupations (18 percent) than were white males (29 percent)," the report said.
"The lower percentage of Asian and Pacific Islander male high school graduates who worked in high-paying precision production, craft and repair occupations, as well as their lower median earnings in these occupational groups, ($22,770 compared to 27,600 for white males) contributed to the lower median earnings they received," it said.
In 1990, the poverty rate for Asian and Pacific Islander families, 11 percent, far outstripped that of white families, 8 percent.
But despite those elevated poverty rates, Asian households are still more likely than whites to have multiple wage earners. As a result, the overall median income of Asian families, $42,250, significantly exceeded that of white families, $36,920.
This was true even though the per capita income of the Asian and Pacific Islander population, $13,420, trailed that of the white population, $15,260.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Uneven Wages," shows median income in 1990 of full-time orkers 25 years old and older with four or more years of college, for white, Asiana nd Pacific Island men and women. (Source: Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ASIAN-AMERICANS; LABOR; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WAGES AND SALARIES; INCOME CENSUS (93%); ASIAN AMERICANS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); FAMILY (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (88%); WOMEN (86%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); MEN (68%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



638 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1741 words

HEADLINE: New York Fears Impact of U.N. Cuts

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
From his 37th-floor windows at the United Nations, Vladimir F. Petrovsky, the former Deputy Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union, surveyed the Chrysler Building, Citicorp Center and other corporate monoliths as he described the deep financial problems at the world body, one of New York City's biggest employers.
"The United Nations has played a critical role in peacekeeping around the world," said Mr. Petrovsky. In February, he and Richard L. Thornburgh, the former United States Attorney General, were appointed by Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary General of the United Nations, as Under Secretaries General charged with streamlining the United Nations in ways that resemble the reorganization of a large American corporation. 
 "Now," Mr. Petrovsky said, "we must clean our own house."
The economic fallout could be harsh for New York City, where the United Nations has for decades been the equivalent of an international economic mother lode on the East Side of Manhattan. City records show that it supports a diplomatic corps and staff of over 50,000, and pays $1 billion a year for apartments, offices and other services.
 
Budget Talk in Many Tongues
 On Tuesday, the United Nations General Assembly opened its 47th annual session amid assurances by Mr. Boutros-Ghali to the staff that it was committed to remaining in its home on the East River. But throughout the week, its polyglot corridors were filled with anxious talk of spending cuts, reorganization and lost jobs.
And while the General Assembly is rooted in Manhattan, the vast international relief agencies of the United Nations are not. Two of the largest, the United Nations Children's Fund and the United Nations Development Program, are considering new headquarters sites.
The agencies' search for new quarters has drawn them into a bruising competition between New York City and the Government of Germany, which has already offered the Development Program free rent and reimbursement for moving expenses if it relocates to Bonn. A similar German offer is expected to the Children's Fund, also known as Unicef.
But the pressure on the United Nations to cut its spending remains intense. The chief problem is that member nations, particularly the United States, have fallen far behind in their dues to the world body.
 
'New York Is Fiercely Committed'
 Even accounting for the cost cutting already this year, the United Nations estimates that it will have a $81 million deficit for the year ending Dec. 31.
Last week, as thousands of diplomats, delegates and staff members converged on Manhattan, the United Nations emerged as a cause celebre among city, state and Federal officials trying to shore up New York City's battered economy.
"New York is fiercely committed to the United Nations," Barry F. Sullivan, Mayor David N. Dinkins's deputy for finance and economic development, said in a speech to international bankers on Monday, the day before the General Assembly's opening.
It came amid a frenzy of arm twisting, civic seduction and promises of financial aid. On Monday night, Mayor Dinkins held a reception for Secretary General Boutros-Ghali; it was the largest gathering of top city and United Nations officials in a decade. While city officials are trying to lure Unicef to development sites in Brooklyn and Queens, members of Congress from New York are pressing bills in Washington to allow the sale of tax-free municipal bonds, which would make it cheaper for the United Nations agencies to stay in the city. Such bond sales are now used by many government and nonprofit organizations to lower interest charges, but since the sweeping Federal tax revision in 1986, the United Nations has not qualified for such aid.
 
Getting What They Want
 More immediate relief may come from the United Nations Development Corporation, a city and state agency that owns the East Side offices of some United Nations departments, and the office buildings that house most of its agencies. Thomas Appleby, the agency's president, said last week it would consider lower rents on new United Nations leases.
"My sense is we'll get whatever we want, at least within reason," said one senior United Nations staff member, who, invoking the subtleties of international diplomacy, insisted that his name not be used.
The stakes for New York City are huge. Although the international prestige of the world body cannot be measured, its employment rolls can. City records show that it has 10,000 staff members in Manhattan, and that the assorted missions, consulates and relief agencies that serve it employ 45,000 more in the city.
Its muscle goes beyond routine employment figures. It is a magnet for international conferences, and many of its diplomats are dispatched to Manhattan with rich expense accounts for apartments, hotel rooms, restaurants, clothing, and limousines.
 
'They Don't Go to McDonald's'
 "This is an industry unto itself," J. Richard Foran, the United Nations Assistant Secretary General for General Services, said on Friday as he and other senior United Nations officials prepared for the arrival of President Bush, who is to address the General Assembly tomorrow. "When these people come to New York they go out to eat. And they don't go to McDonald's or Blimpie's."
But a new sense of austerity has begun to take hold and seems certain to spread. Diplomats and member governments have criticized the management of the United Nations for years, angrily accusing it of excessive spending and sometimes calling it the pork barrel of the world.
"The compelling rationale for the United Nations is not the bottom line, but to ignore sound management would be a tragic mistake," said Mr. Thornburgh. "This organization had become much too top-heavy."
Now, as the United Nations Under Secretary General for Administration and Management, he has taken on the role of chief cost-cutter, and asked McKinsey & Company, Price-Waterhouse, and other New York City corporate consultants for advice.
 
Attrition by Peacekeeping
 The first reductions were ordered by Mr. Boutros-Ghali almost immediately after his election as Secretary General in January. A total of 13 departments and 22 of the United Nations' 30 highest posts, including those of several assistant secretaries general, were eliminated.
Mr. Thornburgh said the consolidation was accomplished largely by leaving vacancies unfilled and reassigning officials and staff members, many of them to jobs more closely tied to the United Nations' growing peacekeeping duties in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Cambodia and elsewhere.
But Mr. Thornburgh has cut more deeply in recent months. More than 50 jobs in his own department are gone, and he said he had asked other department heads to impose similar reductions, resulting in several hundred fewer jobs.
So far, he said, nearly all of the staff cuts have been accomplished through attrition and by offering workers alternative posts in the organization. At an anxiously awaited "Staff Day" meeting on Sept. 11 -- an annual gathering of thousands of workers in the General Assembly hall -- Mr. Boutros-Ghali announced that no workers would be dismissed this year as a result of the revamping.
 
U.S. Owes the Most
 In a report last week, Mr. Thornburgh said the member nations were behind $1.6 billion in payments. The most recalcitrant nations are the United States, which owes $733.2 million, and Russia, which owes $420.4 million. Twelve others, including South Africa, Japan and France, each owe more than $10 million.
The huge unpaid bills have piled up largely because of world politics. The United States began falling far behind in the mid-1980's, when Congress assailed the United Nations repeatedly for its mandates related to Isreal and Lebanon, and criticized it for financial waste.
Now, with the United Nations' stature on the rise, the United States is in the second year of a five-year payment schedule, ordered by Congress, that it says will make good on all its outstanding bills to the world body by the end of 1995.
Still, Mr. Thornburgh said, there is no assurance other members will pay off their debts. That means no one can be sure that more cost reductions and job cuts can be avoided.
 
Relief Agencies Growing
 The United Nations Children's Fund, with 950 employees in Manhattan, and the United Nations Development Program, with 1,200, face different pressures. Because they are financed by voluntary donations, they have been spared the fiscal squeeze resulting from unpaid contributions to the United Nations itself.
But both relief agencies have grown in employment and worldwide commitments. They need more space than they now occupy in the United Nations Plaza, a complex of three buildings built by the United Nations Development Corporation between 1975 and 1985 across First Avenue from the General Assembly building.
International analysts said that Germany's offer of free rent and moving expenses to the Development Program was prompted by a desire to enhance its international stature and bolster the economy of Bonn, the former capital of West Germany. National unification and the planned movement of several German Government agencies to Berlin are expected to leave a glut of office buildings in Bonn.
 
Lure to Unicef Expected
 Soren Syssegaard, a spokesman for the Development Program, said the German offer had been extended until the end of 1996, and that directors of the relief agency would not decide whether to accept it at least until their annual meeting in June.
Mr. Appleby, whose job as president of the Development Corporation makes him the landlord to both the Development Program and the Childrens Fund, said last week that "we fully expect" the German Government to make a similar offer of free rent and travel expenses to Unicef.
But in a recent letter, he said, officials of the Children's Fund wrote that they would prefer to remain in their Manhattan offices if the city could find additional space nearby.
At City Hall, development officials are known to be courting the Children's Fund with an array of alternatives in Brooklyn and Queens, including new offices in a Hilton hotel complex that is planned in downtown Brooklyn, and in buildings that are planned in Hunters Point, Queens, directly across the East River from the General Assembly building. Unicef is also considering a proposed 20-story office tower in New Rochelle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) CITIGROUP INC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CHILDREN (86%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); TRENDS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J BOUTROS BOUTROS-GHALI (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



639 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: When a Baby Is So Unaffordable It Is Abandoned

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 19

 BODY:
About 3 o'clock on a warm August morning in one of San Diego's rougher neighborhoods, a woman was awakened by the sound of a crying baby. She put on a robe, went downstairs and, on her front porch, found a plump baby boy wearing a diaper and a T-shirt. He had two front teeth and a robust pair of lungs.
Since the discovery of the 9-month-old boy -- the sixth child abandoned this year in San Diego County -- the police and social service agencies have stepped up a publicity campaign to find the family. 
 Two weeks ago officials held a televised news conference about the baby boy. Now, in stores and at other public areas where the forsaken children were found, the authorities have begun putting up posters displaying all the children's pictures. The families of two of them have been found; county officials have not yet decided whether to press charges against them.
 
Economic Explanations
 To explain the abandonments some look to the area's stuggling economy, one that has produced growing homelessness and unemployment.
"The general consensus is, with the economy the way it is right now, a lot of people just can't afford to raise a child," said Ron Hall, the police officer in charge of the 9-month-old boy's case.
There are no available statistics on the number of children left in hospitals, churches or on street corners in cities around the country. A recent informal survey by the Child Welfare League of America, a national organization of social service agencies, found a sharp increase this year in "boarder babies," newborns who are healthy enough to go home but who remain in hospitals because their parents have either abandoned them or are homeless and cannot care for them.
With California's unemployment rate near 10 percent, two points above the national average, the police here worry that they will be handling even more cases of abandoned children.
Like Tom Jones, the raucous character in Henry Fielding's novel, these children appear to have been abandoned out of love, by parents who believed the children would be better off without them. But unlike Tom, who is raised by a wealthy landowner, these children generally end up in foster homes.
 
Looking for a Mercedes
 "In the cases that I've worked on, economics was the primary reason," said Tim Drum, a police detective who located the families of two abandoned children. "It was out of a great deal of caring that these women did this."
One child was just a couple of hours old when Mr. Drum found her in the back of a pickup truck in the parking lot of a shopping center.
"When we found the mother, she told us she went to the shopping center and looked for an expensive car, like a BMW or a Mercedes, to put the baby in," Mr. Drum said. When she was unable to find an unlocked car, she put the baby in the bed of a new truck.
The woman and her husband had other children at home, were unemployed and, she told the police, could not afford another child. The baby girl was returned to the family. Officials have not decided whether to press charges against the woman.
In most cases of abandonment the parent or child's caretaker feels isolated and, with nowhere else to turn, seeks a caring and comfortable place to leave the child, the police and social-service providers say. Often domestic violence contributes to the parents despair.
Another of Mr. Drum's cases was that of a 2-year-old boy who was being reared by his grandmother when they were evicted from their apartment last spring. The grandmother took the child to a day-care center, asked if she could leave the boy there for a couple of hours and then left and did not return.
The grandmother later told the police that she had been beaten by her boyfriend and worried that the boyfriend would begin to abuse the child. The child's mother had moved to Las Vegas, Nev., to search for a job.
The grandmother, Mr. Drum said, did what she thought was best for the child. "Like any parent, she just wanted him to be in a safe environment," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAN DIEGO (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BABIES; ABANDONMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); COUNTIES (75%); TRENDS (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); RETAILERS (74%); FOSTER CARE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); STATISTICS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: RON E HALL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



640 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: White-Collar Recession: Shifting Perceptions and Politics

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: METUCHEN, N.J., Sept. 18

 BODY:
The Mazda is five years old now, but running fine, so Ed and Donna Huntress will wait another year or two to replace it. Mr. Huntress is remodeling the kitchen himself, instead of hiring a contractor. Vacation this year was a camping trip instead of the usual journey to the Virgin Islands, but Michael is 5 years old now, and likes camping better.
At the Huntresses' bungalow here, as in most homes across the vast archipelago of comfortable middle-income suburbs outside New York City, the recession has not taken much of a visible toll, but it is changing the way that many families live and the way they view their future. 
 Now in its fourth year nationally, the recession has given many people their first introduction to a sense of economic stagnation. But New Jersey's unemployment rate among white-collar workers like Mr. Huntress, at 2.2 percent, is lower than in both New York, 4.1 percent, and Connecticut, at 2.5 percent, according to the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.
"There's the perception and then there is the reality," Mr. Huntress said. "The reality is not bad at all; we are doing fine. But the perception is that there is a problem, and it is making me a little bit uncomfortable and concerned about the long range."
These are not the problems of blue-collar workers, for whom factory closings and wrenching layoffs have pushed jobless rates well over 10 percent in most job categories in New Jersey. For them, the recession has come as a sharper blow. Mr. Huntress, who is 44 years old, writes advertising copy for a small group of machine-tool manufacturers.
He said he earns between $50,000 and $100,000 a year. After spending as much as a quarter of that for health insurance and his home-office expenses, he said what remains places him squarely in financial company with his neighbors, a lawyer and the president of a small company in New York. Mrs. Huntress, 43 years old, was a fashion buyer for stores like Sterns and Macy's before Michael was born. She quit work to stay home with him in 1987.
"We're more careful now," she said of their household budget. "I've seen our grocery spending go up steadily. I never used to clip coupons, but now I do. I joined Price Club and I did it to save money, not because I like shopping in a warehouse."
Her husband added: "We watch small expenses, like movies, that we never used to worry about. It's not that we're miserly, we're just being rational."
Watching the dimes and quarters is not what bothers the Huntresses. What troubles them is that they did not expect to have to be this careful at this point in their lives. The recession, they say, has put their lives on hold.
"I must say we are not where I thought we would be at this point in time," Mrs. Huntress explained. "I thought we would have moved to a larger house, for one thing. I really thought things would be easier for us at this point. I know if I were still working we really would have these things, but that was a sacrifice we are willing to make.'
 
Remodeling, Not Moving
 When he left his last employer 12 years ago to begin free-lance advertising work, Mr. Huntress had hoped that, by now, there might be two or three employees to help with the clerical and research work, but he has postponed such an expansion in favor of increasing his savings during the recession.
Both he and his wife want a house larger than their 1,200-square-foot, two-bedroom bungalow, perhaps one across the Pennsylvania border, where it is less crowded but still easy to travel to New York City. But instead of househunting they are remodeling their kitchen and planning to add another room next year.
And in a stronger economy, Mr. Huntress said, that Mazda would have been replaced by now. As they speak of dreams deferred, the Huntresses could be speaking for countless others who are not buying that new house or car, and so leaving the housing and automobile industries depressed, or not hiring to expand their businesses, as reflected in stubbornly high jobless rates. Even their doubts about the future are reflected in the Business Round Table index of consumer confidence, which stands at nearly half its 1985 level.
Mrs. Huntress thought for a moment and seized the note of optimism that had brought her and her husband this far, from their first meeting as classmates at Michigan State more than 20 years ago.
"We are planning to have all the things we wanted," she said. "It just isn't happening as quickly as we thought it would."
When will it happen?
"During the 80's," Mr. Huntress said, "I thought we were back in the kind of cycle we were in in the 60's, short-term recessions followed by recovery. That kind of cycle doesn't upset me. What upsets me are the signs that the underlying problems are permanent, that it's not just another cycle we're in. That we really are going to the dogs."
The first sign of permanent distress is the hardship that factory workers and laborers are having, he said.
 
'Look Pretty Expendable'
 "When the economy is percolating it means that a guy with no skills can get a job that supports a non-income-producing wife, a house, two cars and college for the kids," he said. "Those are the people that the rest of us in the service economy depend on. If the part of the economy that makes those jobs, and values our services, isn't cooking, we start to look pretty expendable. And we are."
This line of analysis brings up politics, and Mr. Huntress calls himself a "Reagan Democrat" who may return to his roots for this election. Since he first voted in 1972, his choices for President have been George McGovern, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, Ronald Reagan and George Bush. This time, he is not so sure.
Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas says he is campaigning on behalf of "the forgotten middle class." And while the Huntresses were speaking, President Bush was making his third visit to the New Jersey suburbs, pledging that his policies will improve the economy.
"I'm a typical conservative suburbanite," Mr. Huntress said. "When things are going well, I want the Government to leave things alone. When the economy is bad, I get scared and want a more activist administration. So I think I'm going to hold my nose and vote for Clinton."
Mrs. Huntress, the daughter of rock-ribbed Illinois Republicans, voted for Mr. Bush last time, but is still undecided.
"I'd like to vote for Bush, but I'm really upset about the attacks on gays and the abortion issue and the whole viciousness of it," she said. "For some reason, they strike home for me more than the economy. Anyway, I don't know what Bush or Clinton can do about the economy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ed and Donna Huntress, with their son, Michael, at home in Metuchen, N.J. The Huntresses are one of many families living in comfortable middle-income suburbs who, while not visibly affected by the recession, are changing the way they live and how they view their future. (Najlah Feanny for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; SUBURBS; WHITE COLLAR WORKERS RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); CAMPING (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); FAMILY (75%); CLOSINGS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); PLANT CLOSINGS (68%); STATISTICS (68%); RETAIL COUPONS (68%); MACHINE TOOLS (64%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; HUNTRESS, ED; HUNTRESS, DONNA MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



641 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: It's a Whole New Campaign as Senator and Attorney General Go One on One;
D'Amato Virtually Severs Ties to Bush And Attacks Opponent as 'Incumbent'

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
His best friend is not just Jewish, but Ed Koch. He barely knows George Bush. He has wheeled all kinds of bargains for middle-class New Yorkers, but God forbid people should think of him as part of the entrenched Washington Establishment. And Al D'Amato is shocked, shocked, shocked by the "vicious, anti-Italian" campaign his Democratic opponent, Robert Abrams has led -- almost as shocked as he is by Bob Abrams's "fund-raising shakedown."
At least, that is the portrait Alfonse M. D'Amato is painting of himself as he seeks a third term in the United States Senate. In the first volley of television advertisements, the D'Amato campaign has taken the offensive, defining his opponent as "hopelessly liberal," with claims that Mr. Abrams's health plan and defense cuts would raise taxes and eliminate jobs. But the Senator has decided to redefine himself as well. 
 At a time when many voters consider incumbency a character flaw, in a state where the top of the Republican ticket is trailing in the polls, and against an Attorney General who is making ethics a central issue, Mr. D'Amato's 1992 strategy includes a make-over.
President Bush is expected to travel to New York tomorrow, but Mr. D'Amato said he had no plans to campaign at his side. Keiran Mahoney, his campaign manager, said that unless the White House changes plans, Mr. D'Amato will only see Mr. Bush at an evening fund-raiser in New York City that is closed to the press.
 
Distancing Himself
 Though the White House calculates that the New York Senator has voted 78 percent of the time with Mr. Bush, Mr. D'Amato has lately been stressing the occasions on which he has voted against the Republican President. Most of his ads, in fact, prominently feature a Democrat. And lest any viewers forget Mr. Koch's religious affiliation, Mr. Koch was filmed at an office desk, a menorah on the ledge behind him.
"Koch is New York, George Bush isn't," is how Anthony W. Marsh -- a media consultant whose firm, Marsh & Russo, created Mr. D'Amato's ads -- explained the heavy reliance on the former Mayor. "We don't want to become apologists for the Bush Administration."
But Mr. D'Amato has borrowed some of the President's campaign rhetoric, saying he will seek to portray his opponent as a "tax-and-spend" liberal, someone who, as Mr. D'Amato put it, "will cost New York hundreds and thousands of jobs."
 
Courting Jewish Vote
 And in stressing the endorsement of Mr. Koch, the campaign is hoping Mr. D'Amato, a longtime supporter of Israel, will be able to get votes from conservative and Orthodox Jews, despite the fact that Mr. Abrams, who is Jewish, expects to do very well among Jewish voters. He has attacked Mr. Abrams for not being supportive enough of the President's decision to send troops to the Persian Gulf. And he reminds voters that when it comes to Saddam Hussein, "I took on the Administration, I didn't wait until the war started or public opinion changed to call him the Butcher of Bagdad."
Mr. D'Amato opposes abortion and supports the death penalty, unlike a majority of New York voters. But as an Italian-American he is likely to do well with Italian-American voters, who are the largest single ethnic group in New York State. He has begun portraying himself as Geraldine A. Ferraro's defender, dismissing Mr. Abrams's questions about her possible ties to organized crime as "a brutal, vicious campaign of smear and innuendo" against Italian-Americans.
Mr. D'Amato, however, was the first candidate to suggest that Ms. Ferraro had dealings with criminals (his campaign issued a statement in August noting that Nicholas Sands "a.k.a. Dominick Santiago" a convicted labor racketeer, had raised money for the former Congresswoman's early campaigns).
 
Ethnic Loyalty a Factor
 Mr. D'Amato said that the main issue in the Senate race was the economy, but ethnic loyalty is also a factor. Forty-four percent of voters in the general election Nov. 3 are Catholic, 14 percent are Jewish. Besides Mr. Koch, a conservative Democrat, the Senator expects to rely heavily on Jack F. Kemp, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and a former Congressman from Buffalo who scores well with Democratic voters. Mr. Kemp, once a quarterback with the Buffalo Bills, could help Mr. D'Amato appeal to blue-collar Democrats upstate.
Mr. D'Amato cannot afford to cede any portion of the voting population, said Lawrence Mandelker, a former official in the Koch administration. "A large part of the voting population is uncomfortable with Mr. D'Amato on ethics, and his position on 'choice,' " Mr. Mandelker said.
The Senator has not yet volunteered his anti-abortion stance in his TV ads, but he does address the issue of ethics. Mr. D'Amato, who was scolded by the Senate Ethics Committee for allowing his brother to use the Senator's office stationery for lobbying purposes, is trying to turn the tables on Mr. Abrams, railing in an interview about a 1989 commission that criticized the Attorney General and other state officials for taking campaign contributions from people who did business with the state.
 
Sees Himself as Fighter
 Hank Morris, a Democratic consultant, argues that Mr. D'Amato's complaints about his opponent's negative campaign attacks could strike some voters as, "he doth protest too much."
"Some of D'Amato's arguments ring completely untrue to people -- he has an image as a rough-and-tough negative campaigner," Mr. Morris added. (In his 1980, primary campaign against the ailing Jacob Javits, who was suffering from Lou Gehrig's disease, Mr. D'Amato ran ads that vividly depicted his opponent's illness.)
Mr. D'Amato bridles at the word incumbent, preferring to refer to himself as the fighter. At times, he even traded identities with Mr. Abrams, calling his challenger, "a classic political insider" and "an incumbent." Mr. D'Amato said, "I'm the one who takes on the causes of his constituency." Taking on a mock tone of grandiloquence, he called Mr. Abrams, "a business-as-usual incumbent who is into the pomp and circumstance of the office -- Senatorial, oh so Senatorial."
There is one perk of incumbency that Mr. D'Amato is unlikely to forgo: fund-raising. As of the end of August, his campaign had raised more than $8 million. It currently has $3.7 million. And their spending strategy is simple. Zenia Mucha, the deputy campaign manager and press secretary explained, "We plan to stay on the air statewide from now all the way through the election."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato at his news conference Wednesday from his campaign headquarters on West 28th Street in Manhattan. He focused on the economic plans of his opponent, Robert Abrams. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "THE SENATE RACE: How the Candidates Compare"
 
MONEY:
 Has Raised (as of Aug. 26) - $8.5 million:
 Cash on Hand: $3.7 million
 Expected expenditures from now through Election Day: $5-$6 million.

PEOPLE:
 Arthur Finkelstein, campaign strategist. A longtime pollster turned consultant who has advised Mr. D'Amato in all his campaigns since 1980. Also advised Ron Lauder in his ill-fated 1989 Republican mayoral primary campaign.
 
 Keiran Mahoney, 35, campaign manager. A member of Mr. D'Amato's Senate staff from 1981 to 1985, Mr. Mahoney returned to the Washington office in 1990.
 Zenia Mucha, deputy campaign manager and press secretary. Has worked for Mr. D'Amato since 1982. Worked in New York for Ronald Reagan's presidential campaign in 1984 and for George Bush's campaign in 1988.

Drew Graham, 25, finance director. Formerly a financial analyst for Morgan Stanley.
 
STRATEGY: To outspend the Abrams campaign with statewide ads that portray the Attorney General as "hopelessly liberal," and remind voters that Mr. D'Amato is known as the "pothole Senator," who brings home Federal aid to his district.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY NEW YORK (76%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); REPUBLICAN PARTY NEW YORK (76%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; JEWS; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); RELIGION (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); ETHICS (66%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



642 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY;
Salvation Is at Hand: Lindros Makes Debut

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The National Hockey League, which survived 75 seasons without him, presented its first Eric Lindros Show this afternoon in an exhibition match between the team he rejected and the team he accepted after forcing a trade.
Lindros scored one goal and set up Mark Recchi's game-winner in leading the Flyers to a 4-3 victory over the Quebec Nordiques before 17,226 fans at the Spectrum. 
 It was an impressive debut for a high-salaried teen-ager who is seen by many in the hockey business as the rising star who will lead the struggling league into a new era of American television exposure and international consciousness.
"I've never seen as many people at an exhibition game," Lindros said. "I hope they enjoyed themselves. I know I did."
 
Is This Trip Necessary?
 It was a twist of fate that Lindros began his career against Quebec, the team that originally drafted him. He refused to play for the Nordiques for reasons that included economics, culture and language. But it was calculation that will keep him home Sunday when the Flyers play a return match against the Nordiques in Quebec City at le Colisee.
Lindros is expected to get a rude greeting from the fans on his first trip there, so Flyer management decided to postpone that until the teams meet there in the regular season on Oct. 13.
The player left open the possibility that he would persuade team management to let him play in Quebec on Sunday night. "Yeah, I'd like to get up there," he said. "I do what I'm told. The bus leaves at 7:30. Maybe I'll be on it. Maybe I won't."
A spokesman for the Flyers repeated after the news conference that Lindros wouldn't play Sunday.
Lindros took a regular shift today, killed penalties and worked the power play. He got about 25 minutes of ice time in part because Kerry Fraser, the referee, called 32 penalties as the officials tested the interpretation of tougher new rules against high-sticking and other fouls.
He set up several scoring chances and drew gasps and cheers late in the first period for a rush that gave the customers hope for the future of a once-successful franchise that has sagged badly in recent seasons.
With the teams playing four aside, Lindros cradled the puck at his own blue line, fought off a holding attempt by Valery Kamensky and charged up ice. He bulled through three other Nordiques and zeroed in on the goalie, Jacques Cloutier. Lindros fired a hard, rising wrist shot that missed the corner of the net but cracked off the glass with a loud bang. The fans roared as a penalty was called on Kamensky.
In the second period, Lindros showed the checking advantages that come with his size -- 6 feet 5 inches and 235 pounds. A collision with Bill Lindsay left the latter on the seat of his pants. He also collided, accidentally, with Recchi.
"He just smiled at me," Recchi said, referring to Lindros. "He almost knocked me out."
At 18 minutes 17 seconds of the second period, Lindros scored his first goal of the N.H.L. exhibition season, with the Flyers holding a two-man edge. When Recchi's pass across the crease was tipped by a defenseman, Lindros glided in on the left side and swatted the loose puck past Stephane Fiset, Quebec's second goalie.
Lindros celebrated by slapping the hands of teammates on the bench and accidentally collided with a Nordique when he turned from the bench and skated back toward center ice. At 8:12 of the third period, with the Flyers on another two-man power play, Lindros passed across the crease to Recchi, who finished off the play.
Lindros, 19 years old, joined the league and the Flyers this fall after a year of controversy. Selected by the Nordiques first over all in the 1991 draft, he refused to report and played for the Canadian Olympic team in order to force a trade.
The Nordiques traded him last June at the draft in Montreal, but both the Flyers and the Rangers claimed they had a deal with Quebec. The Nordiques sided with the Rangers, but an arbitrator ruled in favor of Philadelphia.
Lindros is earning an estimated $3.5 million per season, the largest salary in professional hockey.
When someone asked if the Quebec players said negative things to him, Lindros smiled and replied that they didn't.
"They're there," he said, "and I'm not sure they're all that excited to be there. So, what are they going to do?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: PHILADELPHIA FLYERS; QUEBEC NORDIQUES QUEBEC NORDIQUES (93%); QUEBEC NORDIQUES (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (91%); DALLAS STARS (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (91%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA FLYERS; QUEBEC NORDIQUES QUEBEC NORDIQUES (93%); QUEBEC NORDIQUES (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (91%); DALLAS STARS (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (91%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (88%); QUEBEC, CANADA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (52%); 

PERSON: LINDROS, ERIC; LAPOINTE, JOE ERIC BRYAN LINDROS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



643 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
Every Day's Crunch Time For Handley

BYLINE: By FRANK LITSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Sept. 19

 BODY:
Many Giants fans are looking for a lynching, and the neck they want belongs to Ray Handley, the team's beleaguered coach.
They blame him for the Giants' 8-8 record last year, one season after a Super Bowl championship. They blame him for the Giants' 0-2 start this year, a record that could easily slip to 0-3 Monday night against the Bears in Chicago. They blame him for everything except low interest rates on savings accounts. They dislike him intensely. 
 They say Handley is over his head and messing up a pro football team that can win. In 1983, they were saying that Bill Parcells, the Giants' new head coach, was over his head and messing up a team that could win.
Parcells survived his 3-12-1 rookie season and led the Giants to two Super Bowl victories. When Parcells suddenly resigned in May 1991, the job was thrust on Handley, who had been ready to abandon coaching for law school.
The public is angry that Handley is not Parcells. The dissenters cry that Handley is an intellectual who does not understand motivation, that he cannot communicate, that he picked the wrong quarterback last year and ended up alienating both of his veteran quarterbacks, that he has confused his players, that he plays a boring offense, that he tried to mess up a sound offensive line, that he is making a stable defense complicated and angering the veterans who have to play it, that he is a cold, emotionless fish. And on and on.
In a frank interview last week, Handley said he had heard it all. He said he did not care what the public thought about his performance as long as he was satisfying the people who hired him.
"I don't regret taking the job," he said. "I enjoy the job. Winning always makes it more enjoyable. I regret I haven't been able to put together a winning record, not yet. The only pressure is self-inflicted. The people in the organization have been extremely supportive."
The people in the stands have not. When the Giants give up a touchdown or fail to score one or break down in any way, the chant arises: "Ray Must Go."
If chants are not enough, T-shirts are available for $8 with the same message: "Ray Must Go."
Ray is not going. This is the second year of his three-year contract, and General Manager George Young of the Giants, who hired him, is not about to fire him, at least not during the season.
"The coach is not the issue," Young said. "I've said that over and over. We've played two games. You think anybody can recognize positives when you lose? With Bill Parcells, we didn't go to the playoffs the two years after our first Super Bowl."
The Giants are not going to the Super Bowl this season, either, not with their inconsistency. They may struggle to be 8-8 again.
Handley said his image had been created unfairly by the news media.
"I don't know why the media perceives me the way it does," he said. "I don't think I've hit it off with any part of the media. Sure, I walked out of a press conference last year and I've been sharp with people a few times, but I haven't been uncooperative."
Sometimes, he has not been cooperative -- like the time he walked out of that news conference last year because he was angered by persistent questions whether Jeff Hostetler would get his quarterback job back from Phil Simms when healthy. Reporters there were upset because they considered the question valid.
Another incident happened nine days ago. Hostetler, recovered from another back injury, said Handley had just told him that Simms would continue to start. Hostetler was distraught because Handley had said publicly that Hostetler would regain the job when healthy.
Twenty minutes after Hoststler spoke, Handley met with the media at his daily news conference. Handley talked as if he had not decided who his quarterback would be.
 
Too Much Quarterback Talk
 Handley seems irritated at the constant questions about quarterback. He says quarterback is just another position on the team, although it is seldom that on any team, certainly not on these Giants.
The news media, for better or for worse, made a hero of Parcells. He was brassy and witty, a self-styled Jersey guy. He manipulated players, and some felt he demeaned them in his attempt to motivate them. But he also helped them win two Super Bowl rings.
The players played hard for Parcells because they knew there would be success. Some may not be playing that hard for Handley.
"I think Ray is a good coach," said linebacker Lawrence Taylor, who had a strong relationship with Parcells. "But like anyone else, just like Bill Parcells when he came in, he has to show us he knows what's going on. I think he has to take more control this year, which is good. I think he can be a winner. It's always up to the players. Are they doing what it takes to play for the man? A coach is only as good as his players."
The idea that a coach must prove himself to players seems novel. But Taylor said that having a new coach, and Handley is still new, is like having a substitute teacher in school. Everyone tries to find out how much he can get away with. That stage may have ended, but the Giants still seem uncertain at times. Some critics say they appear unmotivated.
Since childhood, football players have had coaches who try to motivate them loudly, frenetically and endlessly. Handley believes that professional football players should motivate themselves, that coaches should be teachers rather than motivators. Taylor agrees to a point.
"We are all professionals," he said. "We're grown men who get paid a lot to play the sport. Should there be motivation from the coaches at all? But I think it's up to the head coach to get everybody in the right frame of mind. It all boils down to trust. If you trust the guy, if he shows he knows what he's talking about, it's O.K."
Some players like Handley, some do not and most seem indifferent to whoever coaches them.
"We can play for Ray Handley," one veteran player said. "We have to make up our minds to play. It's his team."
Another veteran said: "A coach can't take the blame for dropped balls and fumbles and offsides and interceptions. It's our job to make plays and not mistakes."
A third player said Handley was making more mistakes than any coach should.
"He mishandled the quarterback controversy last year and got both guys upset," this player said. "He gives us a good game plan, but he doesn't kick guys in the rear when they need it. Some of these guys don't even know it's their responsibility to get ready for a game."
There is another side of the argument. Handley does not show emotion, but neither did Tom Landry, a winning coach with Dallas. Handley is changing a winning defense, but Parcells changed a winning offense after one Super Bowl and won another. Handley was perceived as the villain in last year's quarterback controversy, but two people on the team said Hostetler became the starter then only because Simms told Handley he did not think his injured foot had healed sufficiently. Simms denies he said that, and Handley will not talk about it.
Harry Carson, a former Giants inside linebacker and now a television personality, said the Giants' problems came not from Handley but from the players.
"It's not so much that the Giants are bad," he said, "but that their play is bad. Fans don't want to see lousy football. If you go out and play and get beat by a superior team, fans can see that and appreciate that. But if you don't make tackles, you don't catch balls that are catchable and you don't block for the quarterback, people don't accept that and they shouldn't. You're going to get booed.
"The coach shouldn't have to scream and shout. They're professional football players. They make a lot of money. That should be incentive to go out and play hard. When you're booed in your own house, shouldn't you play hard? I think Parcells got too much credit and Handley gets too much blame. It's the players' problem now, and I think they need Handley."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ray Handley (Jerry Pinkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GIANTS NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); CHICAGO BEARS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); CHICAGO BEARS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); VETERANS (70%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: LITSKY, FRANK; HANDLEY, RAY RAY HANDLEY (97%); BILL PARCELLS (91%); JEFF HOSTETLER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



644 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 14; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: GARDENING;
Mum's the Word but Tulips Are on the Mind

BYLINE: By JOAN LEE FAUST

 BODY:
THIS is a reminder. If the bulbs to bloom next spring have not been ordered from catalogues, get busy. Domestic orders must be in as the mail-order houses will soon begin shipping.
Spring-blooming bulbs will be planted this fall, usually October, so that they will be ready to put on their displays when the weather settles. Bulbs are dormant when planted, but will soon start to develop roots. Depending on the soil temperature, these young roots will continue to grow but will stop developing when the soil chills. 
 By next spring the roots will resume their function and be ready to push up foliage, buds and eventually the flowers. Roots anchor the bulbs and absorb moisture. When foliage starts to appear next spring and there is a sudden cold snap or even a snowstorm, gardeners often become alarmed and fear that their bulbs will be killed. Not to worry. This is a natural phenomenon. The foliage and the flowers will be safe in such weather. In fact, many a crocus has been photographed in snow.
More important now is making the decisions of what bulbs to plant and where, and to mail the bulb orders promptly before it is too late. For the largest floral displays, the Big Three -- daffodils, tulips and hyacinths -- are counted on. The daffodils can stay in place for many, many years before they will need dividing. (Daffodil bulbs multiply underground and eventually become a thick mass.) For this reason, daffodils are often selected for naturalizing in woodsy locations. Also, squirrels seem to leave them alone. Tulips do not last for years. The old bulb dies each year and a new one forms above it. Eventually, in two years or so, the tulip display becomes disappointing. Gardeners usually have best results by planting new tulip bulbs every year. Hyacinths may last a bit longer, but they are usually replaced every few years, too.
When buying daffodil bulbs, some gardeners believe that bigger is better. A helpful clarification on daffodil "noses" appears in the catalogue of McClure and Zimmerman, bulb brokers in Friesland, Wis. "All daffodil bulbs have at least one 'nose' from which the stem, leaves and flowers emerge," the catalogue explains. "Some daffodils regularly produce bulbs with one, two, three or more noses. These bulbs are usually sized by weight of the bulb not the number of noses. A 'double-nose' bulb may not be the largest; the term only describes what the bulb looks like, not its size. Some daffodils, especially species and miniatures, practically never produce bulbs with multiple noses. For these bulbs, the term 'double nose' is inappropriate."
By ordering bulbs by mail it will be possible to obtain some of the rarer species and especially the little bulbs that may not be sold at the local garden centers. The species bulbs are the ones often used for small gardens, rock gardens and tuck-in spots where a touch of color is needed. Most of these smaller, beguiling flowers are under a foot tall.
But certain species have been under stress because they were being dug from the wild in their native lands. Many of them bloom naturally in Mediterranean countries where digging the bulbs for sale is part of the local economy. The species that have been of particular concern are cyclamen, snowdrops (galanthus) and the fall daffodil (sternbergia).
An international agreement between the Dutch bulb growers and bulb importers, many of them in the United States, requires that bulbs be labeled according to their sources, whether they were commercially propagated from seed, propagules, or collected from the wild. One of the watchdogs of this agreement has been the Natural Resources Defense Council. In an analysis of the 1991 permits for cyclamen, galanthus and sternbergia, the council reported that imports of bulbs of wild origin were down from last year.
Total imports of galanthus were 2.14 million in 1991, down from 3.78 million in 1990. Bulbs said to be galanthis elwesii or of Turkish origin fell from between 710,000 and 960,000 in 1990 to 387,000 in 1991. Sternbergia fell by 67 percent.
But all was not as rosy for cyclamen. The council found that imports of wild-dug cyclamen increased to nearly 128,000 from 70,000 and it noted that these figures returned the United States imports of this critically decimated wild plant to past levels of 100,000 to 150,000 a year. It is essential for gardeners to check their sources for any cyclamen to be sure they are buying cyclamens that have been propagated commercially. They are quite easy to grow from seed.
Most mail-order nurseries comply and many are now identifying the sources or origins of the bulbs they sell.
All bulbs, large or small, can help to turn spring into a glorious display: big bulbs for big displays, little bulbs for special places. These little bulbs were once the wildflowers of their native lands so they should be placed where they can be seen and appreciated.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); NETHERLANDS (55%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); NETHERLANDS (55%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: FLOWERS AND PLANTS; GARDENS AND GARDENING MAIL ORDER RETAILING (91%); GARDENING (90%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (76%); MAMMALS (73%); 

PERSON: FAUST, JOAN LEE

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



645 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Love Lombard Rates

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
While European politicians and financial gnomes panicked during last week's currency convulsions, the Swedes displayed uncharacteristic humor. They raised their interest rates 500 percent. "You shall not pass!" they shouted to the monetary barbarians at the gates of their precious krona.
This Swedish excess seemed the only sensible response to European behavior that made the U.S. appear, if only fleetingly, a well-governed country. Hegel opined that to be sane in a world of madmen is itself a form of insanity. Europeans are once again taking his advice to heart. 
 European leaders tossed out exotica like "Lombard rates," but what they were actually talking about last week was money. Or more precisely, the fact that no one has very much of it. Or more exactly still, that the Germans are the only Europeans who have any and are paying high interest rates to borrow what they do not have.
If you add what the Germans are borrowing to pay their debts to what Americans are soaking up to pay theirs, and tie that to the fact that Japan is spending more on itself and lending less, there is little money left for others.
But the problem is, as economists let you know, far, far more complex. It runs deep down to the inconvenient factoid that presidents and prime ministers borrow money to pay their bills because they refuse to raise taxes and reduce spending. If they did so, they would have every expectation of soon becoming former presidents and prime ministers. Such is the gratitude of free peoples everywhere.
Free peoples have a point, however, as other economists explain. For if leaders actually behaved responsibly and increased taxes and cut outlays -- but did it too quickly -- the effects would be devastating, even irresponsible. For instead of pumping money into their economies, they would be taking it out. The result would be a catastrophic loss of jobs. And as jobless rates grew, leaders would soon find themselves unemployed. (Unless they happened to be economists, in which case they would always be needed to explain Lombard rates -- central bank interest rates for overnight borrowing -- currency exchange rates, the float and why the Maastricht treaty is more a political document than an economic one.)
I note these ironies and paradoxes not to make light of economists, who must possess the analytical horsepower of nuclear physicists to generate such elegant ironies and paradoxes. I do so, rather, to rejoice in the simpler dilemmas of foreign policy and to contemplate the coming effects of economics on world politics.
I start from last week's central message: Westerners are running out of money; or to put it another way, mighty nations cannot afford to pay their bills.
This means that world leaders will think poor. They will be less disposed toward distractions like civil wars in Bosnia and the former Soviet Union. Ever more, the meek and weak shall be left to their fates. President Bush, it will be remembered, compared himself to Columbus. People laughed, then realized the common bond: both sailed around the world and finally discovered America. Increasingly, exploration and statesmanship will be seen as Old World extravagance.
Already-diminishing military establishments will shrink more quickly still. Soon enough, arms and warriors will be easier to eliminate than any other budget item. Thus, on those few occasions statesmen find the will to intervene, they will begin to lack the means.
Nations with arms to sell will sell them willy-nilly to any renegade with cash. Russia has little else to export. Britain, France and the U.S. will find weapons exports to be the only way to maintain defense industries. To nations with idling aircraft and missile factories, even Iranians will come to look like misunderstood spiritualists.
Germany and Japan, by virtue of their economic muscle, will gradually come to play greater military roles. But their emergence will occur even more slowly than expected -- unless ignited by dormant demons.
The most politically correct leaders will shrink before towering resistance to financing necessary causes like protecting rain forests and harboring refugees.
A world without money will be nasty and messy. But worry not, for with another quarter-point drop in the Lombard rate, it will all work out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); TRENDS (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); TAX INCREASES (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (50%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



646 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 16; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: More Issues Than Israel Concern Jewish Voters

 BODY:
I take exception to Abe Seldin, chairman of the Nassau County Board of Assessors, when he says, "Jews are more comfortable in the Republican Party these days" ["For L.I. Delegates, Touches of Glitter," Aug. 23]. Mr. Seldin cites a 2 percent rise in the number of delegates this year over the last convention and attributes the increase, albeit a skimpy one, to the Republican Party's Israel platform.
Unfortunately, Mr. Seldin's statement gives the false impression that politically Jewish-Americans care only about the Israel issue. Sure, most of us care deeply about the future of Israel. It's the issue that coalesces us. But it doesn't define us. Jews, like most other Americans, care about issues such as quality education, affordable and accessible health care and revitalizing our economy. Surveys show this to be true. 
 Perhaps that's why more than 400 Jewish-Americans were delegates at this year's Democratic convention, some four times the number that Mr. Seldin states were at the Republican convention.
 
MARK J. GROSSMAN
East Patchogue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY MARK J GROSSMAN (55%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); NASSAU COUNTY BOARD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); NASSAU COUNTY BOARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (67%); 

PERSON: GROSSMAN, MARK J ABE SELDIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



647 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Why We're in a Slump and Not Creating Jobs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Looking for Work: America Isn't Creating Enough Jobs, and No One Seems to Know Why," the lead article in the Sept. 6 Week in Review tells us. Anyone who reads your newspaper knows there are at least seven reasons why America is in a slump with not enough jobs to go around: 
 (1) The interest on the national debt, already 15 percent of the national budget, not counting the bonds issued to cover what has been borrowed from the Social Security trust fund, consumes money that could otherwise go toward Federal projects.
(2) Excessive regulation, mostly environmental, puts a lid on all new works. It is estimated to cost every household more than $4,000 a year. This curtails industrial projects.
(3) Inflation, now running at 3 percent a year, devalues money and erodes capital.
(4) The impossible goal of 100 percent purity and safety makes the cost of anything new too high to attract investment.
(5) Prisons eat up a large chunk of our tax money. Every year we jail six times as many people as Australia or Denmark, in proportion to population, and 10 times as many as Japan or the Netherlands -- even 50 percent more than South Africa. Jail sentences have increased 30 percent for sexual assault, but 1,600 percent for drug cases! Prisoners are parasites we cannot afford.
(6) Waste disposal is consuming an increasing share of everyone's income, as the price of advertising and convenience packaging rises.
(7) We learn less and less from the experience of our elders. Unlike the Japanese, who continue to employ and respect theirs, we say goodbye to ours, and conduct expensive meetings and seminars, mostly run by ambitious managers, seeking to recover what we have thrown away.
There are many more useless burdens that the ship of state is trying to tow, like dragging anchors, each of them a pet of the 500-odd freeloading members of the crew in the fo'c's'le, the 100 lookouts in the rigging or the 9 pilots in the deckhouse, preventing the captain from cutting them loose. What we need are drydocking and overhaul!
 
EUGENE H. HARLOW
Houston, Sept. 6, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); JAPAN (76%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); JAPAN (76%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); SENTENCING (75%); PRISONS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); SHIPBUILDING (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (56%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (55%); 

PERSON: HARLOW, EUGENE H MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



648 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Why We're in a Slump and Not Creating Jobs;
The Right Education

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Sept. 6 Week in Review report on the failure of the American economy to create jobs begins with the now popular concept of work-force training and education. Yes, our work force is at least as well educated as its Japanese and German counterparts. But, unlike those examples, American education mismatches its products to the demands of the market. It is not more college education, but higher quality education at all levels, plus diversified alternative education, that we need. 
 Our emphasis on college education has had two negative effects on our work-force training: first, it degrades any type of blue-collar work to a nonhonorific status, making any apprenticeship system by definition fit only for the intellectually less endowed, the dropouts, the inner-city unreachables. With this de-emphasis also comes an abandonment of craft codes, which acted as quality controls and a source of personal pride.
In their place came a deprecation of labor in general, as expressed in such bumper stickers as "A good day's fishing is better than a week's hard work" -- clearly not an expression of the old American work ethic.
The unbalanced supply made it more expensive to replace skills in the industrial sector. American corporations have always had a bias towards labor-saving policies because the United States has been a high-cost labor market. The successful post-World War II drive to liberate international trade, along with newly portable technology, made it possible to relocate production to low-cost markets and to lower consumer prices at home. At the same time the industrial base eroded, lessening in turn the need for skilled labor.
The problem will not be easily solved. However, foreign companies do profitably produce in this country with American labor. The failure to create jobs may therefore rest mostly with American management. It has attempted to remedy glaring educational deficiencies, but beyond that, as you report, has little interest in on-the-job training.
American corporations may need incentives to reverse this pattern. Surveys show that a large percentage of jobs in the future, as in the past, will not need a college education. We ought to de-emphasize college as a cure-all and upgrade alternative educational choices.
 
RICHARD HYSE
Oswego, N.Y., Sept. 6, 1992
 
The writer is an emeritus professor of economics at SUNY.
<ILS>Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHICS (73%); WRITERS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (68%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: HYSE, RICHARD (PROF) MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



649 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Sept. 13-19: Hawaiian Crunch;
Rebuilding in the Wake Of Hurricane Iniki

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

 BODY:
After Hurricane Iniki flattened their crops, toppled utility poles and ripped the roofs off their houses, some residents of the island of Kauai were able to take showers and make phone calls last week as basic services were restored. But officials said it could take six months or longer to return electricity to all 55,000 inhabitants of the sparsely settled island.
The hurricane, with winds of 160 miles per hour or more, roared across Kauai Sept. 11, killing three people and causing at least $1 billion in damage, destroying sugar cane fields and fledgling macadamia nut orchards. 
 It seemed almost a cruel joke when economists told The Honolulu Advertiser last week that, with the storm coming late in the year and with 10,000 homes damaged, an anticipated boom in the construction industry was likely to give the island record growth figures for the year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (96%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HONOLULU ADVERTISER INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAWAII; KAUAI (HAWAII) UNITED STATES (96%); HAWAII, USA (96%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE INIKI; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER HURRICANES (90%); WEATHER (88%); TROPICAL STORMS (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); TREE NUT FARMING (88%); CONSTRUCTION (85%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (73%); SUGAR FARMING (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



650 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: Sept. 13-19: Improve or Die;
New York's Chancellor Lets Students Pick Any School

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The national movement to let students choose their schools enlisted a mighty player last week: New York City, with its almost 1 million students.
Schools Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez said that, starting next year, he will let parents send their children to any of the city's 32 school districts, not just to their neighborhood schools. While he is still working out details, his plan will mean that parents of elementary and junior high school youngsters can scour the city for good schools and arrange to get their children there. 
 The plan, however, has holes that make it something less than a bonanza for parents. There is no money for transportation; many parents would balk at sending children to an ideal school by subway. Also, many of the best schools already have long waiting lists.
Gary Orfield, a Harvard University education professor who advised St. Louis on a choice plan, worries that without free transportation and money spent on recruitment, "you're creating schools which serve the most selective social and economic group" while schools with poor and less educated parents deteriorate.
Still, some Manhattan districts have been experimenting, producing programs in the sciences, performing arts and other fields. The freedom -- and money -- to create distinctive schools is pivotal, says Joe Nathan, another adviser.
"If you have two blue shirts made out of the same material, what kind of choice is that?" he asked.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); 

PERSON: FERNANDEZ, JOSEPH A (CHANCELLOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



651 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: A Conflict Over Havens That Advise and Shelter

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD

 BODY:
In the Bronx, in a fortresslike complex that lies at the end of the route that homeless families sometimes traverse through the city's complex and often frightening maze of shelters, there is a locked gate, an enforced curfew system and a prominently posted set of rules.
Residents must sign in and out. They must behave according to community standards. Miscreants are punished with expulsion, and their discharge, mostly, means a slide away from hope. 
 To those willing to follow the rules, the HELP Bronx apartments, run by the nonprofit Homeless Enterprise for the Less Privileged is a haven after weeks and sometimes years of battling the bureaucracy and the crowding of New York City's chronically overstretched shelter system. More important, it is a final stop in the system for most residents fortunate enough to win one of the places. The next move is usually to permanent housing and, presumably, a second start at life.
This week, the city's overcrowded shelter system was caught in a budget battle with the state. One of the main points of contention is a disagreement over whether the system known as Tier II, which provides transistional apartments for families at the relatively high cost of $3,000 a month per family, should continue to grow, or if money for that program should be shifted toward permanent relocations. The city had announced plans to open 1,000 more Tier II apartments.
 
Crowding and Controversy
 The controversy has sputtered for weeks. The city's shelter system is so overcrowded that more than a hundred families a night are sleeping on chairs and tables in city offices, waiting to be placed in shelters. On Sept. 10, state officials informed the city that it would have to improve conditions or face the loss of reimbursements. This week, State Social Services Commissioner Mary Jo Bane complained in a letter to the city that the shelter program could not continue to grow at the expense of permanent housing.
In the last six years, 65 new Tier II shelters, providing apartments for 4,000 families, like the HELP Bronx apartments, intended to provide a mix of social services and basic, relatively traditional, efficiency-apartment-style housing, have been built at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars as the city worked to help homeless families move into the mainstream. Structured around the theory that families need counseling, and basic advice before getting their own apartments, the complexes are a last stop on the return to independence.
Many advocates for the homeless agreed with that conclusion, noting that shelters siphon money that could otherwise go toward permanent housing. And they note, too, that shelters intended to provide temporary housing are sometimes used by residents for more than a year because they can not find permanent homes.
Advocates of the Tier II programs, however, say more such apartments are needed to prevent families from being shoved, unprepared, into difficult environments of crime, drugs and unemployment -- some of the very problems that drove many to the streets in the first place. "One of our biggest problems," said Frederick Shack, the executive director of the HELP Bronx program's two apartment complexes at 785 Corona Park North and 285 East 171st Street, "is that we need more and more room."
HELP Bronx is run with prisonlike discipline and round-the-clock security. The two compounds include day-care centers, counseling offices, playgrounds and other amenities, all kept nearly immaculate and with a few finishing touches like artwork and potted plants.
 
Fostering Hope
 Grace Lugo, who moved into the Corona Park HELP Bronx with her three children just a month ago, said on Friday that the Tier II shelter has given her hope. One of two families selected by Mr. Shack to describe the system's merits and organization, she said she had moved to the shelter after spending time at several temporary shelters in the city.
Ms. Lugo said she became homeless after a deteriorating relationship with her sister forced her to decide to move her family out of the woman's apartment. But her own journey into the system started earlier. A native of the Bronx, Ms. Lugo spent the last eight years in Puerto Rico, she said, and returned to the mainland the day before New Year's to escape her abusive husband.
Without a place to live, she moved in with her sister. But the overcrowding and the juggling of two families in a small space wore on everyone. "There is an expression in Spanish," she said. "You stink after awhile. So I felt I had to leave."
She had no money and nowhere to go. The next steps in her search for housing were "the worst experience of my life."
Thrust into the New York City shelter system, for three days Ms. Lugo scrambled just to find chairs in a shelter for her children to sleep on. Finally, the family was moved to a more accommodating shelter, but there, everything was open. "Everyone is right there," she said. "They put such a fear in you. I really got sick. I got high blood pressure."
The move to HELP Bronx, she said, has improved her health and her hopes for the future. She said she was receiving psychiatric help for the anxieties she suffered from the beatings at her husband's hands. She said she looked forward to finding an apartment "within three months" and looking for a job as well.
"I find it comfortable here," she said. "It's small. But it's safe. This is a blessing." Staff members at HELP Bronx were helping the family to look for government-subsidized housing, she said. And her daughter, Damaris Perez, a quiet 13-year-old who is an A student, is settling into a new school.
Diana Garcia moved to HELP Bronx with her two daughters and one son at the start of the summer. Her family became homeless after a fire in their building, at 1208 Southern Boulevard in the Bronx. Their first stop was a hotel near LaGuardia Airport in Queens, she said, a place she described as a haven for drugs where unemployed teen-agers lounged around all day long. "Not only were you homeless," she said, "you were degraded at the same time."
Like Ms. Lugo, Ms. Garcia said the HELP Bronx complex was her first step toward a more normal life. "When we came here," she said, "We were like, Oh, God! This is like an apartment complex. It's a little small, but the things you normally find in the Bronx like drugs and crime you don't find in here."
Soon, Ms. Garcia and her children will have to return to the harder world of life outside the shelter. She has found a government-subsidized apartment not far away and expects to move in several weeks. It will be a move into a world with plenty of problems. But it will also provide a place to once again call home.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 27, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a shelter for homeless families in the Bronx gave an incorrect address for one complex of the Help Bronx apartments. It is at 785 Crotona Park North.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A controversy is swirling over financing for growth of the Tier II shelter system, which provides transitional apartments for families like that of Diana Garcia, who lives with her three children in the Corona Park Help Bronx compound. Her children, from left, are Angel, Maria and Tiffany. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING HOMELESSNESS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CURFEW (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S GRACE LUGO (74%); PARK HELP BRONX (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



652 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5; Page 14; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 4182 words

HEADLINE: In the Land of Genghis Khan

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF is head of the Beijing
bureau of The New York Times.

 BODY:
OUT on the steppes, where the prairies stretch endlessly until they melt into mountain crags on the horizon, there's not much sign of the last few million years of human civilization. At most, one sees an occasional rutted dirt road or a shepherd's tent exhaling a plume of white smoke from a cooking fire made of cow chips.
 Mongolia, after all, has been in a funk for the last seven centuries. 
To be sure, Genghis Khan did pretty well for himself in the 1200's, establishing the largest continuous land empire the world has ever known. The Mongols controlled everything from Korea to Hungary, and they were poised to continue west when in 1242 their commander, Prince Batu, was abruptly summoned back to the Mongol capital for an important meeting. Otherwise, he would have swept through Western Europe facing little resistance, and today we might all be speaking Mongolian.
 Batu did return for the meeting, however, and Western Europe was saved. Then Genghis's grandson, Kublai Khan, moved the capital of the Mongol empire to Beijing, and ever since Mongolia has been a quiet kind of place.
 Leaders and ideologies come and go, but few tourists do, and the United States did not get around to establishing diplomatic relations until 1987. Last year only 282 American tourists visited the entire country.
 The lack of tourists, though, is simply another advantage of a nation that is rich in history, hospitality and unspoiled scenery. On the outskirts of the capital of Ulan Bator, at the Palace of the Bogd Gegeen, Mongolia's former god-king, there is no jostling as you wander alone through the gardens and admire the bright Buddhist sculptures and embroidery hanging on the walls.
 At Dashchoylin Monastery, in the center of Ulan Bator, the 120 monks look up from their prayers when foreigners walk in, and their chanting falters for a moment as they lose their concentration.
 In the countryside, drop in on any nomadic herdsman and he'll immediately invite you into his round white felt tent, or ger.
 Custom dictates that you sit on the left side, and that you accept a whiff of the snuff bottle that he may share. He's also likely to offer you a bowl of yogurt or ariq, fermented mare's milk. The friendliness leaves you with a warm feeling, even if the ariq tastes awful.
 Mongolia was the second country to become Communist, after the Soviet Union, when in 1921 it staged a small revolution that led to secession from China and the eradication of Buddhism.
 Mongolia was closely linked to the Soviet Union for the next 70 years, and it was difficult for Westerners to arrange visits. Then in 1990 a 27-year-old professor of Marxism named Zorig led a peaceful uprising that introduced democracy and capitalism. These days Mongolians are enormous fans of the United States, and tourism has never been easier.
 That is not to say that tourism is easy. Food is scarce and often atrocious, English-speakers are hard to find, hotels are poor, telecommunications difficult and visas difficult to obtain except for organized tours.
 When I visited the head of the national tourism agency, Zuulchin (or Juulchin), I found him besieged in his office by two women, an American and a Briton, who seemed ready to throttle him. They had been trying for days to arrange a trip out of the capital, a challenge that appeared insurmountable. He seemed grateful and relieved when I gave them the name of a translator who could arrange a private car for them.
 The starting point for almost all visitors to Mongolia is Ulan Bator, the capital, which is also spelled Ulaan Baatar and various other ways. There is no agreed-upon system for transliterating Mongolian names into English, and the proliferation of different spellings adds to the sense of cheerful chaos.
 About half of Ulan Bator is made up of the tired gray concrete buildings that are the legacy of Communism from East Berlin to Vladivostok.
 The streets are broad, suitable for military parades, and most people get around by foot or by bus. Public bus rides are a bargain, less than half a cent a ride, and they are a good way to explore the city.
 (All prices have been converted at an unofficial exchange rate of about 250 tugriks to the dollar. In theory, there is an official exchange rate of 40 tugriks to the dollar, but despite valiant efforts I was never able to convert dollars at that rate. The post office insists on paying the black market rate, and so does the Ulan Bator Hotel, even when traveler's checks are involved. There seems to be no penalty for black market exchanges, and in fact United States dollars are a second currency in Mongolia.)
 The focal point of the city is Suhbataar Square, a Mongolian version of Red Square in Moscow. It is a vast plaza with a central statue of Suhbataar, the architect of Mongolia's 1921 revolution. Herdsmen come from all over the country to have their photo taken on the square, as a souvenir of their visit to the big city. On the south end of the square is Government Palace, where the president has his offices on the third floor; on the east end is a pink building that houses the newly established Mongolian Stock Exchange. Shares are traded every Tuesday, and there is a public gallery for visitors to watch the show.
 Even in Ulan Bator, some 45 percent of the population lives in gers, often set up permanently with electricity as a year-round residence. You can stroll among the gers as you make your way to Ganden Monastery, the most famous in Mongolia.
 GANDEN is said to have once had 100,000 monks, but this is probably a wild exaggeration, since the entire population of Mongolia was only 600,000 at the time of the 1921 revolution. The country as a whole may have had about 80,000 to 100,000 monks then -- as many as one male in three -- and many thousands of them were at Ganden.
 Even when all the other monasteries in Mongolia were closed down by the rulers in the 1930's, Ganden survived and today it is very much a living monastery rather than a museum. There has been a resurgence of Buddhism since the collapse of communism in 1990, and today the number of monks at Ganden has risen from about 70 under Communism to more than 200.
 "A lot more boys want to be monks now, so the numbers will continue to rise," says Dorj, a weather-beaten caretaker in a green del, a cloak that is the national dress for both men and women. Ganden is being renovated, and the monks are making a special effort to recover a 90-foot high Buddhist statue, the Janraisig, that apparently was carted off to Russia half a century ago. If the Mongolians can find it, they want it back.
 In the courtyards of the monastery, old men and women in dels prostrate themselves before statues of the gods. They rise and pray, and then prostrate themselves once more. Younger people seem to have less enthusiasm for prostrations, but they join their parents in gleefully spinning the prayer wheels outside the temples. Visitors are welcome, and the best time to go to Ganden is in the mornings, because the odds are better that the monks will be in the middle of prayers.
 At Ganden and at other monasteries as well, it is quite a sight: the red-robed monks sit and chant in rows, facing each other, surrounded by spectacular painted Buddhist statues and embroidered hangings. There is none of the austerity of a Romanesque cathedral: rather, everything is colorful and every bit of space taken up with pillars and carvings and silk.
 More typical than Ganden, and nearly as impressive, is Dashchoylin Monastery, which reopened in 1990 and already has 120 monks. Daschoylin, which used to have 40 temples and 5,000 monks, is trying to rebuild itself and is very much a part of the community. Old people sit on benches outside, and children play on the grounds, which were used for a circus in the Communist days.
 Another spectacular monastery was converted by the Communists into the Religious Museum in Ulan Bator.
 Admission is about 5 cents, and the museum contains pleasant overgrown gardens and several temples with 17th-century bronze Buddhas, ornate ceilings and silk embroideries of humans being disemboweled and suffering other tortures.
 The former palace of the Bogd Gegeen, Mongolia's god king who died in 1924, is also a museum these days.
 But, in accordance with Buddhist beliefs, a man who is said to be a reincarnation of the Bogd Gegeen has been found in India and has been confirmed by the Dalai Lama. It is possible that he will return to Mongolia and reclaim his palace.
 The palace is a 30-minute walk from the center of Ulan Bator, so it is simplest to go by car. Taxis are extremely scarce, and expensive when found, so normally the procedure is simply to stand at the side of the road and flag down any car coming along.
 About half of all passenger cars moonlight as taxis, and if the car stops that means it's a gypsy cab. Fares are based on mileage and the apparent wealth of the passenger, but they are unlikely to exceed 25 cents.
 THE Bogd Gegeen's Palace contains dozens of stuffed animals -- including giraffes and polar bears -- that he collected, and also his ceremonial thrones and stagecoach. Best of all is his ger, which is about as lavish a tent as one could make, strewn with leopard skins and entered through a red and gold wooden door.
 The national museum, a dilapidated cement monolith in the center of the capital, charges 5 cents' admission. It has a fine collection of fossils (abysmally labeled) as well as several dinosoar skeletons from the Gobi desert.
 The museum also displays an extensive collection of stuffed wolves, panthers, bears and other animals; it is a better place to get a sense of Mongolian wildlife than the zoo, which has only a few animals -- and those are officially acknowledged to be suffering from malnutrition because of the country's financial crisis.
 From Ulan Bator there are three important destinations in the countryside. Karakorum, the ancient capital, is the most important historically and culturally and also the easiest to reach. It is less than a day's journey by hired car.
The Gobi Desert, reachable by plane, offers camel riding with the nomads and rich fossil hunting; only now are Western experts able to explore it systematically for dinosoar remains.
 The Altai mountains in the far west offer perhaps the most majestic scenery and lure occasional American hunters who pay up to $25,000 for the chance to bag a trophy argali mountain ram or even a rare (and supposedly protected) snow leopard. It is possible to drive up into the Altai mountains from the city of Hovd, which in theory has air connections to Ulan Bator.
 Several organized tours include visits to these destinations, and it may also be possible to arrange trips independently if you have a flexible schedule and considerable reservoirs of patience. One problem is that domestic air links in Mongolia are very unreliable, because of the economic crisis and fuel shortage.
 Even if flights are scheduled, there is no guarantee they will take off.
 And while buying an air ticket outside of Ulan Bator is relatively easy and cheap, beware: returning to the capital may not be so easy. You cannot book the return flight until you have landed at your destination, and you may find that all flights back are booked for weeks.
THE GLORY THAT WAS KARAKORUM
IN the grasslands of central Mongolia, miles and miles from nowhere, a stone turtle weighing several tons quietly contemplates the horses and occasional monks who wander the prairies. The turtle was erected in the 13th century to protect the site, which at that time was arguably the world's most important city.
 This is Karakorum, once the capital of the Mongol Empire, now returned to grassland. Genghis Khan apparently founded Karakorum as a military camp, but it was his son and heir, Ogedei, who presided over the construction and built the city walls in the year 1235.
 The pride of the city was the Palace of Universal Peace, surrounded by 64 columns and looking down on a fountain designed as a tree of silver by a master craftsman from Paris.
 These days not much remains of the old Mongol capital, which was destroyed in wars after the Mongols moved their headquarters to Beijing in the late 13th century. Then, after Buddhism arrived in Mongolia in the 16th century, some pious monks used the rubble as a quarry to build the nearby Erdenezuu Monastery beginning in 1586.
 The monastery survives, magnificently, and today is more of a reason to visit Karakorum than the stone turtle and faint ruins of the old Mongol capital. Surrounded by a brick wall with 108 stupas -- a figure that is reflected in the 108 worry beads that the monks carry -- the monastery complex stretches a quarter-mile in each direction. Some 1,000 monks lived and worshiped there until the Communists tried to eradicate religion in the late 1930's.
 Most of the monks were slaughtered in 1938, and virtually all of the temples in the complex were knocked down. Fortunately, one was spared and survives as a museum. Admission is 8 cents; it is open on Monday from 9 A.M. to 2 P.M., closed on Tuesday, and open Wednesday through Sunday from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M.
 Davaadorj, the director of the museum, is a historian who seems delighted to answer questions. He is the only one who offers reliable information, but you will probably need an interpreter, available from the tourist agency, as he speaks no English. Each year about 400 to 500 foreigners visit Karakorum, but until recently the great majority were Russians. The monks detest Mr. Davaadorj, because he wants to keep the temple as a museum. He, in turn, rails at the monks for moving in on the Erdenezuu Monastery and reclaiming parts of it without paying attention to their cultural and historical importance.
 "The monks are sitting on this place and destroying it," Mr. Davaadorj fulminated. "They should build their own monastery. On the third floor of the temple that they've taken over, priceless treasures are being destroyed by their oil lamps."
 The museum, built at the end of the 16th century, was put up without any nails -- and that apparently saved it, because the troops who tried to destroy it in 1938 couldn't figure out how to dismantle it and finally gave up. Set in a pleasant if overgrown garden, the museum is divided into three small buildings.
 In the building on the left is an eight-foot tall seated Buddha in gold, dominating the room. The Buddha is guarded by dragons, carved as if they were clambering the columns at the entrance.
 The risks of defying the gods are graphically illustrated in the entrance to the central temple, where a wooden guard, also eight feet tall, carries spears and swords and wears a helmet of skulls. He resembles something out of a Mongolian Stephen King novel, and the flayed carcass of a human sinner lies beneath his feet.
 A short walk from the museum is another small temple crammed with ancient religious scrolls, silks -- and, more gruesome, a bugle made of the leg bone of an 18-year-old woman. Mr. Davaadorj explained that it was good luck to appropriate the bones of a young woman. He hurriedly added that the luck held only if the woman died naturally, during childbirth.
 On the other side of the Erdenezuu Monastery is a large Tibetan-style monastery, the one that the monks have taken over without permission. Rebuilt in the 1950's, the monastery reflects the close links between Mongolian and Tibetan Buddhism: the Dalai Lama is the most revered figure for Mongols as well as Tibetans.
 The monks pray in the monastery but do not live there -- at least until the dispute over ownership is resolved -- so the best time to find them is the morning. They seem delighted to chat with visitors, if you have an interpreter, and range in age from about 12 to the late 80's; the older ones were monks here in the 1930's and survived the purges, returning to Erdenezuu in the last year or two.
 The monastery's interior is a festival of color, particularly the red of the monastic robes, but the monks' spirituality does not preclude entrepreneurship: They charge $5 a minute to take photographs inside, but this is relaxed Mongolian time and the single minute that I purchased covered five minutes on my watch.
 There is now a beautiful place to stay nearby, beside a river just a 15-minute drive from the monastery and the small modern town of Karakorum. The Orkhon Hotel is owned by the Bureau of Prisons and used to be a country retreat for the nation's top prison officials, but since 1990 it has accepted tourists as well. A big country manor with comfortable furniture and huge balconies, it looks out over the grasslands and the gers of herdsmen.
 A room is $25 per night per person, and on most nights the place is empty. But about twice a month it fills up with prison officials, so you might get a Mongolian to struggle with the telephones and try to make a reservation. The phone number is 131. The best thing about the hotel is that it has food available -- even imported soft drinks and French wine. The food is typically Mongolian, which is to say fatty and unappetizing to Western palates, but the meat comes from a nearby prison farm and therefore a steady supply is guaranteed. There is no choice on the meals, which run about $5 a person.
HEADING OFF FOR ULAN BATOR Getting There
 Visas are supposed to be obtained before leaving and are avilable from the Mongolian Embassy in Washington (2833 M Street N.W., Washington D.C. 20007; [202] 333 7117). In fact, airlines do not always check for a visa before allowing you to board a plane to Ulan Bator, and once you have landed you are unlikely to be expelled for lack of a visa.
 Tourists are supposed to make arrangements with Juulchin, the tourism corporation (addresses for all companies mentioned here are simply: Ulan Bator, Mongolia). The managing director, who has only one name, is Delgersuren, and his telephone number is 20163 (the country code for Mongolia is 976, the city code for Ulan Bator is 1). Juulchin charges a minimum of about $80 a day and is often inefficient, so it may be wise to try to get a visa without going through Juulchin.
 The only air connections are with cities in China and Russia, and it's important to book a round-trip ticket to avoid being stuck in Mongolia. If flights are full between Beijing and Ulan Bator, as they often are, try going through Hohhot, the capital of Chinese Inner Mongolia. The trans-Siberian railroad from Moscow to Beijing passes through Mongolia, but it is now mostly booked up for months.
Where to Stay
 The hotels are all likely to be clean, but not particularly comfortable or charming.
 The best place is Ulan Bator Hotel, a concrete box in the center of town; telex 79315. If you send enough telexes they may confirm a reservation. A single without bath is $32 a night; with bath $60; double with bath is $80. All with breakfast. Don't phone unless you speak Mongolian.
 The other place to stay is the Bayangol Hotel, not quite so central but a bit friendlier than the Ulan Bator. The phone number (no telex) is 28632 and there is a chance of getting an English-speaker. Room rates are about $2 cheaper per room than the Ulan. Some tiny private hotels have now opened for about $15 a night; ask at the train station.
What to Eat
 Because of the food shortage, almost the only place to eat is in the hotels, and even there the meals tend to be bad with no variety. It is common for hotels to offer only one dish (such as lamb schnitzel and rice) for weeks at a time. The food is loaded with fatty meat, mostly pork and lamb. There is no Mongolian word in popular usage for cholesterol, and a Mongolian friend answered my query about what happens to visiting vegetarians with a laconic, "They starve to death."
 You are unlikely to see a fruit the whole time you are in Mongolia. Wine, beer and some soft drinks are available in Ulan Bator, and the local vodka is ubiquitous. Health problems are not as much of a concern to travelers as in many developing countries, but it is still best to drink only boiled water or bottled drinks and to be careful about what you eat. (One exception: when visiting a ger, you must out of politeness drink fermented mare's milk from an old bowl that may look as if it has not been thoroughly cleaned since the days of the Mongol empire.)
 The hotel restaurants charge in tugrik, with a meal about 30 cents each; the same meal, served more quickly and still warm when it reaches you, is $4 a person in the hard-currency restaurant of the Ulan Bator Hotel. You are unlikely to see fruit in Mongolia.
What to Take
 Take absolutely everything you might need: sunscreen and chapstick (because of the fierce sun and high altitudes), any medications, a canteen, toiletries, film and food, if you like variety. Summer can be chilly in the evenings, but winter isn't nearly as bad as people expect (not counting the times when the electricity goes off, as it regularly does in winter).
 Credit cards are virtually useless, but traveler's checks can be exchanged for tugrik -- and, at hotels, even converted into American cash, which is much more useful. Dollars come in very handy in Mongolia, but no one has change, so take a bundle of 100 one-dollar bills as well as larger bills. American coins are also useful, because unless you pay exact prices you get your change in bubble gum or postcards. At the Ulan Bator Hotel, for example, a can of soda pop is costs $1.10; unless you have a dollar bill and a dime, you must surrender at least $2.
Getting a Guide
 If you are not part of a tour, I strongly recommend hiring a guide, largely because of the language difficulties. The Bureau of Translators, 28089 (a Spanish-speaker answers the phone and can summon an English speaker), can arrange an interpreter-guide for $25 a day plus any expenses. The interpreter, in turn, can probably arrange for a car to go on a trip outside Ulan Bator. Hiring a car and driver for a two-day round-trip excursion to Karakorum would cost about $50 if done this way; officially, through the tourism agency, it would cost about $400 in a Japanese vehicle. The drive to Karakorum takes five hours in a good car, and up to twice as long in the wrecks that are still common on the roads in Mongolia. Try to get a driver who knows the route and has some sense of how he is going to refill the gas tank for the return journey. Most gas stations in Mongolia say they are out of gas, although bribes can accomplish wonders.
ARRANGING TO MAKE A VISIT
 The following can help with either individual or group travel arrangements:
 Academic Travel Abroad, 3210 Grace Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007; (202) 333-3355. Organizes one or two groups a year. This year a three-week trip to Mongolia and the Siberian Far East, including three days on the Trans-Siberian Express, cost $6,480. A trip for next year is scheduled from Aug. 29 to Sept. 19; no price has been determined.
 Australia Mongolia Society, Box 1091, Collingwood, Victoria 3066, Australia (61-3) 578-2533, takes bookings from all over the world and offers an excellent itinerary.
 Gabriel Lafitte, president of the society, knows Mongolia well and often leads the tours.
 Chinasmith, 324 West 42d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036; (212) 239-2410 or (800) 872-4462. Individual and custom arrangements; has been organizing trips to Mongolia for about seven years.
 General Tours, 245 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10016; (212) 685-1800 or (800) 221-2216. "The Exotica" visits Russia, Kazakhstan, Siberia and Mongolia (six days, with visits to Ulan Bator, Karakorum and the Gobi). This year the 22-day tour cost from $4,599 to $4,799, depending on the time of year. A similar tour is planned for next year.
 Inner Asia Expeditions, 2627 Lombard Street, San Francisco, Calif. 94123; (415) 922-0448 or (800) 777-8183. The company, which caters to individuals and groups, organizes about five trips a year. One of this year's main offerings, "Courts of the Khans," started in Beijing, then went to Ulan Bator, Khujirt and Karakorum, to yurt camps in the south Gobi, then to Russia and back to Beijing. The 20-day tour cost $4,250.
 Japan and Orient Tours, 3131 Camino del Rio North, San Diego, Calif. 92108; (619) 282 3131. Has been packaging tours to Mongolia for individuals for three years.
 Klineburger Worldwide Travel, 3627 First Avenue South, Seattle, Wash. 98134; (206) 343-9699. Sending groups and individuals to Mongolia since the late 1960's, the organization has dozens of programs a year. A two-week tour, with a week in China, costs from $3,900 with air fare from the West Coast. A 14-day hunting trip for elk is $5,400.
 Russian Travel Bureau, 225 East 44th Street, New York, N.Y. 10017; (212) 986-1500 or (800) 847-1800 outside New York State. This year the company sent out five groups on its 19-day Trans-Siberian Railroad Plus Mongolia Adventure ($3,900), including three to four nights in Mongolia. No dates or prices have been set for next year.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 20, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A map on Sept. 20 with an article about Mongolia misidentified a lake north of Ulan Bator. It is Lake Baikal, not Lake Balkhash.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rock concert at the edge of Sukhbatar Square, Ulan Bator. A woman prays before Buddhist images at Ganden Monastery. A woman and child herd sheep outside Karakorum. A monk of the Erdenezuu Monastery, in background. (pg. 14); Stone turtle guarding the site of Karakorum dates from 13th century. (pg. 18)(Photographs by Nicholas D. Kristof)
 
Map of Mongolia showing location of Ulan Bator. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MONGOLIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); CHINA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MONGOLIA MONGOLIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); CHINA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS RELIGION (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (52%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D GENGHIS KHAN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1992



653 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 2; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1859 words

HEADLINE: Long Island Q&A: Susan Levy;
Why a Woman Became a Contractor

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
FOR a woman who grew up in in Baldwin Harbor with five brothers who played baseball and football instead of with dolls and at the age of 18 joined the Army, a career in a traditionally male-dominated industry was logical.
When the woman, Susan Levy, started her subcontracting business 12 years ago, she was one of a few women in the construction industry. Her saw-cutting company, Femi-9, opened with a small capital investment and one employee in an office in Lindenhurst. It has grown into a business specializing in saw cutting, milling and grooving, processes that are used to repave or resurface roads and bridges, with more than $1 million worth of equipment. Ms. Levy now employs seven full-time operating engineers, including her husband, as well as seasonal workers from March through November. 
 After a difficult 1991, Ms. Levy has won bids for work on the Tappan Zee Bridge and at several sites throughout Nassau County.
She is also the treasurer of the National Association for Women in Construction and was one founder of its Long Island chapter in 1983. She is the lone woman to be elected to the board of the Nassau-Suffolk Contractors Association.
Last week at the convention of the National Association for Women in Construction in Orlando, Fla., Bridgestone Tires honored Ms. Levy with its first Race to the Top award, a program to recognize businesswomen's achievements.
Q. How did you become interested in the construction industry?
A. After graduating from high school in 1967, I decided to join the Army. The truth was I wanted to get away from home and was unaware of any financial aid that would have helped me go to college. At first I wanted to join the Navy. But they told me I had to know how to swim, and I didn't. So I decided on the Army.
After I came home in 1969 I worked at a few different jobs and finally took a job with an equipment-leasing company. It was there I first learned about construction equipment. I began to notice that often people who would call to request certain types of rental equipment would also ask if we did that kind of work. I saw that there was especially a need for people to do saw cutting, cutting out an area on a road or bridge in order to replace it with a patch or filler before resurfacing.
I started calling manufacturers of saws, toured a diamond-blade manufacturing plant in Texas, did a lot of reading and asked a lot of questions. I had contacts from working at the leasing company.
So when I found a qualified person who could run a concrete saw I decided it was the right time to start my own company. I made up business cards and sent them to everyone I could think of with a note asking for an opportunity to bid on their next job.
Q. What is the significance of your company's name?
A. I wanted a name that would let people know there was a female at the helm. First I thought of the name Ms. Construction, but that name was taken. Then my attorney suggested the name Feminine, and I liked the play on words, spelling it with a hyphen, Femi-9. It has been the best conversation starter that I could have ever dreamed of.
Q. Have you faced any barriers to success as a women in the construction industry?
A. The biggest barrier to success in the construction field was not being taken seriously. The stereotypical attitude of my male counterparts that women belonged in the home or in "girl" jobs like teaching and nursing -- anywhere but in the construction industry -- required a great deal of patience on my part. Many people assumed I was a front for someone else. The realization that their attitudes were many years in the making and would not be changed overnight, gave me the patience and strength to persevere. I knew I needed to get a foot in the door in order to prove my capabilities, and that meant I had to develop a business strategy and be patient, if I wanted to succeed.
Sometimes my selling point was having the lowest prices, but my performance followed to develop my reputation in the field.
Q. Have you experienced or witnessed any incident involving sexual harassment on the job?
A. I personally have never experienced it, but I do know that it exists. I've seen other women subjected to inappropriate comments and sensitive situations. I think the way to put an end to some of it is not to make a big deal of it. Of course if someone is blatantly sexually harassed, you can't ignore it. There's a time and place to put a stop to it. But there are some lines that should be drawn. When you're working on a job site and you're one female out of maybe 50 men, common slang is to be expected and is better to be ignored unless personally directed.
I've seen two instances that were almost identical but were handled very differently. One women was climbing up onto a piece of equipment, and the man behind her patted her on the backside. She turned around and gave him a look, and he said innocently, "I'm just helping." To which she answered, "Thanks a lot," and proceeded on. The other woman who was pushed from behind turned around and said: "I'm going to have you brought up on charges. You can't touch me like that." The situation escalated into a major incident, and in this case the man probably didn't mean anything. The woman's reaction was most likely precipitated by other unpleasant experiences. I think that the appropriate response in a sensitive situation really depends on the people involved and the manner in which it occurs.
Q. How did a woman who didn't know what "milling" was, become a specialist in the field?
A. Most of my initial knowledge came from equipment manufacturers. When I first thought about expanding my company to including milling and not being a mechanic, I really had no idea what milling actually was. Milling and grooving are extensions of saw cutting, just done with different kinds of machines.
There are no books that can teach you how to become a milling contractor. I've learned most of the details as I went along, making a lot of mistakes, as everybody does. When I started out I was so anxious to get a job that sometimes I forgot to include a price in my bid that should have been incorporated and I ended up barely making ends meet instead of making a profit. Most of my learning has been by trial and error.
Q. What does it take to be a successful entrepreneur?
A. The most important thing is to have a belief in yourself that you can do it. But if that was all it took you'd see a lot more entrepreneurs and fewer failures. It also takes a game plan. You need to do your homework, to build a network of supports for contacts, to have sources you can go to for all your needs. You must do a lot of research and know your product or service, and I mean know it well. And in today's economy it's also important that an entrepreneur be able to deal with a lot of stress!
Q. How has the recession affected the construction industry, and Femi-9?
A. In the Northeast we've been especially hard hit by the recession; 1991 was the first year since I went into business that I didn't show any growth. The work just wasn't there. I was able to keep my full-time employees but had to cut back on seasonal workers. This year I've been trying to operate with fewer people, without compromising on the work, in order to try to get a little ahead of the game.
Q. What is the outlook for the construction industry on Long Island and in the New York metropolitan region?
A. Despite current economic trends, the construction industry is predicted to grow at a rate of 200,000 jobs annually over the next decade. Other parts of the country haven't experienced a decline like we have in the Northeast. But economists say that it will pick up. I've seen it already over the last few months in the New York area, so I believe that the prognosis is hopeful.
Some experts say that construction is the backbone of the economy, because everything relates to it and construction touches everything in some way. We're all looking forward to better times.
Q. How will the role of women in the industry change?
A. According to the United States Census Bureau 42 percent of the new jobs in construction will be held by women. Women entrepreneurs are behind many of the new businesses responsible for this growth. With women entering the construction field at all levels, it is women who will play a major role in the shape and scope of this industry, gaining more power with each increase of women's participation. The Women's Business Ownership Act of 1988 paved the way for change with the establishment of the National Women's Business Council, which submits annual policy recommendations to the White House and Congress for supporting women-owned businesses, including construction businesses.
Q. What does the Race to the Top award mean to you?
A. I'm extremely proud of this national award given by a major corporation that sees the need to recognize the achievements of women. That in itself is commendable. Women have had a tough time in business fields, and there's been a lot of gender discrimination. We have accomplished so much in recent years, and I'd like to think of myself as representing all of the women achievers in construction.
Q. You have also been active in charitable causes. What motivated you to become so involved in those efforts?
A. I think everybody has to give something back. Since I don't have a lot of spare time, this is one way I can do something to give of myself. I've done a great deal of fund raising for the American Cancer Society, the Red Cross and the American Heart Association. As an Army veteran, my time went to the Red Cross as an active volunteer during the Desert Storm conflict, doing whatever I could.
Often it is the smaller organizations that require more active participation, because they are less well known. I've found that to be the case with my latest priority, the Brighter Tomorrows Shelter in Suffolk County, for battered and abused women and children. As an adult survivor of an abusive childhood environment, it has meant a lot to me that there is a safe place where women and children can go. Years ago women didn't know of these alternatives.
I've spent time making repairs on the shelter home and property, collecting toys and clothes, raising money from dinner-dances and auctions. Last year I made arrangements for Santa Claus to visit the shelter at Christmas to distribute gifts to the women and children.
Q. What are your plans and goals for the future?
A. I would like to expand my firm's operations to include airport-runway grooving, which would require a major purchase of additional specialty equipment. I'd also like to develop more cost-effective and innovative methods to improve my grooving and milling operations.
My long-term goal is to expand the scope of our market to include many or all of the Eastern Seaboard states. My personal goal is to become the president of the National Association for Women in Construction within the next five years. As more women enter the construction industry, the need for a support group is growing.
 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Levy, owner of Femi-9, a company specializing in processes that are used to repave roads and bridges. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (55%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEMI-9 (CO) BRIDGESTONE CORP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEMI-9 (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; WOMEN WOMEN (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BASEBALL (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); LEASING INDUSTRY (76%); EQUIPMENT FINANCING (76%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (74%); MEN (72%); SEASONAL WORKERS (70%); BOARD CHANGES (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: SASLOW, LINDA; LEVY, SUSAN SUSAN LEVY (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



654 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 48; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: UNIVERSITY PRESSES;
Neither Plain Nor Simple

BYLINE: By A. G. Mojtabai; A. G. Mojtabai is writer in residence at the University of Tulsa and the author of several books, including "Blessed Assurance: At Home With the Bomb in Amarillo, Texas" and the novel "Ordinary Time."

 BODY:

AFTER THE FIRE
The Destruction of the Lancaster County Amish.
By Randy-Michael Testa.
Illustrated by Susie Riehl.
187 pp. Hanover, N.H.:
University Press of New England. $19.95. 
 CONSIDER this: A visitor to Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, complains to the state police about an Amish farmer who refuses to halt his plowing to pose for a photograph standing next to her husband. The woman is unable to conceive of the farmer in his quaint costume, plying his antiquated farm implements, as anything but part of some sort of historical reconstruction rigged up for the benefit of tourists like herself. Her indignation, so rich with cultural presumption, would be funny -- if the joke weren't on us.
This episode is but one of many telling interactions between Amish and "English" (the Amish name for non-Amish Americans) recounted in Randy-Michael Testa's provocative first book, "After the Fire." The author is a teacher, writer and editor in Cambridge, Mass. What started out as field notes for his Harvard University doctoral dissertation (concerning education in a moral community) has emerged as quite another -- quite its own -- thing. His story of a summer spent living and helping out on the farm of an Old Order Amish family in 1988 has provided the occasion for a concomitant critique of mainstream American society.
The book is a testimonial, the narrative of a young man's journey to a place only 40 miles from his parental home, "across a galaxy of custom and sensibility where nothing I know is apt or fitting," there to learn, and unlearn, many things. It is also a call to reflection and action, for it is Mr. Testa's contention that the Amish in Lancaster County "are being squeezed out one family at a time by a changing infrastructure mobilizing regulation, ordinance, money and callousness disguised as concern for the economy." The threat is not only external. "Some Amish," the author says, "have chosen to squeeze themselves out of their society."
Today, managed and unmanaged economic growth, in the form of strip housing, shopping centers, industrial parks and factory outlets, constitutes a growing blight on what the Amish have helped make one of the leading dairy farming counties in the nation and one of the prime garden spots of the world. Of particular, currently pressing interest is a proposal to turn 80 acres of Amish homeland into a 100-home development called the Meadows in an area the Amish have farmed for more than two centuries. It is worth noting that land developers are not solely responsible for the Meadows project; the instigator, and owner of the land, is himself Mennonite, formerly Amish.
The Amish way of life, as Mr. Testa emphasizes, is not a historical curiosity but a vibrant, if endangered, present reality. Living without electricity, traveling in horse-drawn buggies at 12 miles an hour, the Old Order Amish are, and mean to be, confounding witnesses to a life of simplicity and deliberate limitation. Theirs is not a "life style" to be bought into, and shed, at whim. It is a faith commitment that integrates every aspect of life. In the author's words: "The way they eat is the way they farm is the way they think is the way they behave with their neighbors. . . . Faith is the glue that joins these things, the blessed tie that binds."
The story of Mr. Testa's journey to the Amish opens with a backward glance at his experience teaching third grade at a private school in Denver. The incoherence of much contemporary secular education is sharply recalled: "I had taught over 120 children how to multiply up to nine, to read paperback accounts of flying saucers and the Loch Ness monster, and to sing 'O Tannenbaum' " for the Christmas pageant. (Meanwhile, the family lives of his students were disintegrating with downturns in the oil economy.) Subsequent experience as a teaching assistant for a course in moral reasoning at Harvard supplied more evidence of fragmentation: elegant reasoners often acted shabbily. The author also noticed this disparity in himself.
Given such a background, Mr. Testa's attraction to the seamless integration of piety and practice in Amish life is readily understandable. It is the author's conviction, sharpening as the summer wears on, that if the Amish are driven out, "if [their] way of life falters, we all fall down. We need [them] to point out how far we have strayed."
"After the Fire" does not purport to be a full or balanced portrait of Amish life. Even so, a brief mention of the history of the Amish, tracing their spiritual ancestry from the 16th-century Ana baptist movement, would not have been amiss. The story of the separation of Amish from Mennonite would have cast helpful illumination on the character of both communities. The emphasis on purity is more extreme in the Amish fellowship, a purity reinforced through painful, embittering practices of excommunication and social shunning. The boundaries within which gentleness, harmony and peace prevail are defined by fierce exclusions. There is a price to be paid for purity.
Separation from worldly entanglements carried out with the typically rigorous consistency of the Amish means that there is often no pathway for effecting needed change beyond the enclave of their own faith community, even when their way of life is threatened. Faced with protracted conflict, the Amish pull up stakes and move out. The author notes this tendency but does not reflect on it. A fuller reflection would not diminish the vital lessons the Amish have to teach us (in social cohesion, land stewardship, moral economy and more), but it would deepen their credibility for readers whose lives are not plain and simple.
"After the Fire" is several shades darker than Sue Bender's 1989 account of a similar sojourn, the best-selling "Plain and Simple: A Woman's Journey to the Amish." In retrospect, that earlier portrait of two contrasting ways of life let us off lightly; Ms. Bender's narrative was charming and comfortable throughout. "After the Fire" is neither. There's no way it could be. Mr. Testa is focused on our urgent need for reform. His book is driven not simply by his own spiritual hunger but by his vision -- a compelling one -- of widespread spiritual famine in a land of material glut.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Amish buggy in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AFTER THE FIRE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY PRESS OF NEW ENGLAND (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); ORDINANCES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); DAIRY FARMING (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (60%); LAND SUBDIVISION (60%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: MOJTABAI, A G; TESTA, RANDY-MICHAEL RANDY-MICHAEL TESTA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



655 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 5; Page 27; Column 3; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2056 words

HEADLINE: The Flight of the Raptors

BYLINE: By DYAN ZASLOWSKY; DYAN ZASLOWSKY is writing a biography of the conservationist Rosalie Edge.

 BODY:
HAWKS and eagles have been migrating for eons along the stony spine of the Kittatinny Ridge in northeastern Pennsylvania. But it is only since 1934, when a section of the rocks became a bird refuge, that people have gone there to marvel.
Every year more than 50,000 people are drawn to Hawk Mountain Sanctuary, a 2,200-acre private nature preserve in a dot of a town called Kempton, about an hour north of Allentown. The sanctuary is on a thickly wooded 1,300-foot-high promontory above the farmlands of the Pennsylvania Dutch. 
 This coming autumnal migration, which runs Aug. 15 to Dec. 15, is particularly notable because sometime during the season, the sacntuary will count its millionth bird of prey since it started keeping records in 1934. Birds arrive in their greatest numbers when the foliage turns, offering two excuses for a visit in the fall. Hawk watchers typically head for the exposed sandstone spine of the sanctuary's North or South Lookouts, and settle for the day on the jumbled, stony couches with their binoculars, books, sketch pads, picnics and blankets. An impromptu assembly can number 1,000 on a bright, warm weekend in October. All face the stage, which is what the sky becomes when the birds are flying.
On my first visit to Hawk Mountain I was struck by the crowd's reverence for the birds as much as by the birds themselves. North Lookout was positively serene despite the number of people who had gathered. The crowd -- many of them Mennonites from the nearby farming communities, judging by their apparel -- talked in whispers if at all.
Throughout the day one of the Hawk Mountain guides, or "counters" as they are known, calmly narrated the changing scene. "Sharpie coming up on the right!" one counter announced, pivoting in the direction of the sharp-shinned hawk. The counter acknowledged the arrival of a chimney swift -- "a cigar with wings," as she called it. At the same moment an osprey rose higher in our sphere of vision, backlit by the sun. Binoculars tilted upward, and the congregants murmured approval.
Such worshipful human behavior is one remarkable indication of how the attitude towards hawks and eagles has changed; it was hunters, at the end of the 19th century, who first discovered the advantages of Hawk Mountain's location. With their pump guns and automatics they blasted hawks and eagles out of the sky as they flew into firing range. It was a civic duty to do this. Wishing to eradicate predatory birds from the face of the Keystone State if not the earth, the Pennsylvania Game Commission at one point even paid a $5 bounty for each dead goshawk.
Hawks of all kinds were despised because they preyed upon smaller birds and, now and then, hens and chicks. Popular folk wisdom held that bald eagles attacked lambs and untended infants and carried them off to their aeries to devour. Thousands of birds both wounded and dead were left to rot where they dropped.
The rocks on this section of the Kittatinny Ridge fell silent in the autumn of 1934, when an ardent bird lover named Rosalie Edge wrested the high killing ground from a failing tombstone company and established the first hawk sanctuary in the world.
Edge, who earlier in life had been a New York suffragist and socialite, was hailed in her middle age as "the only woman in conservation." Her one-woman Emergency Conservation Committee successfully agitated for numerous environmental reforms. Edge did manage to change the local conduct toward hawks; she hired an armed caretaker named Maurice Broun, who felt about hawk protection as she did, and together they rigorously enforced the new Kitattinny code: watch, don't shoot. Edge became the birds' outspoken champion, and led national efforts to educate the public about their right to exist. The ridge was transformed into what Edge called "a citadel of peace." The transformation was an economic one as well. Hawk-related tourism has replaced hawk hunting as a prime source of Schuykill (pronounced SKOOL-kil) County's income.
The land Edge optioned to buy for her sanctuary had been skinned of its timber, but she let nature resume its course, and today Hawk Mountain is dense with second-growth chestnut oaks, and an understory of red maples, sassafras, sweet gums and witch hazel, brilliant in autumn.
Hawk Mountain is known as one of the best natural vantage points in the world from which to see large numbers of birds of prey. From the sanctuary's North and South Lookouts visitors can see 20 of North America's 30 raptorial species, including bald eagles, golden eagles, osprey, peregrine falcons, broad-winged hawks and kestrels.
During my two-day visit in early October, 11 species were sighted -- 10 peregrine falcons and more than 120 osprey and 20 vultures. October is a month of quantity as well as diversity; a week after my visit Cooper's hawks, sharp-shins, kestrels and others were streaking by at a rate of 150 an hour, riding the brisk currents of west-northwest winds that presage good hawk watching.
Hawk Mountain's counters (both volunteers and paid staff) assiduously track the number and species of birds and the weather conditions -- there is even a phone line to find out about the preceding day's highlights. Since Hawk Mountain's inception not a single day has passed when birds -- raptors and others -- were not tallied, and as a result the sanctuary supplies ornithologists with the longest-running record of raptor migration patterns in the world.
Rachel Carson found Hawk Mountain's data extremely useful when she was conducting her research for "Silent Spring," and she frequented the lookouts.
The counters are a blessing to fledgling bird watchers. Their friendly expertise is dispensed to anyone who doesn't know a peregrine from a pigeon, and as one of the nation's top bird education centers, Hawk Mountain is a good place to start learning the difference.
Ornithologists believe that hawks migrating from Eastern Canada and New England fly over the Kittatinny Ridge because they are trying to conserve their energy by supplementing their wing power with the updrafts from the ridge, oriented in the same direction the birds are heading on their trip to South America.
Broad-winged hawks take advantage of thermals, which are bubbles of warm air that rise as cooler mountain air mixes in from below. Flying at a speed of 40 miles an hour the hawks can cover about 250 miles on a good day.
At Hawk Mountain flocks of broad-winged hawks typically arrive in September, when they can be seen churning within a single thermal, looking as though the birds are boiling in a kettle. In fact, when hawks appear in this sort of configuration they are said to be kettling. Even for nonbirders, hawks are thrilling to watch because of their dramatic flights. The chance to see sky-kettles boiling with hundreds of hawks is something watchers hope for when they spend a day at the lookouts. And yet, sighting a solitary immature bald eagle, as I did, can be quite exhilarating as well.
Hawk Mountain Sanctuary includes about eight miles of hiking trails that wind through the woods up toward lush brows of rhodedendrons at several scenic outcrops. A few minutes from the parking lot, one trail up to the Lookout is accessible to the handicapped. All other trails, some of which connect with the Appalachian Trail, are rocky but easy enough for children to negotiate.
From the South Lookout you can see a curious geologic formation called the River of Rocks, a milelong gash of boulders left by the last ice age. Those who get restless just sitting at the lookout can always hike down to it.
Outside the Visitors Center is an outdoor exhibit of how to landscape to encourage wildlife and a sculpture of a golden eagle, once thought to be extinct in the region. The center itself features a bookstore, murals explaining the relationship between birds and winds and the predator-prey cycle and two windows from which visitors can see birds at feeding areas .
The sanctuary has a staff of 14, and is supported by an association of 8,500 members nationwide.
While Hawk Mountain's efforts concentrate on birds of prey, it has also preserved a remnant of Colonial history, in the form of a white stone cottage called Schaumboch's, today a private residence for sanctuary staff members. Built shortly before the Revolutionary War as an unprotected outpost in hostile Delaware Indian country, the cottage stood practically at the edge of the world as then known by the settlers. In the mid-1800's Schaumboch's became an important stop for wayfarers on the rough mountain road between Drehersville and Eckville. The building is named for its most sinister occupant, a man reputed to have murdered and robbed at least 20 travelers after plying them with his homemade whisky. Residents attest to so many paranormal incidents that the notion that the house and maybe the ridge is haunted is very much alive.
The possibility of ghosts impressed me one moonless midnight when I was working alone in the sanctuary's archives. As I stumbled through the black woods to my car I heard a long, low, lugubrious wail.
It might have been the spirit of one of Schaumboch's victims. I prefer to believe it was a great horned owl, proclaiming this place his own.
 
 
 
STOPS FOR HAWK WATCHERS
Although mid-October is the best time to visit Hawk Mountain to see hawks and autumn foliage, the sanctuary is open year round. If you are interested in seeing a specific species, contact the sanctuary to find out when its arrival is expected: Hawk Mountain Sanctuary, Route 2, Box 191, Kempton, Pa. 19529; (215) 756-6961. The nearest exit from I-78 is Lenhartsville for those traveling east and Route 61 North for those traveling west. Binoculars are essential. The visitors center is open daily 9 to 5; trails are open dawn to dusk. Admission is $3, $1.50 for children 6 to 12.
 
Where to Stay
 All accommodations mentioned are within a short drive of Hawk Mountain. They are simple, clean, and offer few amenities. Particularly on autumn weekends, reservations are necessary. Allentown, an hour away from Hawk Mountain, offers greater selection of lodgings. You can request a list of accommodations from Hawk Mountain Sanctuary.
Union House Bed & Breakfast, Broad and Central Streets, Port Clinton, Pa. 19549, (215) 562-4076, is about five miles to the southwest of the sanctuary. Its seven bedrooms are furnished with antiques, rope beds and handmade quilts, share two bathrooms. A room is $95 a night for two, full breakfast included. Dinner and lunch are also served, featuring steak, lobster, home-made crabcakes; meals are $7.95 to $23.95.
Glasbern, Pack House Road, RD 1, Box 250, Fogelsville, Pa. 18051, (215)285-4723), about 20 miles southeast of the sanctuary, is a restored barn, with 23 rooms with private baths, and, in some, whirlpool and fireplace. Better rooms are in separate buildings. Doubles are $100 to $200 on weekends, and $95 and $145 on weekdays, full breakfast included. Dinner is $35 to $40, with wine.
The Hawk Mountain Inn, Box 186, Kempton, Pa. 19529, (215) 756-4224) 10 miles east of the sanctuary, is a bed and breakfast establishment. Eight rooms with private bath breakfast, $65 to $95 a night. Dinner entrees are $16-$19.
Fort Motel, Route 61, Orwigsburg, Pa. 17961, (717) 366-2091, is about a 10-minute drive to the west. The 12 rooms, $42 for two, all have private baths.
Top Motel, 1030 Krumsville Road, Lenhartsville, Pa. 19534, (215) 756-6021, is also about 12 miles to the southeast. Eleven rooms, private baths, $32 a night for two.
 
Where to Eat
 There are no restaurants or snack bars at Hawk Mountain Sanctuary, so visitors must bring their own provisions or drive about 20 minutes to a restaurant. Local fare tends to be good, inexpensive and never exotic.
Clauser's Mini Market, (717) 366-1628, intersection of Routes 895 and 61 in Molino, prepares sandwiches visitors can take to sanctuary lookouts.
Smith's Country Inn, (717) 943-2785, near the intersection of Routes 443 and 895 in New Ringgold, is a large stone house originally built as a stagecoach stop in 1769, now popular for steaks and fish. Meals are $8 to 20.
Villa Montagna, Route 61, in Orwigsburg, (717) 366-1914, serves Italian specialities. Entrees are $12 and up.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kittatinny Ridge is on migration route of hawks and other birds of prey, like the turkey vulture, shown in inset. (Jonathan Atkin for The New York Times)(pg. 27)
 
Drawing of young golden eagle. (Hawk Mountain Sanctuary)(pg. 28)
 
Map of Pennsylvania showing location of Hawk Mountain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HAWK MOUNTAIN SANCTUARY ASSOCIATION (91%); HAWK MOUNTAIN SANCTUARY ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAWK MOUNTAIN SANCTUARY ASSOCIATION (91%); HAWK MOUNTAIN SANCTUARY ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAWK MOUNTAIN SANCTUARY (KEMPTON, PA); KEMPTON (PA) UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BIRDS BIRDS (91%); MOUNTAINS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (68%); 

PERSON: ZASLOWSKY, DYAN ROSALIE EDGE (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



656 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 3533 words

HEADLINE: The Western Historians: Don't Fence Them In

BYLINE: By Alan Brinkley; Alan Brinkley's books include "Voices of Protest: Huey Long, Father Coughlin and the Great Depression." He is a professor of history at Columbia.

 BODY:
FROM the 1930's to the 1950's, Walter Prescott Webb was one of the most eminent historians of the American West. So it came as something of a surprise to his many admirers when, after spending a year teaching in England, he published an essay in Harper's Magazine in 1957 that seemed to repudiate much of his own life's work. The West, he complained, was an unpromising and unrewarding field of study. "What," he asked, "is the biographer going to do for a region that has so few men of distinction? What is the historian going to do with a country almost without chronology or important battles or great victories? . . . How can he make a thick history out of such thin material?"
Webb's lament was evidence of how far Western American history had fallen in the 1950's from the position of eminence it had occupied just 20 years before. Beginning with Frederick Jackson Turner's famous 1893 essay, "The Significance of the Frontier in American History," and continuing until at least the early 1940's, the settlement of the West had served as a paradigm for the writing of American history as a whole. Turner's "frontier thesis" had identified a process -- "the existence of an area of free land, its continuous recession, and the advance of American settlement westward" -- that seemed to explain American development -- and American democracy -- in the 18th and 19th centuries. 
 But after World War II, as historians turned to other, less optimistically progressive interpretations of the American past, the Turner thesis went into a broad retreat, and with it the history of the region it had done so much to promote. Webb's essay seemed to acknowledge the end of an era.
Were Webb alive today, however, he would discover a scholarly landscape radically different from the one he described in 1957. Western American history, transformed by a new generation of energetic revisionist scholars, is staging a vigorous and important revival. The appearance within the last year of several important books by leaders of the self-proclaimed "new Western history" (university presses have played a major role in promoting these revisionist studies, publishing many of the most influential texts) provides an opportunity to assess both the bold claims those working in the field are now making and the harsh criticisms they have begun to receive.
FEW groups of scholars have been more energetic in explaining and promoting themselves than the new Western historians, as two recent anthologies, "Trails: Toward a New Western History," and "Under an Open Sky: Rethinking America's Western Past," suggest. These collections bring together reflections on the state of the field by most of the leading figures within it. There is considerable disagreement among them, to be sure. But almost all agree -- some jubilantly, some ambivalently -- that the history of the American West will never look the same.
Central to almost all descriptions of the new history is an obligatory, almost ritualistic repudiation of Frederick Jackson Turner. The "frontier thesis" may long ago have lost its allure in other areas of American history, but it retains a perverse hold on students of the West. Turner, who was born in the frontier town of Portage, Wis., in 1861, and who taught history at the University of Wisconsin and Harvard University, was in effect the founder of Western historical studies. He is, the revisionist historians believe, the idol who must be toppled if the field is to revive and grow. The new historians fault Turner (and his latter-day disciples) for many things, but most of all for what they consider his ethnocentrism, his triumphalism, his emphasis on individualism and his insistence that Western history as a distinct field of study ends in 1890. The essence of the new Western history lies in its effort to challenge the Turnerians on each of those points.
Where Turner saw the 19th-century West as free land awaiting the expansion of Anglo-American settlement and American democracy, the new scholars reject the concept of a frontier altogether (and go to considerable lengths to avoid using the word). They emphasize, instead, the elaborate and highly developed civilizations (Native American, Hispanic, mixed-blood or "metis" and others) that already existed in the region.
In their view, white English-speaking Americans did not so much settle the West as conquer it. That conquest, moreover, was never complete. Anglo-Americans in the West continue to share the region not only with the Indians who preceded them there, but also with the African-Americans, Asians, Latin Americans and others who flowed into the West at the same time they did. Western history, the new scholars maintain, is a process of cultural convergence, a constant competition and interaction -- economic, political, cultural, and linguistic -- among diverse peoples.
The Turnerian West was a place of heroism, triumph and above all progress, a place where Anglo-Americans spread democracy and civilization into untamed lands. The West the new historians describe is a much less happy place -- a land in which bravery and success coexist with oppression, greed and failure; in which decaying ghost towns, bleak Indian reservations, impoverished barrios and ecologically devastated landscapes are as characteristic of Western development as great ranches, rich farms and prosperous cities.
TO Turner and his disciples, the 19th-century West was a place where rugged individualism flourished and replenished American democracy. To the new scholars, Western individualism is a self-serving myth. They argue that the region was always inextricably tied to a national and international capitalist economy; indeed, the only thing that sustained Anglo-American settlement of the West was the demand in other places for its natural resources. Western "pioneers" were never self-sufficient. They depended on Government-subsidized railroads for access to markets, Federal troops for protection from Indians, and (later) Government-funded dams and canals for irrigating their fields and sustaining their towns.
And while Turner defined the West as a process of settlement that came to an end with the "closing of the frontier" in the late 19th century, the new historians see the West as a region. Its history does not end in 1890. It continues into our own time.
Anyone looking for a clear indication of what the new Western history actually looks like (as opposed to how its champions define themselves theoretically) would do well to begin with Richard White's " 'It's Your Misfortune and None of My Own,' " an excellent new synthesis of Western history designed for the textbook market. That market has been dominated for years by one of the monuments of the Turnerian West: "Westward Expansion," by Turner's biographer and indefatigable disciple Ray Allen Billington. (It was recently revised by Martin Ridge.) Mr. White has launched a formidable challenge to it. He is a lively, graceful writer (which by itself makes this an unusual textbook), and he tells a story very different from the traditional picture of the progress of Anglo-American civilization, but no less compelling.
Mr. White emphasizes the complicated interactions among the many peoples of the West, not just the seemingly inevitable triumph of English-speaking whites. He challenges the heavily masculine bias of traditional Western history and makes women (and gender relations) central to the story, illuminating the ways in which the harsh realities of frontier life provided opportunities for women to exert influence far beyond the home.
 He stresses the continual and decisive involvement of the Federal Government in almost every area of Western development. He tells the story of harsh battles over land, water, language and political power -- battles that were not confined to (and did not end with) the defeat of the Western tribes. He devotes nearly half his book to the 20th century (Billington's narrative essentially stopped in the 1890's). And he situates the development of the West solidly within the larger story of the advance of industrial capitalism. His book suggests that the "new Western history," which proclaimed its own birth only a few years ago, is rapidly coming of age.
"Let's face it," Mr. White said recently, at a conference of new Western historians in Santa Fe, N.M., "none of us will ever be as influential as Turner." And so far, certainly, the revisionists have not produced a broad, forceful interpretation of the Western past in any way comparable to the "frontier thesis." Even so, the new Western history has succeeded in attracting a level of public attention (and criticism) unusual for academic scholarship.
The novelist Larry McMurtry, for example, published a long essay in The New Republic two years ago maintaining that by their emphasis on the many failures and tragedies that undoubtedly characterized the Western past, the new Western historians overlooked the bold dreams and romantic hopes that drove so many people to "go west" to start anew. The creators of what he called "Failure Studies" had themselves failed, he said, "because they so rarely do justice to the quality of imagination that constitutes part of the truth."
AND in 1991, the National Museum of American Art in Washington mounted "The West as America," a large, ambitious exhibition of 19th-century Western American art accompanied by an extensive commentary that reflected some of the assumptions of the new Western history.
The critical reaction was remarkably harsh. That was, in part, because of the condescending didacticism of some of the wall texts, burdened, Michael Kimmelman of The New York Times observed in an article on the controversy surrounding the exhibition, "with forced analyses and inflammatory observations."
But in larger part, it seems clear, it was because the exhibit -- by calling attention to the propagandistic quality of the art -- debunked some of America's most cherished myths. It was, critics such as Robert Hughes and Benjamin Forgey charged, an exercise in simple-minded "political correctness." It demonized white males and romanticized their victims. It refused to acknowledge that the Anglo-American presence in the West had contributed anything positive to the region. The exhibition (and the revisionist scholarship it reflected) had left no place for the romantic, individualistic West of the Anglo-American imagination.
In fact, the new Western historians are well aware of the role of myth and imagination in the history of their region, but they are wary of its influence. The first major work of revisionist scholarship in the field was Henry Nash Smith's "Virgin Land," published in 1950 --a brilliant exploration of the myths and symbols that shaped American images of the West. Its influence is very much alive today in the work of the new revisionists, many of whom are centrally concerned with the role of myth and imagination in the Western past. What distinguishes them from most earlier historians (and from their own present-day critics) is their insistence on stripping Western myths of their spurious factual support -- of exposing them for the self-serving illusions they usually were.
Shattering the myths of the American West is indeed startling to the millions of people around the world whose image of the region has been shaped by Hollywood and the rest of American popular culture. But to academic historians in other fields, it is sometimes difficult to understand what all the shouting is about. For much of what is new in the history of the West is not new at all to American history generally, which has been preoccupied for years now with issues of racial diversity, class conflict and gender relations, and which rejected the progressive, triumphalist, ethnocentric assumptions of the Turner thesis two generations ago.
Most of the new Western historians share a belief, as the editors of "Under an Open Sky" put it, "that one cannot understand the modern United States without coming to terms with its Western past." Supporting that contention, however, requires looking beyond the somewhat parochial preoccupation of the revisionists intent on banishing Turner's ghost. It requires considering not so much what is new as what is distinctively Western about the history they are attempting to explain.
In fact, the emphasis of the new Western historians on their disagreements with Turner serves to disguise some of their most important achievements. For they have also developed an impressive body of scholarship that makes a strong case for the distinctiveness of the Western experience -- and for its relevance to the rest of American history -- that has little to do with Turner at all. They develop the argument in at least three ways.
First, Western history has been the source of some of the most serious scholarship on the history of the environment -- a subject that has played an especially vivid role in the arid lands west of the Mississippi, but one that now has new importance for the rest of the nation (and the world). One example is "Under Western Skies," a collection of articles and essays by Donald Worster, one of the most eminent environmental historians of the West.
Mr. Worster argues here, as he has in several other important books, including "Rivers of Empire" and "Dust Bowl," that the West can best be defined as a "hydraulic" society -- "a social order founded on the intensive management of water." Making the desert bloom -- building the great dams, canals and irrigation systems that have permitted agriculture to flourish in California and great cities to thrive in Arizona -- is one of the great achievements of modern Western history (and helps explain why the Federal Government, which has engineered most of these technological marvels, has been so much more important to the West than to any other region). It is also, in Mr. Worster's view, a disaster of epic proportions, which helped create the Dust Bowl of the 1930's and which will, he predicts, lead to far greater catastrophes in the future. "Human domination over nature is quite simply an illusion, a passing dream by a naive species," he writes. "It is an illusion that has cost us much, ensnared us in our own designs, given us a few boasts to make about our courage and genius, but all the same it is an illusion."
William Cronon, another important historian of the West who has focused on the history of the environment, makes a similarly powerful -- if less misanthropic -- case for placing ecology at the center of the story of the region in "Nature's Metropolis," his Bancroft Prize-winning study of the growth of Chicago. "From the heart of the city," he argues, "the frontier history of the Great West looks to be a story of metropolitan expansion, of the growing incursions of a market economy into ever more distant landscapes and communities." The development of Chicago -- and of the West -- is thus the study of the relationship between a dynamic industrial society and a complex ecosystem -- a "tale of people reshaping the land to match their collective vision of its destiny," and a tale of humans, in turn, being shaped by the natural world they set out to tame.
Charles F. Wilkinson, a historian of the land and water laws that have done so much to shape the West, likewise emphasizes the role of the environment in the Western experience. In 12 elegant essays published in "The Eagle Bird: Mapping a New West," he explores (among other things) recent disputes between environmentalists and developers in the West and calls on residents of the region to develop an "ethic of place" that balances human needs against the ecological and spiritual importance of protecting the West's distinctive (and endangered) natural world.
If the West can be defined in part by the relationship of its people to the environment, it can also be defined by the relationship of Westerners to the idea of their region. The American South has long made the case for its own distinctiveness on the basis of Southerners' own belief in the idea of a regional identity. Some Westerners would like to do the same.
In "A Society to Match the Scenery," a collection of essays, poems, photographs and random reflections, several dozen Western writers and artists, including Edward Dorn, Terry Tempest Williams, William Kittredge and Wallace Stegner, struggle to define what they consider the West to be and what they would like it to become. The eclectic material in this book provides no consistent answer to either question, although conspicuously missing from almost all the efforts is any evocation of the traditional, romantic notion of the hardy, independent West.
What is most significant, however, is that the contributors asked the questions at all -- that having rejected the things that have long defined the West as a region for most Americans, they still feel a strong identification with their own region and seek to explain why.
And that is, in effect, part of what many of the new Western historians -- most of whom are natives, or at least residents, of the region they study -- are doing as well. Their critics have often accused them of being wholly negative, of setting out to destroy the "story" of the West as generations have liked to hear it without offering an alternative. But the revisionists are doing more than showing the inadequacies of the traditional story; they are struggling to construct a new one that is no less distinctive, no less "Western" than the one they have rejected. They are coming to terms with their own sense of themselves as products of a special place. "For those with imagination to find it," Donald Worster writes in "Under Western Skies," "there is plenty of thick history to be written about this region. Within its spacious boundaries and across its sparse, dry expanses, through what is now more than 200 years of European settlement and many thousand of Indian life, this region offers for study all the greed, violence, beauty, ambition and variety anyone could use. . . . We are beginning to know where the true West is, what it has been, what it might have been, what it might still be. We are beginning to know the place for the first time."
FINALLY, scholars of the American West have developed a persuasive case for the distinctiveness of their region by drawing attention to its extraordinary cultural diversity. "At its core," John Mack Faragher, the author of "Women and Men on the Overland Trail," asserts, "frontier history is the story of the contact of cultures, their competition and their continuing relations. It cannot be the story of any one side." "Multiculturalism," which is becoming the source of sweeping (and often painful) reappraisals of almost every area of American life, has a special claim to attention for historians of the West. No other region has had so long and intensive an experience of racial and ethnic diversity; no other place displays the imprint of multicul turalism more clearly.
David J. Weber makes that clear in "The Spanish Frontier in North America," an important new study of the Spanish empire's collision with the native peoples of what is now the Southwestern United States, and of their joint encounter in the 19th century with English-speaking Americans. Spain's "long tenure left an enduring legacy that extended beyond the tangible transformation of peoples and places," Mr. Weber maintains, despite the subsequent efforts of Anglo-Americans to erase it -- just as Indian and Hispanic societies have continued to shape Western America despite two centuries of subjugation and white denial. "Indians and Hispanics may have been militarily subdued," Elliot West, the author of "Growing Up With the Country: Childhood on the Far Western Frontier," notes, "but when we start to reconstruct the details we find that . . . those cultures have been remarkably resilient. If much has been lost, much has survived, and there has been a vigorous exchange between the conquered and the conquerors, a cross-fertilization of customs, ideas, material culture, language and world views."
In treating the Southwest anthropologically, in making the case for the survival of Indian and Hispanic culture in a region in which both ultimately faced powerful external challenges, Mr. Weber reinforces an argument advanced several years ago by Patricia Nelson Limerick, a professor of history at the University of Colorado at Boulder, in "The Legacy of Conquest," a book published in 1987 that did much to stimulate discussion of the new Western history. "One lesson of anthropology," she wrote, "is the extraordinary power of cultural persistence; with American Indians, for instance, beliefs and values will persist even when the supporting economic and political structures have vanished."
The persistence of many cultures -- Indian, Hispanic, Anglo-American, African-American, Asian, and others -- and the interaction among them has long been central to Western American history. As it becomes ever more central to the rest of the nation as well, the new history of the West will have much to teach us all.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A detail of "American Progress," by John Gast, 1872. (pg. 22); "End of the Trail," by James Earle Fraser, about 1894. (pg. 23)(From the Catalogue to "The West as America")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: HARPER'S MAGAZINE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTERN STATES (US) UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE HISTORY (95%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); WORLD WAR II (74%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, ALAN; TURNER, FREDERICK; WEBB, WALTER PRESCOTT; WORSTER, DONALD; CRANON, WILLIAM; WILKINSON, CHARLES F FREDERICK JACKSON TURNER (92%); WALTER PRESCOTT WEBB (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1992



657 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Econoblab on the Campaign Trail

BYLINE: By Herbert Stein; Herbert Stein is author, with Murray Foss, of "An Illustrated Guide to the American Economy." He was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald R. Ford. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
However different, the economic proposals of the two Presidential candidates share an important characteristic. They do not deal seriously with the country's three main, and different, economic problems: jobs, growth and poverty. The jobs problem is linked to the recession that began in 1990 and from which we are slowly recovering. This is the issue that makes economics the central concern of this election. The other complaints about the economy -- sluggish growth, persistent poverty -- were as valid in 1988 as they are now.
So a basic question is what programs the candidates have for accelerating the recovery and regaining high employment. The simple answer is that they have none. A recovery plan would have to consist of one or both of two elements. One would be monetary expansion. I have not read every word in the hurricane of statements made by President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton, but I have read Mr. Bush's "Agenda" and Mr. Clinton's "Plan" and heard a lot of other talk by or for them. I have not seen the words "monetary policy" or anything relating to it in either of their recent utterances, except a fleeting reference in Mr. Bush's Agenda to "sound money" as a good thing. Both candidates are silent on whether the Federal Reserve should increase the money supply faster and get interest rates down further in order to stimulate consumer demand and investment. 
 The other element of a temporary recovery plan could be tax cuts or spending increases. The timing of such a policy is critical, so that the effects will be felt when they are helpful and not when they are inflationary. This means the program must not raise important conflicts about ideology or sectoral interest, so that it can be quickly adopted once it is proposed. There must not be a long lapse of time for decision-making before money begins to flow and employment increases. Then, the plan -- that is, the tax cuts or spending increases -- must terminate when high employment is reached, before inflation sets in.
In a speech in November 1991, Mr. Clinton seemed to express some interest in a program of this kind. But that has entirely fallen out of his picture. Mr. Bush had some elements of a recovery plan in his proposals in January and February, but they were not serious: a cut of the capital gains tax was the cornerstone of his plan, meaning it could not be adopted.
Both candidates now concentrate on an elaborate reconstruction of the Federal budget. The results, whatever they might be, would probably not be felt in time to contribute to a satisfactory return to high employment and would continue long after the need had passed. Effective anti-recession policy requires a suspension of controversy so that timely agreement on action can be reached. Neither party is open for that, especially during the campaign.
The Clinton and Bush plans focus not on jobs, despite their talk about that subject, but on the longer-run problem of growth. The growth problem is the productivity problem, the slow rise in output per worker since 1973. Nobody, not even all the Nobel Prize winners in economics, knows for sure how to correct that.
But there is agreement that an increase in investment would help. And almost everyone, including Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton, wants more investment. But there is disagreement about the best way to get the investment -- by reducing the deficit (freeing up more private savings for productive capital), by spending more on infrastructure, by investing in education and job training, or by lowering taxes so that individuals and corporations would have more money to invest.
If we are to invest more in any of these forms, we will have to consume less -- a smaller fraction of the national output, not necessarily a smaller absolute amount. But that means restraining the consumption of the middle class.
This means some combination of raising taxes on the middle class or cutting its Government benefits. The biggest benefit, and the one rising most rapidly, is Medicare. But our candidates are not heroes and are not willing to raise taxes on the middle class or cut their benefits.
Instead, Mr. Clinton tries to find the resources needed for more investment in four areas.
One, by raising taxes on the rich and on corporations. This would not reduce consumption much but would reduce private saving.
Two, by cutting defense spending below the Bush proposal. This is probably real, but provides funds for only about one-fifth of the amount of additional investment Mr. Clinton promises.
Three, by trimming other expenditures in vaguely specified ways that would require him to be more successful than his predecessors in making the Government more efficient.
Four, by having the Government "target" investment to the most productive, growth-promoting projects, either through spending or other encouragement. "Targeting" is one of Mr. Clinton's favorite words. He does not seem to recognize the gap between aiming at the target and hitting it. There is no reason to think that the Government, no matter how many Massachusetts Institute of Technology professors advise it, would have more hits than misses.
Mr. Bush's growth policy emphasizes spending cuts, although he too is very chary of attacking the big benefits for the middle class. But he is also devoted to giving back in middle-class tax reduction whatever he can save by lower spending, so there would be no net cut in consumption and no release of resources for investment.
With respect to poverty, and the associated problem of the inner cities with their high rates of crime, illegitimacy, persistent unemployment and alienation, our candidates are no more encouraging. They call for many of the same right things -- higher financing of Head Start, welfare reform, enterprise zones, job training, more police and so on. But neither man shows any sign of giving these ideas the priority they will require to be adopted in competition with other claims supported by more powerful forces.
Mr. Clinton seems to have no priorities at all. He recognizes a thousand problems and has a thousand solutions, and no one has precedence over any other. He claims to have one priority: he is for "people," meaning the middle class, meaning 98 percent of the population, meaning most voters. He embraces the poor within the middle class, and his policy for the poor is just part of his policy for the middle class. With such a strategy, the problems of the poor will not get the attention or resources they require.
Mr. Bush's priorities are unclear. But since the Los Angeles riots, if not before, he has had the opportunity to demonstrate how highly he rates the problems of poverty and the inner cities, and obviously he does not rate them very highly. Surely they rank below cutting capital gains taxes, for example.
I should not close on a gloomy note. We have a very rich and strong economy. Americans are capable and adaptable. The economy will recover, it will grow, and people will rise out of poverty. This would happen a little faster if our leaders were more courageous and farsighted. But not much faster.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: STEIN, HERBERT; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



658 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9
 
TREATY SQUEAKS BY IN FRANCE
After a bruising referendum campaign that divided France and alarmed Western Europe, French voters narrowly approved a treaty on European union. A1
 
A new battlefront on unity seems certain to open in Britain. A8 

FADING DREAM OF UNITY
By only barely approving a treaty on European union, French voters may have shown that the dream of a united continent is receding. The danger now is that fear and resentment over German strength will continue to divide Europeans.A1
 
A RAH AND A JA FOR A FAINT OUI
European finance ministers turned into cheerleaders, proclaiming that the close French vote in favor of unity should calm the world's jittery financial markets. President Bush also lent his voice.A1
 
DISPUTE OVER SOVIET DEBT
The United States and Russia have squared off against Germany in a dispute over repayment of the former Soviet Union's debt. Russia wants a five-year extension on payment of interest and principal. A9
 
A pledge to weigh the impact of development in poor nations. A9
 
CHEMICAL SALE WORRIES U.S.
The United States has protested to India about the sale of chemicals needed to make poison gas to Mideast nations. Officials say the shipments undercut efforts to stem the spread of chemical weapons. A1
 
NEW PARAGON FOR MEXICAN PUPILS
Critics have accused the Mexican Government of rewriting history to suit its own needs. Many object to the rehabilitation of Porfirio Diaz, a dictator who they say was like President Salinas in putting economic reform first. A3
 
TERROR ON CROATIAN BORDER
Tensions and reports of abuses by Serbian irregular forces are sharply on the rise again in Croatia. U.N. officials say Serbian leaders have refused to disband as many as 3,000 paramilitary troops. xA6
 
A Japanese restaurant chain seeks to import American sushi. A5
 
Iraq reported conducts executions for economic crimes. A6
 
A glimpse of how Moscow's bribe-ridden economy really works. A4
 
National A10-15
 
G.O.P. RE-EVALUATES A TACTIC
After finding that stressing "family values" at its national convention had done more harm than good, the White House is facing the task of setting the President's campaign back on a less damaging course in dealing with social issues. A1
 
BUSH LOSING GRIP ON COLORADO
President Bush trails Bill Clinton in Colorado, hardly a crucial state but one epitomizing a perilous problem for Mr. Bush: with only six weeks left until Election Day, he has still not secured many of the states that ought to constitute his base. A15
 
ANTI-BUSH AD TELEVISED
The Clinton campaign televised the first negative commercial of the 1992 Presidential race, painting President Bush as unrealistic, as both sides traded accusations on the draft, the economy and taxes. A14
 
Vice President Quayle is sending Murphy Brown's baby a gift. A14
 
FRAUD FOR THE 1990's
A growing number of companies are being sent to the regulatory woodshed in the 90's in what some say is a sharp change in the type of corporate fraud being committed, like those involving stock trading and those involving the way public companies are run. A1
 
STORM OVER ALIENS' RELEASE
The release of about 40 illegal aliens awaiting immigration hearings at the Krome Avenue Detention Center in South Florida after they helped clean up damage from Hurricane Andrew was welcomed by their lawyers, who still criticized the action as showing how arbitrary immigration regulations can be. A10
 
A GOVERNOR'S TRAVAILS
Allegations involving Gov. Roy Hunt of Alabama have made his administration look as ethically troubled to some as past Democratic state administrations, and many Republicans are wondering whether the man who became their party's first governor in the state in 118 years may be its last for some time. A10
 
SHUTTLE, AND MENAGERIE, RETURN
The shuttle Endeavor ended a Japanese research mission, landing in Florida with seven astronauts, two carp, four frogs and assorted tadpoles, hornets and flies. A12
 
Metro Digest B1
 
OLDER MEN AND AIDS
Just as young people will reject the elderly for being slow or out of touch, young people with H.I.V. often have little patience or empathy for old people with H.I.V. So a tiny group of older men infected with the virus meet once a week in Greenwich Village to discuss their past and plan whatever future they have left. A1
 
Business Digest C1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-18
 
A FESTIVAL WITHOUT PAPP
As the New York Shakespeare Festival enters its first full season since its founder died, it is far different than it was under Joseph Papp. Staff, budget and original works are down, and its new director, JoAnne Akalaitis, has become a lightning rod for controversy. C11.
 
Fifth victory by Fischer puts chess match at the halfway mark. C18
 
Theater: "Cut the Ribbons." C14
 
Film: Talk of Hollywood. C11
 
Dance in Review C12
 
Dance Theater of Harlem in
 
Johannesburg. C11
 
Word and Image:
 
Diane English brings out another one on Monday TV. C11
 
"Contraception: The Stalled Revolution." C16
 
"Tonight" show problems. C16
 
Richard Rhodes's "Making Love." C16
 
Sports C1-10
 
Baseball: Fernandez has Expos waving goodbye. C1
 
Snow makes Yankee debut. C2
 
Guzman beats Jays and other Guzman. C3
 
Mets juggling for expansion list. C4
 
Pirate fans can't read all about it. C4
 
Column: Anderson on Jets and Giants. C5
 
Features: Sidelines C2
 
Football: Jets crumble to 0-3 mark. C1
 
Eagles trounce Broncos. C1
 
No longer giants on defense. C7
 
Syracuse meets its match. C7
 
Allegre only plays a waiting game. C5
 
Oilers squeak by in overtime. C6
 
Packers pull off a few surprises. C6
 
Hockey: What's the hurry for Devils? C10
 
Horse Racing: Versailles Treaty wins Ruffian. C8
 
Obituaries B8
 
Gladwin Hill, a journalist who pioneered environmental reporting.
 
Carl J. Megel, early president and expander of Teachers Union.
 
Warren Moscow, a political reporter and an aide to Mayor Wagner.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Don't blame the owl.
Nuclear opening in North Korea.
Snuff the anti-smoking bill.
Plan now for the next Andrew
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: The two faces of George.
 
William Safire: No more Europhoria.
 
Herbert Stein: Econoblab on the campaign trail.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); MEXICO (92%); GERMANY (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); MEXICO (92%); GERMANY (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDIA (79%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS VOTERS & VOTING (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); POLITICS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (71%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); FAMILY (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); RESTAURANTS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



659 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Issues -- 'Family Values';
Bush Tries to Recoup From Harsh Tone on 'Values'

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
A month after the Republican National Convention, much of President Bush's campaign is still directed at avoiding the harsh tone of the "family values" oratory in Houston, which party strategists have agreed was a mistake that damaged Mr. Bush's re-election effort.
In interviews in the last few days, senior campaign and White House officials said the hostility expressed at the convention toward homosexuals, feminists, welfare recipients and women who identify with Hillary Clinton was a result of a strategy that was poorly managed and consequently ran amok. 
 At the outset, Bush strategists had decided to use the convention to court the Republican right. But no one was assigned the task of trying to balance the presentation to prevent a zealous, one-note message. Now the White House is facing the task of setting the President's campaign back on a less damaging course in dealing with social issues without alienating the party's conservative wing.
The President is clearly striking for a more mainstream position on social issues than those taken at the convention, an effort that is perhaps most evident in the way he has dropped any mention of the party's support of a ban on abortion.
In general, the Bush campaign has been forced to soften its approach on issues once mapped for attack in the fall, including the ties between Gov. Bill Clinton and gay rights groups, and the contrast between the extended, grandchild-filled Bush clan and the Clintons' 1980's-style life partnership.
Even the assault on Mr. Clinton's draft record, which is central to the Bush team's strategy, has been recast to focus on the Democratic nominee's credibility, rather than his patriotism, courage or commitment to his country.
"You don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out that whatever went on in Houston, fair or unfair, 'family values' took on a connotation that was a gigantic negative," said a senior Bush aide who would comment only if not identified. "So why in the world keep on using the words? Who would be that stupid? But no one is retreating from their principles, because that would be stupid, too. It's just different phrasing, different emphasis."
A diverse group of White House officials, campaign aides and party strategists laid much of the blame for the political fumble to the old team at the White House. Samuel K. Skinner had already resigned as chief of staff before the convention, and James A. Baker 3d was not due to take over the job until the Monday after it ended.
The emergence now of the details of what went wrong in Houston seems intended in part to make Mr. Baker's team look good by contrast. But even Republicans outside Mr. Baker's circle say the convention went sour. The full extent of Mr. Baker's involvement in the convention is not known, but some Bush aides say he and his team deserve some blame for the convention's failures, being so intent on sticking to their vacation plans that they refused to become involved in the convention, except to work on Mr. Bush's own address.
In any event, there seems little doubt that insufficient coordination and supervision allowed Patrick J. Buchanan and others who were supposed to be supporting players to dominate the convention.
White House advisers say privately that Mr. Buchanan was permitted to kidnap the President's convention because its managers agreed in advance not to edit his speech. Many speeches were edited by the managers -- Craig Fuller, James Lake, Frederick V. Malek and Charles Black, a campaign adviser -- but in addition to Mr. Buchanan's speech another controversial address, by the television evangelist, the Rev. Pat Robertson, was allowed to go unchanged.
Bush aides say the convention was planned according to orders from the White House and was not intended to present a right-wing message. But some concede that their efforts to satisfy conservatives backfired, at least in terms of public perceptions.
Now, as the campaign tries to modulate its talk of "family values" without dropping the subject altogether, it has left itself open to renewed criticism that Mr. Bush lacks ideological focus and that their regrets are not about the image projected in Houston, but about the negative results.
Although some Republicans still insist that the Democrats and the news media organizations unfairly emphasized the conservatives' role in the convention, it is evident that the party is trying to define itself as more interested in the inclusive vision of family as defined by Barbara Bush than in the "religious war" espoused by Mr. Buchanan.
 
Rules for Speech Writers
 Bush campaign literature now describes Mr. Bush as favoring "reasonable restrictions on abortions," when in fact he has long supported a constitutional ban. Vice President Dan Quayle, too, has forsaken anti-abortion battle cries in favor of supporting laws, like the one in Pennsylvania, that regulate abortion.
Under the direction of Mr. Baker's aide, Robert B. Zoellick, White House speech writers now must tightly link all references to "family values" to specific policies like child care and education, and not to the way people choose to live their lives and conduct their marriages.
Mr. Quayle, who touched off the family values offensive with the speech in which he cited the television character Murphy Brown, has conducted a conscious effort to moderate his oratory. And Marilyn Quayle, who ad-libbed the "draft dodger" attack on Mr. Clinton in her convention speech, is now saying her address was unfairly misinterpreted as an argument that some life choices are better than others.
But some Republicans said that a great deal of damage had already been done, especially in places like California where Mr. Bush had already been having difficulties because of the weak economy.
 
Some See Fallout
 "I have gotten a lot of feedback from California Republicans who believe that Bush's climb in this state is much steeper as a result of the convention, especially among moderate and liberal-leaning Republicans," said Donald Sipple, a Republican media consultant who had a falling-out with the Bush campaign earlier this year.
A senior Bush aide attributed much of problem to the speeches by Mr. Robertson and Mr. Buchanan. "The convention was not supposed to be focused so much on family values," he said. "But you had two speeches that attracted an inordinate amount of attention, and then Marilyn Quayle's speech seemed to reach the critical mass."
Another official said: "There was inadequate editorial commentary or suggestion on those speeches. The people who were viewing and commenting on them and working with Robertson and Buchanan were simply not sensitive to the issues."
On the day after the convention, the simmering problem came to a boil.
 
Response to President
 In Houston, Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the Republican whip, had tried out on campaign aides a line linking Mr. Clinton to Woody Allen's current troubles, and the aides begged him not to use it at an appearance with Mr. Bush scheduled for the next day.
Mr. Gingrich went ahead anyway, forcing the White House to repudiate his remarks.
Then the President delivered the following line at a gathering of conservative Christians in Dallas: "I was struck by the fact that the other party took words to put together their platform but left out three simple letters: G-O-D."
The comment stirred a cry of protest from members of the clergy around the country and alarmed Mr. Bush's new team of advisers in Washington, officials said. It was no longer the President's surrogates, but Mr. Bush himself, who was at the center of the backlash over the convention.
"That dotted the I and crossed the T and convinced everyone that regardless of the intention, the tone had gone badly wrong," a senior official said. "The unspoken conclusion was simply that we had to make it right, that we had to take a look at what we are saying and how we are saying it and change it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dan Quayle on NBC's "Meet the Press." (Associated Press) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY WHITE HOUSE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY WHITE HOUSE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS); CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); HOMOSEXUALITY; FEMINIST MOVEMENT; WELFARE (US); ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); LGBT RIGHTS (71%); ABORTION (66%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



660 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: TURMOIL IN EUROPE;
Finance Officials See French Vote Calming Nervous World Markets

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
European finance ministers turned into cheerleaders today, proclaiming that the close vote in France in favor of European unity should calm the world's jittery financial markets. And their efforts at reassurance got a boost from President Bush.
A day after the Group of Seven industrial nations met here and pledged to help stabilize markets, officials from the 12 members of the European Community gathered for talks, then insisted that the vote should have a calming effect. 
 Several European officials said privately that central banks were ready to intervene if the French franc or another currency came under attack.
 
A Hope for Calm in the Markets
 "We believe this will lead to a calming down of the turbulence in the markets," said Henning Christopherson, the European Community's Commissioner for Economic Affairs. The European officials also vowed that there would be no more devaluations within the European monetary system. Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, Norman Lamont, said, "There is no realignment."
Mr. Lamont, who was scheduled to stay in Washington until Thursday, decided to cut short his visit and return to Britain on Monday. Last week's currency crisis forced devaluation of the British pound as well as the Italian lira and the Spanish peseta, and the British Parliament begins an emergency debate on the economy on Thursday.
President Bush joined the chorus of optimism in a short statement he read to finance ministers from two dozen countries as he welcomed them to a White House reception. He called for strengthening the world's monetary system and urged the major industrial nations to step up their economic cooperation.
In his comments today, Mr. Bush seemed determined to demonstrate both an interest in the global economy and his familiarity with foreign leaders and their problems, taking advantage of their visit during the midst of his re-election campaign.
He said Washington was closely following the European crisis and would help to calm things down, if called upon.
"I want to assure you of the United States' commitment to be strongly engaged in a positive, steady fashion to help build global prosperity," he said. "I am working to strengthen America to compete with you, not retreat from you."
The President also made a highly technical suggestion to link world currency rates to a basket of commodities, including gold, to help Governments discern inflation and adjust their policies accordingly. This proposal was pushed by James A. Baker 3d when he was Treasury Secretary in 1987, and reflects the heavy influence of Mr. Baker, who is now the White House chief of staff and director of Mr. Bush's re-election campaign.
The President said the basket of commodities could be used along with other measures of performance, like growth and trade imbalances, to help coordinate economic policies. He also urged the industrial nations to compare their different economic perspectives and work harder to agree on policies.
A senior Treasury official said the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Michel Camdessus, a former governor of the Bank of France, had called today for developing new methods to stabilize the world's monetary system. The Treasury official said the Bush proposal was the American response. The last time Washington made a similar proposal was in 1987, as the French Government was pushing hard for fixed exchange rates among all the major industrial countries.
Mr. Bush also took the occasion to urge nations to cooperate in completing international trade talks that aim to spur growth by removing trade barriers. The talks have been deadlocked for months over a European-American dispute about how fast to cut subsidies to farmers. The Bush Administration has been seeking sharper reductions in subsidies than the Europeans have been willing to make, because their farmers are a potent political force.
Before the French vote, foreign exchange traders had warned that a rejection of the Maastricht treaty, which calls for a single European currency and central bank, would cause the franc and other European currencies to come under heavy fire -- a replay of last week's turmoil. A convincing "yes" vote might be enough to restore confidence, some analysts said.
But the narrow vote in favor of the treaty may not carry the day in the financial markets, where some investors may stand ready to test Europe's commitment to forming a single currency.
The European Community's finance minsters and central bankers are in Washington for the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, and after a two-hour meeting they spoke as if in one voice, a soothing one. The French vote, they declared, however narrow, should soothe the nervous markets.
 
'It's Good for Europe'
 "It's good for Europe, and it's good for the markets," said Theo Waigel, Germany's Finance Minister.
And Maurice Doyle, president of Ireland's central bank, said, "I don't see any reason for further chaos."
In the hours after the results of the French vote were announced, currency trading was calm, and the franc and the lira strengthened a bit against the German mark. Some economists wondered aloud if the European central banks were already secretly intervening, buying vulnerable currencies, to show the world that the "yes" vote was good for currency stability.
In a brief communique, the ministers "expressed their view that the result" of the French vote "will ease tension in the foreign exchange markets."
They also stated their commitment to the European monetary system, the 11-nation arrangement of linked exchange rates that exploded last week when investors savaged the lira, pound and peseta, forcing all of them to be devalued against the German mark. Italy and Britain temporarily withdrew from the system, which was established in 1979 to create a zone of exchange rate stability that aimed to spur trade, investment in growth.
Late today, it was clear that the Europeans were locked in a tense debate about how the pieces of the tattered monetary system could be put back together.
Some officials said that just the half-dozen countries with the lowest inflation rates should be allowed to continue in the system. This would relieve tensions because countries with high inflation, like Italy, have to jack up their rates to keep their currencies from plunging against the German mark.
 
The Stakes for Europe
 The stakes were clear well before the results of today's vote in France.
Mr. Lamont of Britain took pains in a news briefing this morning to affirm his country's commitment to the currency and trade mechanisms of the European Community, though he was carefully unspecific on the important question of whether the links would be formal or informal.
Britain suspended its participation in the European monetary system last week, when despite a German interest rate cut, the first in five years, the pound was unable to its maintain its value against the mark, as the system requires.
Speculators attacked the pound partly because they were convinced that Britain, mired in recession for two years now, could not indefinitely keep its interest rates at a stratospheric level to keep the pound from sliding against the German mark.
The United States, Britain and France have repeatedly criticized Germany for its high interest rates, which have strengthened the mark and forced other European countries to raise their rates in tandem. This has slowed growth and investment in Europe and the rest of the world.
 
Emphasis on Growth
 On Saturday, the Group of Seven's finance ministers and central bankers tilted in favor of lower interest rates, praising some recent rate cuts and saying, "These meaures will strengthen the global economic recovery and foster greater stability of exchange markets."
At the meetings here, the United States and Britain continued to press Germany to reduce its interest rates still further to spur European -- and world -- economic growth.
"Recent developments in world currency markets highlight the importance of strengthening growth," Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady told other finance ministers today at the monetary fund. "Policy measures for a stronger world economy are consistent with and will complement efforts to promote greater stability of exchange markets."
In a sign of the repercussions the currency crisis could have far beyond Europe, Yasushi Mieno, governor of Japan's central bank, said: "It's true that the disruption and turmoil in the European foreign exchange markets occur within the European monetary system. However, it is not a matter concerning just Europe. This volatility may affect world foreign exchange markets and the world economy. It's a matter for the world to be concerned about."
Washington was awash today with finance ministers -- they came and met and parted and met again in what sometimes seemed like a round-robin rugby competition. There were meetings of the 12 European Community finance ministers, of the finance ministers and central bankers of 10 major industrial nations and of the finance ministers of the 22 countries who hold seats on the monetary fund's executive board.
The punchiest debating match inside today's meetings, officials said, was between Britain and Germany. Mr. Lamont criticized Germany, saying the large budget deficit it had incurred in financing German unification had forced Germany's central bank to raise rates, which slowed growth in Europe. But Mr. Waigel, the German Finance Minister, argued that German reunification had spurred growth throughout the continent because it had fueled growth in Germany and caused Germany to import more from other European nations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Theo Waigel, left, the German Finance Minister, Michel Sapin, center, the French Finance Minister, and Michel Camdessus, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, leaving the East Room of the White House after listening to an address yesterday by President Bush; Alan Greenspan, left, chairman of the Federal Reserve, conferring with Robin Leigh-Pemberton, the governor of the Bank of England. (Photographs by Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN FINANCE REINSURANCE CO LTD (92%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; SPAIN; ITALY; FRANCE; UNITED STATES EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM DEVALUATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); BRITISH POUND (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



661 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1999 words

HEADLINE: Business Fraud of the 90's: Falsifying Corporate Data

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
The names are toppling like financial dominoes: Phar-Mor, the Ohio drugstore chain; College Bound, a school-test coaching service in Florida, and Gottschalks, a retailer in California. In the last year, each has been found to have provided regulators and investors with seriously inaccurate information about its activities.
They are part of a growing parade of companies sent to the regulatory woodshed in the 90's in what some securities lawyers and regulators say is a sharp change in the type of corporate frauds being committed -- from those involving stock trading to those involving the way public companies are run. 
 Solid numbers are hard to come by, since the cases fall across several legal and regional jurisdictions. But in the last year alone, at least 20 public companies traded on national stock exchanges have come forward to disclose serious lapses in their past financial statements ranging from inflated sales and hidden ownership to the possibility of outright embezzlement.
"There's no doubt about it," said Charles Harper, the chief of the Miami office of the S.E.C. and one of the agency's most experienced fraud fighters. "We're seeing the serious problems migrating upstream, from the brokers to the issuers."
Cases tracked by Securities Class Action Alert, a research service in Cresskill, N.J., show the same trend.
"In the 1980's, most of the lawsuits were takeover related," said James Newman, publisher of the service. "In the 90's, we've seen a very significant rise in suits charging significant fraud and failures to disclose losses or poor earnings."
 
Fewer Enforcement Tools
 And these recent cases may pose greater challenges to regulators and higher risks to investors than the previous brands. New laws and a larger force of S.E.C. accountants have given fraud fighters a few new tricks to use against this crime wave. But compared with the recent penny-stock and insider-trading battles, regulators still have fewer tools -- and they are harder and more cumbersome to use.
What is more, this time more investors are likely to own the affected stocks, either directly or indirectly through mutual funds and pensions.
 
Damage to Small Companies
 And while fraud occurs in the biggest corporations, it is typically more damaging to the stock of small or midsized companies, which have become Wall Street favorites in the last two years, outperforming the giant blue-chip companies. Such companies are now widely owned, not only by individuals but by institutional investors -- the mutual funds, pension funds and professionally managed accounts that constitute the nest eggs of middle America.
A case in point is Phar-Mor Inc., the drugstore chain in Youngstown, Ohio, that filed for bankruptcy in mid-August amid accusations by the company that a co-founder had embezzled money and hidden the fact behind a set of fake books. Phar-Mor had no publicly traded stock, but $61.2 million worth of its shares were held in nine mutual funds managed by Massachusetts Financial Services in Boston.
The funds bought the shares last March from the Westinghouse Credit Corporation, an institutional investor in Phar-Mor. Massachusetts Financial has since sued Westinghouse to rescind the deal.
What is driving this apparent upswing in "issuer fraud" cases? Experts point to the combined effects of a strong stock market, which has enabled often-shaky companies to sell stock to big institutions, and a weak economy, which has made it harder for those companies to deliver on their promises.
"That's when you see fraud cases increase," said Richard C. Breeden, chairman of the S.E.C. "People have made projections -- some mixture of hype and dream -- and along comes a weak economy and the results don't measure up. So they 'cook' the books."
Smaller companies also attract less attention from Wall Street analysts, allowing problems to go undetected.
Harvey Pitt, a longtime Washington securities lawyer and former regulator whose firm has investigated several fraud cases, offered another possibility. "Maybe we've become more attuned to the scandals," he said. "The standards of morality are rising, and things acceptable years ago are not acceptable today."
Mr. Breeden, the S.E.C. chief, disagrees. His view is that today's spate of issuer fraud reveals that moral standards, far from rising, are slipping. "I think it's partly a function of the weakening of society's ethics," he said. "Less lying means less fraud."
 
Incentive to Keep Stock Prices High
 Michael Murphy, publisher of the Overpriced Stock Service, an investment newsletter in Half Moon Bay, Calif., says the upswing in misbehavior is a result of stock-price temptation. "Stocks selling for $1 a share in the fall of 1990 are now selling for $12 to $14 a share," he said. "There's a big incentive for executives to try to maintain the price at that level."
Officials at the National Association of Securities Dealers, which runs the Nasdaq over-the-counter market, pointed their fingers at outside auditors. "They are our eyes and ears," said Don Bosic, an association official, "and in many of the cases of late, the companies have been able to pull something over on the auditors."
Whatever the causes, a review of company announcements, news headlines, investor lawsuits and S.E.C. documents gives the impression of a corporate crime wave in progress.
Perhaps the most spectacular example was the collapse of Cascade International, a retail chain based in Boca Raton, Fla. Victor D. Incendy, Cascade's founder and chairman, vanished last November after a few analysts questioned the accuracy of his company's financial statements. The company is now being liquidated, and Federal agents continue to look for Mr. Incendy.
Other widely traded companies whose financial statements are currently under S.E.C. scrutiny include:
*Fidelity Medical, a medical products company in Florham Park, N.J., which recently revised three years of audits after acknowledging that it had inflated sales numbers in earlier reports.
*Ross Cosmetics, a maker of low-cost perfume in Duncan, S.C., which is under investigation on charges that it failed to disclose accurately its controlling shareholders and the number of shares it had issued.
*Gottschalks Inc., a retail chain based in Fresno, Calif., which announced in May that Federal authorities were investigating a tax deduction the company took in 1985. In June, two former officers were indicted, and in July the company pleaded guilty to conspiracy and making false filings to the S.E.C. and the Internal Revenue Service.
 
Little Control Over Key Figures
 Mr. Harper, the Miami regulator, noted that the main figures in cases of issuer fraud tend to be a public company's own executives, lawyersor auditors -- people over whom regulators, as a matter of public policy, have little control.
By contrast, securities brokers, even those who push penny stocks through high-pressure telephone calls, must be licensed by both state and Federal authorities, making it much easier for regulators to monitor their activities.
But in most cases, there is nothing to prevent someone who has been in chronic trouble with the law from serving as an officer or director of any public company, so long as those past problems are adequately disclosed to investors.
"John Gotti, in jail for murder, could form a public company and sell stock, as long as he discloses his background," said Joseph Del Raso, a Philadelphia lawyer, a former S.E.C. regulator and the court-appointed trustee for College Bound. "And the sad truth is, probably a lot of people would buy those shares."
 
More Action Against Improper Auditing
 The front-line protection against issuer fraud, of course, is the S.E.C.'s requirement that public companies produce annual audits by independent accountants. Indeed, the agency has the power to bar auditors from practicing before the agency if it believes they have performed poorly -- and it is using this tool more frequently. After barring only 8 accountants in 1990 and 10 in 1991, the agency has barred 23 so far this year.
But such disciplinary steps usually provoke "endless" litigation, Mr. Breeden said, and can take months and sometimes years to put into effect. "So that may not be seen as an important deterrent," he added.
During that litigation period, securities lawyers agree, a public company would apparently not be required to inform investors that the S.E.C. was trying to bar an accountant who had done its audit.
The S.E.C. does review the adequacy of the information supplied in initial public stock offerings, and some percentage -- usually about 25 percent -- of the subsequent financial statements filed by corporations, said Elise Walter, deputy director of the agency's division of corporate finance.
More accountants have been hired in the last three years to help conduct those reviews, she said. But when the market for new offerings is hot -- as it has been in the last two years -- there are fewer resources available to monitor continuing operations, she added.
One new tool in the S.E.C.'s arsenal, acquired through new antifraud legislation in 1990, is the right to go to court against individuals found to have committed wrongdoings and obtain a court order barring them from any association with a public company, including service as an executive or director.
Last October, Mr. Harper of the S.E.C. used this new weapon in a case against Paul J. Carvajal, a Miami Beach resident who had served variously since 1986 as president, chief executive and a director of Delta Rental Systems, a Nasdaq-listed company that rented water-sports equipment at resort hotels. The S.E.C. charged that Delta, with Mr. Carvajal's help, had produced false financial statements and audits for three years.
The company and Mr. Carvajal settled with the S.E.C., without admitting or denying their guilt, by agreeing not to commit any future securities law violations. But at the agency's request, Federal District Judge Edward B. Davis in Miami also permanently barred Mr. Carvajal from "acting as an officer or director of any publicly held company."
Such bans can only be sought in cases that arise after the law was enacted in 1990, Mr. Breeden said. "But we certainly intend in the future to seek more court orders against people whose history suggests that disclosure notwithstanding they should not be associated with a public company," he said.
 
Tightening Rules But Not the Market
 Securities lawyers, professional investors and scholars suggest that there are other things regulators can do to combat issuer fraud: requiring corporate officers to obtain fidelity bonds, for example, and raising professional standards for accountants doing S.E.C. work.
But unlike discussions of insider trading or abusive selling practices by brokers, any theorizing about how to fight issuer fraud almost immediately runs aground on the basic regulatory problem: how to prevent fraud without unfairly restricting access to the equity markets.
This question has acquired strong political overtones in this election year, with the S.E.C. announcing new rules aimed at cutting the red tape involved when small businesses sell stock -- permitting less disclosure, critics say, but still requiring independent audits.
Mr. Breeden insists that these new rules do not weaken the agency's fight against issuer fraud. But state regulators -- and, privately, some S.E.C. staff members -- are concerned that the small-business initiative sends the wrong message to the marketplace.
Inevitably, the best protection against issuer fraud is an alert, skeptical investor, said Robert A. Anderson, executive vice president at Southeast Research Partners, an institutional research and brokerage firm based in Boca Raton.
"But it's getting harder all the time to detect these things," he said. "If Phar-Mor had been publicly traded, I'd have had all my clients in it."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How Scandal Can Change the Markets"
 
Company: Gottschalks
 
Reported what: Pleaded guilty in a tax case.
 On March 6, the company disclosed that it and the I.R.S. were investigating documents relating to its 1985 tax return. On May 20, it fired its chief financial officer and its controller, and said the I.R.S. criminal investigation division was handling the tax inquiry. On June 4, the two former executives were indicted on fraud and conspiracy charges. On July 16, the company said it would plead guilty to one conspiracy charge and would pay a $1.5 million fine.
 
Which hurt their stock price: [Graph tracks Gottschalks stock from February through September]
 
Who owns the shares? Largest institutional holders as of 6/92
 RCM Capital Management -- 398,600 shares
 Babson & Co. -- 375,800 shares
 Delaware Investment Advisors -- 341,500 shares
 Morgan Stanley Asset Mgmt. -- 132,600 shares
 
Company: Fidelity Medical
 
Reported what: Inflated sales revenues.
 On May 8, the company's C.E.O. resigned without explanation, and second-quarter sales estimates were reduced. On May 15, the company disclosed that the S.E.C. was investigating its financial records. On Aug. 18, it revised three prior annual audits -- cutting reported revenues by almost 15 percent and increasing the reported loss by more than 50 percent. Federal prosecutors in New Jersey are reviewing the case, the company said.
 
Which hurt their stock price: [Graph tracks Fidelity Medical stock from April through September]
 
Who owns the shares? Largest institutional holders as of 6/92
 EGS Partners -- 299,592 shares
 Transamerica Corp. -- 750,000 shares
 Soros Fund Management -- 19,449 shares
 Mellon Bank -- 13,200 shares
 California State Teachers Retirement Fund -- 10,650 shares
 
Company: Ross Cosmetics
 
Reported what: Hidden ownership stake.
 On June 12, the company disclosed that the S.E.C. was investigating its ownership and accounting practices. On Aug. 4, its chairman and its chief operating officer were removed by the board. On Sept 4, a group of Indian investors disclosed that they owned more than 60 percent of Ross without disclosing their stake
 
Which hurt their stock price: [Graph tracks Ross Cosmetics stock from April through September]
 
Who owns the shares? Largest institutional holders as of 6/92
 Bankers Trust -- 39,000 shares
 Zweig/Glaser Advisors -- 36,000 shares
 Roll & Ross Asset Management -- 35,000 shares
 Dimensional Fund Advisors -- 32,600 shares
 Bank of New York -- 25,300 shares
 
(Sources: Datastream; Bloomberg Business News) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PMORQ (NASDAQ) (84%); PMORQ (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (84%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PHAR-MOR INC (84%); S E C (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: S E C (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; EMBEZZLEMENT; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; FALSIFICATION OF DATA; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; STOCKS AND BONDS; VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS; COMPANY REPORTS; MUTUAL FUNDS ; PENSIONS SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); EMBEZZLEMENT (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); RETAILERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); ACCOUNTING (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); DEREGULATION (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LAWYERS (72%); CLASS ACTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



662 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Calm Currency Response to Vote

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Hunched over a bank of glowing and blinking computer terminals, Mark Slater, the head of foreign exchange trading at Merrill Lynch here, watched intently tonight for signs of tumult in the currency markets as the results trickled in for the French referendum on European unification.
Unlike trading in the last week, which saw Europe's monetary system nearly ripped apart, the currency markets remained relatively calm tonight in the wake of the narrow "yes" vote in France. The lira did not disintegrate. The franc did not plummet; in fact, it rose slightly against the mark. 
 And by the standards of the last few days, Mr. Slater and the dozen other Merrill Lynch traders on hand had a quiet evening.
 
Pound Continues Its Slide
 Only the hapless British pound, which has been sinking in the last week, continued to fall. Late this evening it was trading at 2.565 marks, down from 2.605 at Friday's close.
The outcome of the French vote increased the chances that the battered European monetary system, the centerpiece of the region's push to create a truly unified market, could be held together after being imperiled by last week's currency upheavals. But it did not eradicate the underlying economic strains that created the currency crisis in the first place.
Mr. Slater and others predicted that Europe's weaker currencies, particularly the Italian lira, would remain vulnerable in the coming week as the European Community tries to salvage its system of stable exchange rates and currency values.
"You're going to see a lot of pressure, and it will hit the lira first when Italy tries to come back into the exchange-rate mechanism," Mr. Slater said. Italy withdrew from the system on Thursday, a day after Britain did the same.
But economists said the vote in France would give a second chance to the European monetary system.
[Meeting in Washington on Sunday, European economic ministers issued a brief statement predicting that the French vote would "ease tension in the foreign exchange markets," and they expressed their commitment to the European monetary system.]
The push to create a single currency and a unified monetary policy, however, will almost certainly proceed at a slower pace than originally envisioned by European Community officials, and perhaps without the full participation of Britain and other economically weak nations.
"The exchange-rate mechanism can certainly go forward, but not in the same way it had until a few weeks ago," said Christian Dunis, the senior currency strategist for Chemical Bank in London.
Paul Temperton, the director of European economic research at Merrill Lynch, said the vote was a major calming influence. "I think the result of this is that the exchange rate mechanism holds together without a major realignment of currency values," he said.
The monetary system could still collapse, particularly if another nation, like Britain, fails to ratify the unification treaty -- a distinct possibility given the extremely slim margin of victory in France, which has always been far more pro-European than Britain.
But the most likely scenario now, economists and government officials say, is that the core group of European nations with the strongest currencies -- Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and perhaps France -- will tie their monetary policies even more tightly together and move ahead toward a single currency.
Another group of nations will keep their currencies more loosely linked to the core group. Instead of focusing on monetary unification, those nations, including Britain, Spain, Portugal and Italy, will focus on getting their own economies in order.
Britain, for example, which suspended participation in the monetary system last week after the pound was driven down sharply in value, has signaled that it will now lower interest rates to stimulate its moribund economy, even though that means the pound will sink even lower.
In cutting rates, Britain would be putting the needs of its domestic economy ahead of its commitment to Europe's system of maintaining stable exchange rates as a precursor to monetary union.
In the currency markets, the most immediate beneficiary of the vote was the French franc.
Analysts had said that a "no" vote would have left the franc facing the speculative pressure from currency traders that had led last week to the devaluations of the British pound, the Italian lira and the Spanish peseta. The "yes" vote, they said, suggested that there would not be a broad-based devaluation of European currencies.
Indeed, the franc strengthened against the German mark in trading immediately after the announcement of the vote tonight. Compared with the recent rate of 3.43 francs to the mark, the mark was fetching 3.39 to 3.40 francs tonight.
But traders said attention would now focus once again on other weak currencies, including the pound and the lira. The pound fell slightly in value relative to the mark tonight as traders bet that Britain would reduce its interest rates, making investments in pounds less lucrative.
 
Attention Turns to Italy
 The next big test for the currency markets, Merrill Lynch executives said, will come over the next several days as Italy tries to rejoin the exchange rate agreement, which it was forced to drop out of last week after the lira plummeted in value.
Mr. Slater said that despite the calm tonight, traders remain skeptical that the lira will be able to maintain its value against the German mark, even after having been devalued last week by 7 percent. He said that if speculators sold enough lire to drive the currency's value down so far that it had to be devalued again before it could be given a sustainable exchange-rate ratio with the mark, the result could be a chain of devaluations of the Spanish peseta, the Portuguese escudo and the Irish punt.
Italy said last week that it plans to rejoin the exchange rate mechanism on Tuesday.
"The question for the peseta and the escudo and the punt is how the lira comes back into the exchange-rate mechanism," Mr. Temperton said. "If the trading here is any indication, it's possible the lira could come back in with no devaluation, and that would be very important to the future of the monetary system."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Slater, a trader for Merrill Lynch, is among those who predict that Europe's weaker currencies will be vulnerable in the coming week as the European Community tries to stabilize its currencies. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Graphs: "A Wild Week" shows the amount of currencies and results in stock markets in France, Germany, Britain, Italy, U.S. and Japan. (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); CHEMICAL BANK (51%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; GERMANY; EUROPE FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; TREATIES CURRENCIES (93%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REFERENDUMS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



663 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: TURMOIL IN EUROPE;
World Bank Vows to Weigh Environmental Effect of Projects

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The World Bank said today that it would aggressively assess the environmental impact of many of its development projects in poor countries and that it would add "environmental components" to existing and new projects if the concerns seem well founded.
The environmental goals were outlined in the bank's annual report, which was released today. The report comes as environmental advocacy groups are accusing the bank of negligence toward the environment and the indigenous people affected by bank projects. 
 The bank, which provides more than $20 billion a year in aid to poor countries, said it would give borrowing nations advice on poverty reduction as well as help them set environmental priorities and goals. The Global Environmental Facility, a joint enterprise of the United Nations and the bank, will also be used to finance conferences on global environmental concerns.
"We are in a transition now from phase one to phase two," Mohammed al-Ashry, director of the bank's environment department, said at a news conference today. "The first phase was to stop doing the bad things. The second involves policies and procedures which help our borrowers with their struggle in sustainable development."
 
Environment Funds Fall
 Despite this, bank lending for environmental projects was $1.2 billion for the 1992 fiscal year, down from $1.6 billion the previous year. When asked about this, Mr. Ashry said, "I wouldn't look at it in that context, because the number of projects with environmental components is up, so it is difficult to put a dollar amount on it." He also said more loans were approved after June 30, when the fiscal year ended.
The bank has drawn criticism for instances of what Mr. Ashry called "bad things," particularly its huge dam project in the Narmada River Valley in India. The bank became involved with the Government irrigation and hydroelectric project in 1985.
Critics said the project would dislocate 1.5 million Indians and do irreversible harm to land and wildlife. Environmental and human rights groups also charged that protesters against the project had often been physically intimidated by the police.
So loud was the criticism of the project that the bank ordered an independent review and will make a decision regarding its future on Oct. 1.
"Overall I feel that the bank is not reformable in terms of the environment," said Lori Udall, the staff attorney for the Environmental Defense Fund in Washington. "They have co-opted environmental language, but if you look at the gap between what they say they are doing and what is really happening on the ground, there is a huge gap. True, the assessment process has been improved, but the problem is that is never implemented, and the people living in an area never have enough information or freedom to challenge these projects."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (94%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) WORLD BANK (94%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RIVERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



664 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Mexicans Look Askance at Textbooks' New Slant

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 20

 BODY:
For 20 years, Mexican fourth graders have been taught that Porfirio Diaz, the turn-of-the-century dictator, "was very bad for the life of Mexico, because the people were not given the chance to elect their leaders."
This month they began to learn that, despotism aside, Diaz achieved stability and peace, tolerated the Roman Catholic Church, built railroads, fostered industrial growth and attracted foreign investment. 
 Among historians, such revisionism is standard fare. Since it hit the fourth grade, however, it has detonated a political scandal in which educators, intellectuals and opposition legislators have all accused the Government of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of rewriting the country's history to suit its political needs.
The charges range from rehabilitating Diaz, a man who the critics say was like Mr. Salinas in putting economic reform first, democracy second, to painting warts on the once-heroic peasant revolutionary Emiliano Zapata, a patron saint of those who oppose the President's agricultural changes.
 
The Essence of the Nation
 But even where the changes are minor, they have prompted some reactions strong enough to challenge the notion that the power of Mexico's past has faded with the rapid economic changes that the Salinas Administration has introduced.
In the new texts for fourth, fifth and sixth graders -- as in Mexican society -- "what is in dispute is the very essence of the nation," exclaimed Luis Javier Garrido, a lawyer and political analyst.
Education officials say that as part of their long-overdue modernization of the country's public education system, they simply tried to update and improve the texts that are distributed to all private and public schools. If the new books have included a revisionist view or two, they add, it is only because those interpretations have gained currency since the last ones were written in 1972.
Yet while the Government has backed away from confrontation, promising to rewrite the texts again for next year, the uproar has held stubbornly to he front pages of Mexico City newspapers.
It has seemed to reinvigorate Latin America's biggest union, that of Mexican teachers, only a few months after some Government technocrats were toasting its decline. It has focused new scrutiny on official procurement practices. And it has clouded the political future of the Education Secretary, Ernesto Zedillo, who had been considered a strong contender for the presidency.
"There are not a lot of other places where this could go on," said Enrique Krauze, a historian and essayist who has joined energetically in the polemics.
 
A Change in Approach
 Before Mr. Salinas, Mexican Presidents tended to treat the country's history as an essential tool of government. Luis Echeverria, who governed from 1970 to 1976, dedicated each year of his administration to a different historical figure. His successor, Jose Lopez Portillo, identified himself with the white god of pre-Hispanic Indians, Quetzalcoatl. President Miguel de la Madrid, who preceded Mr. Salinas, chose Jose Maria Morelos, the rebel priest who wrote Mexico's first Constitution, as his semi-official hero.
The previous Government texts, issued under Mr. Echeverria in 1972, set off conservatives with laudatory accounts of Fidel Castro's Cuba, Salvador Allende's Chile, and other causes of the third world. But they included virtually nothing of the revisionist currents that were then gaining strength among students of Mexican history.
By emphasizing the country's economic modernization under Diaz, critics say, the new histories show a subtle bias toward Mr. Salinas's own priorities. By citing the shortcomings of revolutionary heroes like Zapata, they contend, the books support the Government's recent changes in the land-tenure system that had long been celebrated as a revolutionary achievement.
The debate has taken little account of the treatment the new books give the Spanish conquest. The earlier social science texts described it as violent and seemingly unjust, but also in some ways positive for the indigenous peoples. The new sixth-grade history book describes the years following the conquest as "terrible," and recounts that for three centuries Indian peoples "resisted" efforts to wipe away their cultural traditions.
The sharpest critics of the books have focused on their depiction of more recent events. Although the texts offer the first mention of the 1968 army massacre of scores of students in Mexico City, for example, the critics note that they avoid mentioning that the Government ordered soldiers to confront the protesters and skirt the still-contentious issue of how many died.
 
No Mention of Fraud Charges
 While a later chapter notes that Mr. Salinas was declared the winner of a hard-fought election in 1988 with little more than half the votes, it skips the fact that many thought he won by fraud. And though the chapter mentions Mr. Salinas's antipoverty program, his educational changes and his restoration of economic growth, it makes no mention of his leftist rival Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, the most important opposition figure in the country's modern history.
Hector Aguilar Camin, a historian who was one of two main editors of the new textbooks, described the dispute over their contemporary history as "a trivial issue."
Like Government education officials, Mr. Aguilar Camin, the leader of a group of intellectuals who often advise and publicly support the Salinas Administration, denied that the books represented official history. But one of the country's leading historians, Jean Meyer, told the news magazine Proceso that the chapter he contributed to the textbooks on 20th-century Mexico was rewritten without his consent to include some of Mr. Salinas's achievements. His co-author, Mr. Meyer said, was Mr. Aguilar Camin.
In interviews as they wound down with video games from morning classes at the Luis Murillo primary school in downtown Mexico City, consumers of the new sixth-grade books had their own complaints.
"This book has more pictures than information," sniffed Christian Opengo Ruiz, an 11-year-old who aspires to become a veterinarian. She added, "We are Mexicans; we care about what happened in the past."
With prompting, the students did not mention the new historical treatment of Porfirio Diaz, 1968, or Mr. Salinas. There was, however, a consensus that not enough had been written about the "Boy Heroes," the teen-age military cadets reputed to have fallen in 1847 against the invading American troops of Gen. Winfield Scott. (In public speeches this week, Mr. Salinas appeared finally to have found new historical figures with whom to associate: Los Ninos Heroes.
 
'It Seems Like Sacrilege'
 To some observers, the textbooks controversy has highlighted the fact that while the Salinas Government has gained support for its policies, particularly those dealing with the economy, it continues to suffer from the lack of credibility that plagued its predecessors.
To others, the episode has underscored a subtle fact of the changes that Mr. Salinas has fostered in Mexico: while his Administration has challenged policies and institutions established after the 1910 revolution, it has taken care to leave many of the beliefs that have held the country together since then alone.
"Myths that the country and the world have left behind have yet to be demolished in political speech and public education," Mr. Aguilar Camin said. "Today, when what is conventional academic wisdom passes into the public debate, it seems like sacrilege."
Yet criticism of the books only begins with their interpretation of the past.
Educators have attacked their didactic quality. Historians have pointed out errors of basic fact. And political columnists have feasted on disclosures about the deals by which the Government assigned the writing of the textbooks to a foundation run partly by Mr. Aguilar Camin and had them printed without offering the contract for public bid.
 
Accountability Is Noted
 But even some of the critics note that the new histories have been victims in part of political forces that Mr. Salinas has helped to strengthen.
Twenty years ago, when the country's social science texts were last revised, it would hardly have occurred to many Government critics to insist that the job be opened to public bids. That powerful businessmen, influential academics and corrupt officials would profit was taken for granted.
"All of this is very symptomatic of the fact that this society is changing," Mr. Krauze said. "People have started to insist on accountability, and I don't think that has happened before."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sixth graders in Colonia Ramos Millan in Mexico City reviewing a lesson from a new Mexican history textbook. The text describes Porfirio Diaz's dictatorship at the turn of the century in a newly positive light. (Sergio Dorantes for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; HISTORY; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEXTBOOKS POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); HISTORY (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RELIGION (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); WRITERS (63%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (56%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES); CARDENAS, CUAUHTEMOC CARLOS SALINAS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



665 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: TURMOIL IN EUROPE;
British Leader Faces Revolt on Europe Union Policy in Own Party

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
With the treaty on European union having won a narrow endorsement from French voters today, a new battlefront seems certain to open in Britain, where Prime Minister John Major's Government is facing a spreading rebellion over European policy in the ranks of his Conservative Party.
Spurred on by last week's financial turmoil in Britain, which sent the value of the pound tumbling, those skeptical of European integration here say it is now up to them to derail the movement toward European union and drive a British stake through the heart of the treaty, which is awaiting ratification in the House of Commons.
 
Summit Meeting Called
 
 "We in Britain have got our own choice to make," Michael Spicer, a Conservative Party critic of the treaty, said tonight. "We cannot rely on the French to make the choice for us."
Critics of European union in both the Conservative and the rival Labor parties also pressed the Government tonight to put their case for the treaty before voters in a referendum, just as in France.
Speaking tonight, Mr. Major repeated his support for the treaty as good for Britain and Europe. Mr. Major, now serving as President of the European Commission, a revolving post, also called a summit meeting of European Community leaders for early next month, presumably in London.
The debate over the treaty will be joined in earnest on Thursday, when Parliament reconvenes in a special session for an emergency debate on the economy. It is not clear, however, when the treaty will come before the House of Commons for ratification.
Mr. Major also said tonight that he was uncertain when he would reopen debate in Parliament, because he is waiting to see if European leaders can persuade Denmark to reconsider its rejection of the treaty. Danes voted it down in a referendum last spring.
All 12 member nations of the European Community must ratify the treaty, a blueprint for closer political and economic cooperation, if it is to take effect.
The rebellion over Europe could further imperil the political leadership of Mr. Major, who is already under fire for his embarrassing reversal of policy last week, when he abandoned efforts to preserve the value of the struggling British pound in the European monetary system. The pound has since dropped sharply in value.
Treaty opponents say about 100 backbenchers - nearly a third of the party's strength in Commons - will join their movement.
Opponents of European integration in Britain were emboldened over the weekend by what they described as growing signs of public doubt here.
A poll of 1,063 voters appearing today in The Independent on Sunday, a British newspaper, showed a 2-to-1 margin against the treaty. Forty-seven percent said they would vote against the treaty, if given the chance in a referendum, and only 24 percent said they would vote yes. Twenty-nine percent were undecided.
Critics were also cheered Saturday by the return to the battlefield of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, a longtime skeptic on European integration.
On Saturday, in a speech delivered in Washington, Mrs. Thatcher called for a halt to what she described as the "European gravy train," and restated her explicit opposition to the treaty, which Mr. Major and other European leaders signed this year in Maastricht, the Netherlands.
Trying to exploit the growing rift in Conservative ranks, Gordon Brown, the Labor Party spokesman on economic affairs, warned darkly that the Tories were "lurching into a new anti-Europeanism."
But the Labor leadership faces a rebellion of its own. Bryan Gould, one of the party's top officials, has urged the Labor leadership to let the British people decide for themselves about European union in a referendum.
There was some good news today for Mr. Major and Norman Lamont, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Two public opinion samplings published in London newspapers showed that two-thirds of British voters favored the Prime Minister's staying in office. Slightly more voters were in favor of Mr. Lamont's staying on than favored his resigning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); FRANCE (93%); DENMARK (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); FRANCE (93%); DENMARK (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (89%); BRITISH POUND (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E; MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN) MARGARET THATCHER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



666 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Overview;
Day of Brawling for Presidential Camps

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
On a day of testy partisan squabbling, Gov. Bill Clinton televised the first negative commercial of the fall Presidential campaign today, painting President Bush as an unrealistic leader who talked about prosperity while the economy tumbled into recession.
Vice President Dan Quayle found himself answering new questions about his military record and trying to avoid discussing the Republican Party's anti-abortion stand and Mr. Bush's agreement to the 1990 tax increase, as the campaigns traded accusations on the draft, the economy and taxes. 
 The two camps also remained locked in a circular argument over debates. Each side is insisting on holding Presidential and Vice-Presidential debates on its own terms and accusing the other of being afraid of what both call a "man-to-man" confrontation.
 
Attacks on Credibility
 Both Presidential camps sought to use the day to undermine their opponent's credibility. The Democrats told Americans that Mr. Bush, who has insisted for at least two years that the economy is on the verge of recovery and still has not acknowledged how sluggish it really is, can no longer be trusted.
"If George Bush doesn't understand the problem, how can he solve it?" the Clinton commercial said, using film clips of Mr. Bush sounding upbeat about the economy. Some of the clips were presented out of sequence to the events they were intended to illustrate.
The Republicans, signaling that they intended to respond to Mr. Clinton's commercial with advertisements of their own criticizing the Arkansas Governor, continued to pound away at his draft record, which White House strategists have made the center of their assault on the Democratic nominee's character.
But Mr. Quayle also found himself on the defensive on the draft issue in an extraordinary, hourlong appearance on the NBC News program "Meet the Press."
Mr. Quayle dismissed an article in The New York Times today about his service in the National Guard as a "rehash." The article repeated Mr. Quayle's assertion that he sought the advice of relatives before joining the Guard. But it also disclosed that the unit in which he enlisted was holding slots for people of influence at a time when Washington had ordered all National Guard units to accept enlistees on a first-come, first-served basis.
Mr. Quayle has said his decision to join the Indiana National Guard 23 years ago "wasn't to avoid going to Vietnam." But he acknowledged today that he knew there was far less chance of going to war if he was in the Guard. He said that he sought no special favors and that "no rules were broken, no regulations broken."
The Vice President tried to steer away from the specific question of service in Vietnam, on which he is as vulnerable to criticism as Mr. Clinton, and to stay on the Republicans' designated target: the question of whether Mr. Clinton has been completely forthcoming on how he avoided the draft.
"I don't think that military service one way or another is a definitive character issue on whether you can be a good Commander in Chief or not," he said. Mr. Quayle said Mr. Clinton had "not told the truth" and added, "That is the issue that qualifies him or disqualifies him in my judgment from being Commander in Chief."
Mr. Bush himself stayed out of the campaign fray. But he took advantage of a meeting in Washington of the International Monetary Fund to appear before television cameras at the White House as host to an international group of finance ministers and state bank officials.
 
'Do-Nothing Administration'
 Mr. Clinton was out on the trail courting Democrats who voted for Mr. Bush in 1988 in mostly white suburban Detroit and helping to register voters at a mostly black rally in the South Side of Chicago.
Mr. Clinton urged the Chicago audience to register to vote and to show up at the polls to end the "12 years of trickle-down economics" he said had left Americans "working harder for less."
In Macomb County, Mich., where he was greeted by a boisterous crowd of people, many of them carrying signs declaring their affiliation with labor unions, Mr. Clinton said those who voted for Mr. Bush in 1988 were "betrayed" by a President who broke his promise not to raise taxes and sought a cut in the capital gains tax rate that would benefit the wealthy.
"They talk about traditional values, but they punish people who work hard and play by the rules and reward people who cut corners and cut deals," he said, adding: "This is a do-nothing Administration that will do nothing for four more years if we are foolish enough to give it to them. And I don't think we are."
Mr. Clinton's oratory followed the track of the two commercials that his campaign began broadcasting today, one of them focusing exclusively on criticisms of Mr. Bush, with emphasis on his economic performance.
Torie Clarke, Mr. Bush's campaign press secretary, said: "Nobody disputes the fact that the economy has not grown as fast as we would like or that not enough good jobs have been created. We're saying that the most important issue in this election is not just the state of the economy, but what do you do about it."
She called the commercial a "diversionary tactic to get away from answering any questions about the draft issue" and said of Mr. Bush's opponent, "He is slowly bleeding to death on this one as lie after lie after lie by Bill Clinton is revealed."
The Bush team itself was clearly more intent on changing the subject, talking about Mr. Clinton and the draft rather than the current state of the economy.
In his appearance on NBC this morning, Mr. Quayle tried to deflect questions about the tax increase of 1990, asserting that Mr. Bush had been forced to agree to the increase in October of that year because of the Persian Gulf crisis.
"He had an international crisis," Mr. Quayle said. "He could ill afford another crisis at home, which probably would have happened by him not going along with that negotiated deal."
But Mr. Bush first agreed to raise taxes in June 1990, and Iraq's invasion of Kuwait was in August. Other accounts also dispute Mr. Quayle's assertion. A senior official who was present during the Administration's deliberations on the war and the Federal budget has said Mr. Bush never drew a connection between the two issues.
Mr. Quayle, who has been trying to strike a more middle-of-the-road position on abortion than he has taken in the past, also grew evidently uncomfortable when asked about it. Although Mr. Quayle said he remained personally opposeed to abortion, he refused to say whether it should be banned outright, as the Republican platform, Mr. Bush's own stated position and Mr. Quayle himself have demanded.
Instead, Mr. Quayle tried to focus on laws, like one in Pennsylvania, that limit access to abortions. "I'm trying to change attitudes," he said. "I'm trying to change behavior."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton arriving yesterday at a college in Warren, Mich. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (65%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (65%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%); INDIANA NATIONAL GUARD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%); INDIANA NATIONAL GUARD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (65%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; ADVERTISING; DEBATING; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); MILITARY RECRUITING (77%); VIETNAM WAR (77%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ABORTION (56%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



667 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Pulse -- Colorado;
Anti-Bush Sentiment Could Break Colorado's Tradition of Loyalty to G.O.P.

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DENVER, Sept. 16

 BODY:
The last time Colorado voted for a Democrat for President was back in 1964, when Lyndon B. Johnson was the candidate. The next time could be this November.
President Bush is trailing Gov. Bill Clinton in this Rocky Mountain state, according to the most recent polls, and although there is still time for Mr. Bush to catch up, it will not be easy. He is widely seen here, even by some Republicans, as "a failed President, out of ideas and out of steam," said Thomas Cronin, a professor at Colorado College and a leading authority on the Presidency. 
 Colorado counts. Not because of its electoral votes (it has only eight), and not because it is a bellwether. It counts because it epitomizes a perilous problem for Mr. Bush: with only six weeks left until Election Day, he has still not secured many of the states that ought to constitute his base. And it counts because it shows that even in states where the economy is on the upswing, as it is here after a painful recession in the mid-1980's, doubts about the nation's economic future are working against the President.
 
The President as Quarterback
 Mr. Bush has already made two trips here this month. He spoke in the Denver suburbs on Tuesday, comparing himself not to Harry S. Truman but to another come-from-behind specialist, John Elway, the Denver Broncos' quarterback, and depicting his Democratic opponent, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, as a dyed-in-the-wool liberal who favors "more government intrusion, more regulation and more spending."
It was a high-risk attempt to capitalize on this region's mistrust of government. Colorado, the only state in the Union with a term-limitation law applicable to Congress, has long harbored suspicions toward Washington, but so far this year the President has been the main focus of what one Republican here calls "a storm of cynicism and disillusionment."
The Democrats are also pressing unusually hard in Colorado, with separate visits scheduled this week by Mr. Clinton; his wife, Hillary; his running-mate, Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, and the party's national chairman, Ronald H. Brown.
 
Very Independent State
 "People here are saying, 'Well, it's certainly not morning in America any more,' " acknowledged Howard (Bo) Callaway, a former Army Secretary and one-time state Republican chairman. "But they don't trust Clinton. That's why the draft issue matters. The President has said he isn't perfect, that he's made mistakes, that the economy's bad. What we have to do now is convince people it will get worse -- a whole lot worse -- if the Democrats win."
That approach, Mr. Callaway said, gave the Conservatives in Britain a surprise victory earlier this year and could do the same for Mr. Bush in Colorado and in the nation.
Senator Hank Brown, a Republican moderate, describes Colorado as "one of the most independent states in the country" with no deep-seated allegiances to either party. It has a Republican Senator and a Democratic Senator, a Republican-dominated Legislature and a Democratic Governor. Its House delegation is evenly split. It has long been viewed as a bastion of abortion rights, yet it has cut off all state financing for abortions.
Chock full of young, well-educated and technologically sophisticated people, many of whom came here because of the mountains and the fresh air, the state has propelled onto the national stage such figures as former Senator Gary Hart and retiring Senator Tim Wirth, both new-breed Democrats.
Colorado's habit of voting Republican for President is ingrained; Robert Ewegen, a Denver Post columnist, said, "A lot of people think it's in our state Constitution that we go Republican in Presidential elections."
But Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts, a weak candidate nationally, lost to Mr. Bush by less than 10 percentage points four years ago. And moderate Democrats like Gov. Roy Romer and Representative Ben Nighthorse Campbell are now the state's most popular breed of politician, which should augur well for Governor Clinton.
 
Conscious of the Environment
 "Democrats here are changing," Mr. Romer said in an interview the other day, pulling from his briefcase a thoroughly annotated study of strategies to cut spending. "We used to be identified with the safety net and redistribution of wealth, but we've become involved with growth and budget control. There's no point in arguing about how to cut up the economic pie when the pie is shrinking so fast that it won't even feed everybody.
"Clinton understands that, and it is helping him in this state."
In addition, Colorado's baby boomers are intensely conscious of the environment, and Mr. Wirth argued that the presence of Mr. Gore on the ticket, with his credentials as one of the Senate's leading environmentalists, was helping Mr. Clinton to "hammer the President on that issue." Earlier this week Mr. Bush vowed to block renewal of the Endangered Species Act unless it took jobs into account, a position that widened the gap between himself and the Democrats.
But the Republican National Convention may have made Mr. Bush and his party look unacceptably extreme to swing voters in the Denver suburbs.
The attacks on homosexuals and on Mrs. Clinton, and the absolutist opposition to abortion that marked the Houston convention, Mr. Romer said, haven't gone down very well with "our pro-choice, two-job yuppies, who tend to be conservative on fiscal issues but libertarian on social questions."
 
Oppressive on Family Values
 Former Senator Bill Armstrong, a fiscally conservative Republican who thinks Mr. Bush has a chance to carry Colorado if he can articulate his program, agreed with the Governor on the party's convention. "For my taste the family values stuff was pretty heavy-handed," Mr. Armstrong said. "In terms of style, it went too far for most people in this state."
But it suited the religious right perfectly, and the religious right has come to play a powerful role within the Republican Party. Representative David E. Skaggs, a Democrat who represents the Boulder area, faces a challenge this fall from Bryan Day, a fundamentalist minister who won a tight primary race. Foes of abortion also ousted several prominent Republican supporters of abortion rights, including State Senator Bonnie Allison, in the primaries.
But in the end, said Mr. Cronin, the Colorado College professor, neither the religious right nor the environmentalists will decide the election. With memories of hard times four and five years ago still fresh, he said, "out of 10 factors that are going to influence this election, the economy is 1, 2, 3 and 4."
The attacks on the President's economic stewardship by Patrick J. Buchanan in the early primaries and by Ross Perot after that, Mr. Cronin added, "hurt Bush more than most people realize, by peeling off supporters who have found it very difficult since then to return to the fold."
Mr. Perot had the backing of close to a quarter of Colorado voters when he pulled out of the race in July, and he retains a highly visible campaign office in downtown Denver. If he reactivates his campaign, he may tip the result here one way or the other.
Even if he does not, his erstwhile backers may hold the key. A poll for The Denver Post, taken Aug. 21 to Sept. 1, showed an eight-point lead for Mr. Clinton, 45 percent to 37 percent, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four points. But 11 percent of the 618 respondents said they were undecided and 7 percent declined to respond, and politicians of both parties suspect that many of them were former Perot supporters who dislike the President but still find themselves loath to give Mr. Clinton a chance at the job.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Doubts about the nation's economic future are weakening support for President Bush in Colorado, even among traditional Republicans. Dr. R. D. Carrell, bottom left, shown at a Bush rally last week in a Denver suburb, said that he would probably vote for Gov. Bill Clinton; Colorado last voted for a Democratic Presidential nominee in 1964, but recent polls show Gov. Bill Clinton with an eight-point lead over President Bush. A crowd of about 30,000 showed up last week for a lunch-hour appearance by Mr. Clinton in Denver. (Photographs by Brian Brainerd for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "A Mind of Its Own"
 Colorado goes its own way. It has term limits for its politicans, but it has elected liberals like Gary Hart and Tim Wirth to the Senate. Now Ben Highthorse Campbell, the only American Indian in Congress, who angers environmentalists with his emphasis on jobs, is the Democratic Senate nominee.
 
Colorado -- Electoral votes: 8
 
Population
 1980: 2,889,964
 White 89.0%
 Black 3.5%
 Other 7.9%
 (Hispanic origin 11.8%*)
 1990: 3,294,394
 White 88.2%
 Black 4.0%
 Other 7.7%
 (Hispanic origin 12.9%*)
Registered Voters
 1988: 2,037,435
 As of Dec. 31
 Unaffiliated 36.5%
 Republicans 32.9%
 Democrats 30.5%
 1992: 1,804,635
 As of July 17
 Unaffiliated 31.7%
 Republicans 34.7%
 Democrats 33.5%
 
How Colorado Has Voted in Presidential Elections
 1976
 Ford 54.0%
 Carter 42.6%
 1980
 Reagan 55.1%
 Carter 31.1%
 1984
 Reagan 63.4%
 Mondale 35.1%
 1988
 Bush 53.1%
 Dukakis 45.3%
 
Per Capita Income
 1991 figures are the most recent available and are not adjusted for inflation
 1988
 Colorado $16,663
 U.S. $16,618
 1991
 Colorado $19,358
 U.S. $19,092
 
Unemployment
 July 1988
 Colorado 5.9%
 U.S. 5.4%
 July 1992
 Colorado 6.2%
 U.S. 7.7%
 
(Sources: Census Bureau; America Votes; Colorado Election Commission; Colorado Department of Labor and Employment; U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis; Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (95%); WEST USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (63%); DENVER BRONCOS (84%); DENVER BRONCOS (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DENVER BRONCOS (84%); DENVER BRONCOS (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLORADO UNITED STATES (95%); COLORADO, USA (95%); WEST USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ATHLETES (71%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (66%); SPORTS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); ARMIES (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



668 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Moscow Journal;
Where Tourists Rummage in Communism's Attic

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The Arbat, Moscow's half-mile pedestrian mall, is Russia's capital of "poshlost," but amid the dross are scattered treasures and a glimpse of how the new market economy, bribe ridden, actually functions.
Vladimir Nabokov, who should have known, declared "poshlost" untranslatable. It encompasses banality, triviality and kitsch, with a crucial added dash of vulgarity. 
 Poshlost is the 975th set of matryoshki, the one-inside-the-other wooden dolls, shaped like bowling pins, with a vacant "happy face" on each. It is the imitation Palekh box, the black-lacquered papier-mache knickknack with a fairy tale painted on the top. It is the "McLenin" T-shirt, with the Soviet patriarch's face imposed on the Golden Arches, or the Lenin candle, a carved wax bust with a wick coming out of its glistening dome, perfectly precious for just the wrong dinner party.
Every society sells junk to foreign tourists for whatever price can be had. But Arbat poshlost has a special poignancy. In the market for a Soviet colonel-general's dress uniform with all the trimmings, including a used white shirt? Bought from a needy widow, it can be yours for 10,000 rubles ($49), subject to bargaining. The seller, Dmitri, said the widow, if she were lucky, got 2,000 rubles for it.
 
'Generals Cost More'
 "It's just old fabric," Dmitri said. "We've got kids and wives and I haven't been paid my salary for two months." A factory worker, he wore a N.F.L. windbreaker intended for a St. Louis (now Phoenix) Cardinals fan. And how much did that cost? "Six thousand rubles," he said proudly.
Aleksei Sarokin, 20 years old, sells uniforms from any service, including the K.G.B., with its cornflower-blue lapel flashes. A colonel's uniform is about $50, a dress uniform $80. "Generals cost more," Mr. Sarokin said.
Soldiers' greatcoats are common, only $15, and ordinary winter hats, of fake fur, $7. Officers' winter hats, of gray rabbit, are $15. A MIG pilot's helmet, Steve Canyon-style, is $120 with oxygen mask, $100 without.
"Some officers bring these uniforms themselves," Mr. Sarokin said, "but mainly it's their wives." Unsurprisingly here, where tour buses come, he sells almost exclusively to foreigners, especially young Americans.
Asked if he felt any shame, he and his colleagues shrugged. "Sometimes people yell at us," he said. "Sometimes they ask if we've served in the army." Have they? They laughed, shaking their heads.
"We don't think it's something sacred," said a burly blond in aviator sunglasses. "After all, our state is selling secrets abroad, and the officers themselves come and sell these clothes." What bothers him is the sale of icons nearby. "These are purely Russian and have artistic value," he said. "And we're sorry for it."
Another colleague, a student, wore a Buffalo Bills sweatshirt and a New York Giants jacket. "Mostly students sell here," he said. They get a monthly government stipend of 1,000 rubles ($4.88). "Who can live on that?"
In three years on the Arbat, he has found the highest profit in uniforms: "If you pay 3,000 rubles for a matryoshka, you can sell it for only 6,000. But for every 100 invested in uniforms you get 1,000 to 2,000 back."
Mr. Sarokin hires a student to sell on weekdays. "So you have an employee?" He laughed. "I suppose so." Students get 25 percent of the fixed price and any extra.
 
Militias Muscle In
 The Arbat is ruled by two gangs, one Russian and one from the Caucasus, who have split the street. Mr. Sarokin and his friends pay the gang members from the Caucasus $20 to $40 a month for each small folding table at their prime spot near the Prague Restaurant.
"We pay to get a sort of protection, so people leave us alone," one said. They are also supposed to pay 5,000 rubles a month to the city, and say they earn $400 to $500 a month in net profit per table.
Olga, 17, sells papier-mache boxes. Her best, a numbered one from Palekh (a village famous for its painters), is a minimum of $150. Her boss has fixed a $125 price, "and if I sell it for less than $25 profit for me, it's not worth it." Poorer boxes sell for $30.
Lately the sellers have also had to cope with a feud between the city and state militias, who want to control the Arbat and its riches. Last week, the city militia tried to close the street down, but failed. Now, like the gangs, they share it with their state colleagues.
 
$5,000 for a Banner
 Russia is still a country where people have the right to buy for hard currency, but not to sell for it. If the militiamen see a hard-currency sale, they can confiscate the proceeds. "They can't stop you on the street and turn out your pockets," said Aleksei, 22. "But if they see a sale, they can."
Sometimes the militiamen take the entire sum, sometimes half; sometimes they can be placated with a 250-ruble bottle of vodka.
Most students clear about 2,500 rubles ($12.20) a day, Olga said, though matryoshki sellers can make 5,000.
Sergei I. Suvorov, a businessman turned amateur historian, has the best Soviet memorabilia on the Arbat. He calls his store "a political antique shop of the socialist realism period." If he thinks you're serious, he'll invite you upstairs to his museum for tea.
On the street, he has pins, medals and banners of velvet, silk and nylon, usually praising Lenin and urging the workers of the world to unite, ranging from $5 to $200. One silk banner of Stalin and Lenin is $1,000; velvet ones worked in gold from the 1930's can cost $5,000.
Mr. Suvorov, 26, has started to take himself more seriously as a collector. Upstairs, he has banners from the first years of the Soviet Union. One from the first five-year plan shows a richly embroidered Lenin with the golden injunction, "Five years in four!
He has numerous portraits and statues of Stalin and the young Lenin, poring over a book. There are carpets given to the leadership, depicting rarer figures, like Rosa Luxemburg and Richard Sorge, a famed Soviet spy.
Mr. Suvorov hopes to start a real museum. "This is not all junk," he said. "This is history, and people come from all over the world to see it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Souvenirs of the Communist era are offered for sale on the Arbat, a pedestrian mall in Moscow that offers foreigners a glimpse of one part of Russia's new market economy. A MIG pilot's helmet is offered for $120. (Bill Swersey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; MOSCOW (RUSSIA) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: NYTRAVEL UNIFORM STORES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); ARMIES (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN VLADIMIR NABOKOV (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



669 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Against Odds, Revival For Troubled College

BYLINE: By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST ORANGE, N.J., Sept. 16

 BODY:
When Robert E. Karsten took over as president of Upsala College here in 1988, he was often told that he faced one insurmountable hurdle in trying to revive a rapidly failing institution.
Since the 1967 riots in Newark, East Orange, Upsala's home, once a quiet, white suburb, had become a largely black city with a reputation similar to Newark's as a dangerous place. People were not sending their children here to college, and the common wisdom went that people would never send them here again. 
 Upsala had rapidly been losing enrollment, from a peak of 1,400 full-time day students in 1969 to 475 in 1990. What's more, the college had accumulated a $10 million deficit. Projections made in August 1990 showed that by June 1992 there would be no more money and Upsala College would have to close.
But Dr. Karsten, the former provost of Capital University in Columbus, Ohio, was brought in to turn Upsala around, and he promptly began to do just that -- partly by considering East Orange an advantage, not a disadvantage. Last year there were 674 full-time students; this year there are 882, many of them members of minority groups or foreign students.
A major fund-raising effort increased gift-giving by $1 million in the first six months of 1992, and an unusual consortium of lenders from church, private and public interests assembled a $4 million deal to provide the college with working capital.
 
Finding Strengths
 While much still needs to be done to assure Upsala's future, at a time when many colleges and universities nationwide are facing financial difficulty, Upsala's story is one example of how a college can buck the odds.
"It's all a matter of recognizing what your strengths are and taking advantage of them," said Dr. Karsten, a 62-year-old Lutheran minister who has also been a vice president, dean and professor of religion at Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter, Minn., and the pastor of Wittenberg University in Springfield, Ohio. "But our strengths had changed over the years, and the college had not found a way to make an accurate assessment of where its strengths were."
 
Lutheran Affiliation
 Upsala (pronounced Up-SAH-la, after the Swedish university with which it maintains ties) is an independent, four-year liberal arts college affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the largest Lutheran group in the United States. Its campus, a 46-acre expanse of red-brick buildings and spacious lawns, is in a residential neighborhood just off the Garden State Parkway. The school has 22 programs leading to the bachelor's degree, plus master's and continuing education programs.
For many years the college had depended on Lutheran churches along the Eastern seaboard to recruit students.
But in recent decades those recruiting efforts waned, Dr. Karsten said, and Upsala did not react quickly enough to fill the void. When he arrived, Dr. Karsten increased recruiting efforts across the board.
 
Diversity as a Strategy
 "Diversity has become a centerpiece of our strategy," Dr. Karsten said. "And not just in terms of black and white. It's what a college should be these days anyway." The student body of Upsala in 1992, he said, is about 35 percent white, 35 percent black and 30 percent foreign students.
"We have a program in which 15 Jewish students from the states of the former Soviet Union come here," he said. "We have a continuing exchange program with Uppsala University in Sweden. We have students from South Korea, Japan, China, Namibia -- a largely Lutheran country -- France, Jamaica. The ebb and flow of cultural differences is richer than anything I've ever seen."
 
High Retention Rate
 Upsala also participates in programs for disadvantaged students with low Scholastic Aptitude Test scores. Among the programs are the publicly financed New Jersey Educational Opportunity Fund, which this year is helping to provide an education for 121 youngsters at Upsala.
The retention rate for the program in the last year and a half has been more than 90 percent, Dr. Karsten said. "Our experience shows that most of the urban youngsters who we tend to think of as not being college material are indeed good learners," he said.
The college also runs a satellite program for 300 students on a rural campus in Sussex County.
At a time when many town-gown relationships are badly frayed, East Orange and Upsala have combined to form what appears to be a mutually beneficial admiration society.
"A community that has a college within its borders can maximize that relationship," said Mayor Cardell Cooper. "It gives the city a positive image, and it adds flavor to the city."
 
Bond Issue Planned
 Mayor Cooper said that he and other East Orange and Essex County officials had tentatively agreed to guarantee a bond issue that would provide $3.5 million for Upsala for capital improvements and the purchase of new equipment. Both Dr. Karsten and Mr. Cooper said that prospects for final approval this fall were good.
But Upsala needed money right away. So Dr. Karsten organized a consortium of church, private and public interests to provide loans to the school and to restructure Upsala's debt for working capital and capital improvements. The amount involved totals $4 million.
The consortium includes St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minn.; Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter, Minn.; Concordia College in Moorhead, Minn.; California Lutheran University in Thousand Oaks, Calif.; the Campus Ministry and Mission Development Funds of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America; the Marriott Corporation and the ServiceMaster Corporation, two of the college's creditors; the college's Calman Trust, and Midlantic National Bank and First Fidelity Bank.
After years of deficits, Dr. Karsten said, "We are now in a fiscal year in which we will show an operating gain." Tuition at the school for the 1991-92 academic year was $9,800.
 
Expanding Faculty
 And, at a time when many colleges and universities are cutting the size of their faculty, Upsala has added five positions to its teaching staff.
Students at Upsala this week said they enjoyed the campus. "What I like most is the ethnic diversity," said Karen Gayle, a 23-year-old junior from Ewarton, Jamaica. The allure for Michael Chechelnitsky, a 20-year-old senior from Moscow, was that "you can talk to the professors as long as you want, and they always will respond to you."
Bobbie Johnson, 35, a sophomore from East Orange, praised the instructors. "If you have any problems, even outside of your schoolwork, they have an open ear to listen and help you through," she said.
Faculty members, even those who said they did not support everything Dr. Karsten was doing, said Upsala had improved. Bassam Abed, an associate professor of anthropology, said, however, that he would like to see more emphasis on faculty development and improved salaries. And Bill Olson, an associate professor of economics, said that Upsala needed to increase enrollment even further.
Dr. Karsten said he knew that much more needed to be done. "But the perils are now standard perils," he said. "Our future is in our hands."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "It's all a matter of recognizing what your strengths are and taking advantage of them," said Robert E. Karsten, left, president of Upsala College, who has increased enrollment by considering Upsala's location in East Orange, N.J., an advantage. He spoke with students after the convocation. (F. N. Kinney for The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey, indicating Upsala College in East Orange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UPSALA COLLEGE UPSALA COLLEGE (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: UPSALA COLLEGE UPSALA COLLEGE (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST ORANGE (NJ) UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US) STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); WORKING CAPITAL (50%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN; KARSTEN, ROBERT E (DR)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



670 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Choosing Schools Through Fakery;
New York Parents Use Many Schemes for False Enrollment

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
Clara Woodson is a school guidance supervisor in Brooklyn but, she told a Jamaican mother and her little boy sitting edgily in her office last week, in an earlier life she was a detective.
So when the Jamaican woman insisted that she had recently returned to New York City from California and was living with a friend two blocks from a popular public school in Canarsie where she demanded to have her son enrolled, Mrs. Woodson made no secret of her skepticism.
"Look at me," commanded the 65-year-old grandmother, 
 removing her glasses. "Do I have this job because I'm beautiful?" The tension eased and Mrs. Woodson zeroed in. "I have a hard time believing you," she said. "Just tell me the truth and I'll help you."
Such scenes have long been familiar around the start of each school year as frenzied parents cajole and harangue school officials, pull strings with politicians and often resort to imaginative schemes to place their children in the better New York City public schools outside their districts.
They give the addresses of friends or relatives, often even faking a lease on a form bought at the stationery store, or having a telephone installed in someone else's apartment to create the fiction of residency.
It was partly to curb this trickery that Schools Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez decided to allow parents to send their children to any school in the city that has space available, after the children in the immediate area and then the surrounding district are accommodated.
"We don't want a system for people who know how to work it to their advantage, nor do we want a system where people have to lie in order to go to the school of their choice," James Vlasto, a spokesman for Mr. Fernandez, said last week.
The Board of Education does not keep track of how many students officially attend elementary and junior high schools outside their districts, and many of the 32 semi-autonomous districts, which do keep such figures, are reluctant to disclose them, some out of embarrassment about the eagerness to go elsewhere.
 
Thousands of Transfers
 But the number of such transfers is clearly in the thousands. In two Manhattan districts alone, District 3 counted 620 variances, or official exceptions, signed for pupils coming in and 22 for those going out, and District 2 reported 323 coming in and 3 going out. Variances are often given to ease overcrowding, for example, or if siblings already attend the school out of district, or if a parent's job requires the child to attend a school near the work site.
Officials say there is no way to even estimate the additional number of children who attend schools outside their district by subterfuge. Within the districts, moreover, others have found ways to attend a school other than their designated home school.
After word of the new choice policy was disclosed, so many parents called one of the top-ranked Manhattan schools, Public School 6, on Madison Avenue at 81st Street, that the principal, Carmen Farina, finally had to take her telephone off the hook, a district official said.
"This is a black-market economy," said Anthony J. Alvarado, the former Schools Chancellor who is superintendent of District 2 in Manhattan. "When there is a commodity needed, people will do what they have to to obtain it."
"There will have to be a lot of good schools and a lot of space to accommodate movement," he said of the new citywide policy. "It won't solve the black-market economy, but it will decrease the amount of finagling."
 
Trying to Surrender Custody
 With private school tuition running as high as $15,000 a year, the lengths to which parents will go to place a child in a top-ranked -- and free -- public school outside their home zone often startle school administrators.
Some families even surrendered custody of their children to relatives near a desirable school, said Dr. Harvey Garner, superintendent of Brooklyn's District 18, who recalled going to court to contest such attempts.
Inez Fonti is a guidance supervisor in District 26, covering Bayside and Douglaston in Queens, where the public schools have long ranked among the city's highest in reading scores.
"They fake addresses," she said. "They say they're living with someone else. They bring in a notarized statement from someone saying they're living with them. I'll ask: 'Did you drive here? Where is your driver's license?' It will list another address. They'll say, 'Oh, I didn't change that yet.' I ask them, 'Where do you vote?' They say, 'I haven't decided yet.' I ask, 'Do you have utility receipts?' They say, 'No, the people I live with pay the bills.' "
So many parents have conspired over the years to install telephones in other people's homes, Ms. Fonti said, that the district no longer accepts a phone bill as a proof of residence.
 
Once In, Home Free
 A spokesman for New York Telephone, Bob Varettoni, said last week that the company had never been informed of such practices, and that customers were free to have phones installed wherever they wished and billed to whomever they wanted.
At another sought-after school, P.S. 87 on West 78th Street between Amsterdam and Columbus Avenues in Manhattan, the principal, Jane Hand, said that despite visits to suspicious addresses by an attendance teacher, children from outside the "catchment zone" had slipped in. But once a child is in, she said, "our hands are tied -- the child has become part of us."
There is no citywide policy, but most school officials interviewed agreed that a child, once in, would not be summarily expelled even if the address proved false. Some said the child would be not be permitted to return the next year, while others said they would let the child stay through all the grades of that school.
The ability to sniff out a parent's suspicious story has clearly become a specialty. Ms. Woodson, District 18's assistant superintendent for guidance, is one such expert. She has spent 45 years in the school system, the last 28 years in the district.
 
A Month to Prove Residency
 One morning last week, she questioned a new immigrant from St. Thomas, Debra Williams, who said she was living with her mother in the district and wanted to send her 11-year-old son, Michael, to fifth grade at P.S. 276.
Mrs. Williams had no residence records, which gave Ms. Woodson pause. Michael stumbled over his grandmother's phone number, stirring further suspicions. But by questioning the boy further, Ms. Woodson satisfied herself that he knew the neighborhood. She gave the woman a month to produce proof of residency.
"If we find out later that's not your real address," she said, "I'm going to send you to the closest school, understand?" The boy and his mother nodded happily and left.
Her next visitor, the Jamaican woman from California, was trying to get her 9-year-old son into third grade in P.S. 219, which was full. She said they were living nearby with a friend. The mother said she was homeless.
 
Homeless, With a Beeper
 "For a homeless person you look great," said Ms. Woodson, appraising her modish fluorescent mesh top and patterned leggings. Besides, she said, if she was living with her friend, she wasn't homeless.
Next Ms. Woodson asked if the mother could be reached by phone. Oh yes, she said: on her beeper.
"You have a beeper?" asked Mrs. Woodson, rolling her eyes.
"It's my girlfriend's beeper," the woman said hurriedly, "but I'm using it because I'm moving around."
Ms. Woodson said, "You're certainly making me earn my money today." She said she would admit the boy only if the mother returned within three months with documentation of her true residence.
"I have a direct telephone to God," said Ms. Woodson, who is about to retire to become a minister of the Reformed Church in America. "If He tells me it's true, I don't give you a hard time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joyce Rubin, left, director of gifted programs in District 18 in Brooklyn, talking with Gail Kurtz, who is trying to enroll her son Andrew in the program. At right is the superintendent, Dr. Harvey Garner. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FALSIFICATION OF DATA CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: FERNANDEZ, JOSEPH A (CHANCELLOR); BLUMENTHAL, RALPH CLARA WOODSON (70%); INEZ FONTI (56%); JOSEPH A FERNANDEZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



671 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: With Day Care or Bonus, Hospitals Entice Hard-to-Find Workers

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN

 BODY:
To 4-year-old Jenny Liu, the new day-care center at the Woodhull Hospital Center in Brooklyn is a place full of toys and books and playmates.
To her father, Zi Yang Liu, who is a laboratory technician at Woodhull, it is a safe, affordable child-care alternative that allows him to visit at noontime and take his daughter to the cafeteria for lunch. 
 To the hospital's administrators, the $140,000 center, which opened earlier this month, is a way to keep Mr. Liu and other employees in their jobs. Even in the recession there are positions that hospitals cannot fill, and financially struggling institutions have learned to be creative with the enticements they offer workers trained for such "hard to recruit" slots.
At Woodhull, for instance, priority at the day-care center is given to the children of nurses, occupational therapists, social workers, physician's assistants and a variety of other jobs with high vacancy rates.
 
Greater Demand for Care
 "We want to persuade them to work here," said Selena Griffin-Mahon, the associate director for human resources, "and, more important, once they're here we want to keep them. You're less likely to move your job if that means moving your child away from familiar day care, too."
The shortages, particularly of nurses, are being felt by hospitals nationwide, and nearly all are using similar methods to recruit and keep nurses and other professionals who are in short supply.
Studies have found that the shortage is a result of increased demand for nursing care, rather than a decrease in supply. The population of the United States is growing older and, therefore, sicker; the number of AIDS patients is rising, and medical technology can keep people alive longer. All these factors create a need for more health-care workers.
In New York City, the need for creativity in hospital recruitment is a lesson learned during the height of the nursing shortage in 1989, when as many as 30 percent of nursing jobs were vacant at some medical centers. Hospitals found themselves offering signing bonuses, subsidizing apartments, creating do-it-yourself work schedules and repaying employees' student loans.
And in recent months, hospitals have begun applying the methods of the nursing crisis to other professions where vacancies are growing. Across the city, 18 percent of occupational therapy jobs are vacant, as are 15 percent of respiratory therapy jobs, 16 percent of jobs for radiation therapy technicians and 11 percent of jobs for ultrasonographers, according to a survey in May by the Greater New York Hospital Association.
 
Effective Incentives
 The city's 11 financially strapped municipal hospitals have long been at a disadvantage in the benefits bazaar. The day-care center at Woodhull, for instance, is the first at any municipal hospital. In contrast, the hospital group's survey found that more than 20 percent of private hospitals and nursing homes in the area have on-site day care, though not all give preference to workers in hard-to-fill positions.
The nursing crisis showed that incentives can work. Across the city, the percentage of vacant nursing jobs was 18 percent in 1989; by the spring of 1992 the rate was 6 percent.
"It's much better than it was," said Thomas G. Doherty, vice-president of corporate affairs for the Health and Hospitals Corporation, which oversees the city's municipal hospitals. "We are still in need but it isn't a crisis."
There is evidence, however, that staffing at the public hospitals is worse than at private hospitals. The annual nursing turnover rate, for instance, is 17 percent at municipal hospitals, compared with 6.6 percent percent at the city's private hospitals.
 
Matching Private Hospitals
 One reason the municipal hospitals have more staffing problems is that they can offer fewer incentives to recruit and retain employees. Begining in 1988, the corporation began to match the nursing salaries at private hospitals, a response to the fact that nurses at municipal hospitals earned 15 percent less than their private counterparts. There is, however, no matching program for other employee salaries, which still lag.
The hospitals corporation has also tried to match other incentive programs, like subsidies for employees who wish to retrain for hard-to-fill jobs, and flexible scheduling options.
Nearly half of the city's private hospitals give a referral bonus to nurses who recruit other nurses. Two of the city's public hospitals -- Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx and Harlem Hospital in Manhattan -- give such bonuses, which amount to about $1,000, said Mary Gold, a corporation spokeswoman.
On the other hand, 14 percent of private hospitals give new employees a "signing bonus" of the kind -- though not the size -- that ballplayers often receive. Norman Katz, a spokesman for the hospitals corporation, said the municipal hospitals do not offer such bonuses.
About 30 percent of the private hospitals own apartments that their nurses can use, and half of those rent them at a subsidized rate. Ms. Gold said the only housing that the hospitals corporation provides are temporary quarters for nurses brought from overseas to relieve the shortage.
The corporation would like to provide incentive programs equal to those of the private hospitals, Ms. Gold said, but "everyone knows why we can't -- the money isn't there."
The feeling that their bag of enticements is smaller is one reason why Woodhull officials have such hopes for the new day-care center.
"This is important, and it's something not a lot of other places do," Ms. Griffin-Mahon said.
 
$120 a Week
 The $100,000 construction costs, she said, included a new entrance so children do not have to walk through wards to get to the playground, and one-way mirrors to allow parents to watch their children without interrupting their play. In addition, $40,000 was spent to equip and furnish the center with toys and decorations.
The fee for the center -- $120 a week for infants and toddlers, $95 a week for pre-schoolers -- will just cover the cost of the salaries of the six teachers and two teacher's aides, Ms. Griffin-Mahon said. And that is only if the 33 spaces are filled. At the moment, only five children are enrolled. Ms. Griffin-Mahon believes many employees are waiting until the center has been running for a time before enrolling their children.
Those who were among the first to sign up said the center does what hospital officials hoped -- it makes them feel better about Woodhull.
Mr. Liu, who has worked in the histology lab for three years, was paying $400 a month for child care before enrolling Jenny in the Woodhull center. His wife has a sales job in a department store and the couple would regularly struggle to pick Jenny up on time. Now he travels down an elevator and a hallway to get his daughter and he can drop in during the day, too.
"This is a good thing," said Mr. Liu. "Now it's a better place to work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jenny Liu, left, playing at the new day-care center at the Woodhull Hospital Center in Brooklyn. Her father, Zi Yang Liu, a laboratory technician at the hospital, can visit Jenny during the day and take her to lunch. At right was Ariel Prenderville. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WOODHULL HOSPITAL CENTER (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOODHULL HOSPITAL CENTER (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; NURSING AND NURSES; HOSPITALS; LABOR; DAY CARE CENTERS; BONUSES; WAGES AND SALARIES; HOUSING; WORKING HOURS NURSES & NURSING (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (88%); LABOR SHORTAGES (75%); BONUS PAY (75%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (75%); RADIOLOGY (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); PHYSICIANS ASSISTANTS (68%); AIDS & HIV (66%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (63%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (60%); 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



672 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Bills and Notes to Be Sold By U.S. Treasury This Week

 BODY:
Treasury financings this week are confined to the bill and note markets, beginning with today's regular auction of three- and six-month bills. Tomorrow, the agency will conduct a two-year note auction, followed on Wednesday by a five-year note auction.
By late in the day Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 2.86 percent, and on the six-month bill 2.89 percent. In when-issued trading, the new two-year note was being offered at a price to yield 3.86 percent, while the five-year note was at 5.41 percent. 
 The following fixed-income issues are scheduled for this week:
 
TAXABLES
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
American Re Corp., $300 million in senior subordinated debentures, due 2004, B-1/B+. Merrill Lynch & Co.
BankAmerica Corp., 12 million shares of $25 cumulative preferred, A-2/BBB+. Merrill Lynch.
Enterprise Oil P.L.C., 5.1 million shares of $25 cumulative preference series B, A-3/A-. Lehman Brothers.
James River Corp. of Virginia, eight million shares of $25 cumulative preferred series O, Baa-2/BBB. Merrill Lynch.
Lomas Mortgage USA Inc., $340 million in senior notes in three parts, $100 million due 1997, $100 million due 1999 and $140 million due 2002, not yet rated. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Maxus Energy, $250 million in senior notes due 2002, Ba-3/BB. First Boston Corp.
Mediplex Group Inc., $85 million in senior subordinated notes due 2002, B-2/B-. Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
Metropolitan Financial Corp., $60 million in subordinated notes due 1999, --/BB-. Dain Bosworth Inc.
 
(Credit: MCM CorporateWatch; Ratings: Moody's/Standard & Poor's)
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
MONDAY
Suffolk County (L.I.) Water Authority, $52 million in revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
TUESDAY
Middlesex County (N.J.), $54 million in general-obligation bonds. Competitive.
Austin, Tex., $52.49 million in general-obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
Kansas Dept. of Transportation, $125 million in revenue bonds. Competitive.
State of New York, $189.8 million in general-obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
New Jersey, $146.41 million in certificates of participation. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
State of Colorado, $107.71 million in certificates of participation. Merrill Lynch.
City of Colorado Springs, $62.32 million in airport system revenue bonds. Smith Barney.
Geisenger Authority (Pa.), $66.36 million in health system revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Hinsdale Hospital (Ill.), $61.17 million in debt securities. First Boston.
Illinois College Savers, $200 million in debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
Illinois State Toll Highway Authority, $450 million in revenue bonds. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Indianapolis Local Public Improvement Bond Bank, $66.52 million in debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
Mason County, W. Va., $50 million in pollution control revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Massachusetts Water Resource Authority, $450 million in general revenue refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
New Jersey, $1 billion in tax and revenue anticipation notes. First Fidelity Securities Group.
New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $227 million in debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
New York State Medical Care Facilities, $494 million in debt securities. Goldman, Sachs.
North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency, $1.45 billion in power system revenue bonds. Smith Barney.
Ohio Water Development Authority, $530 million in debt securities. Goldman, Sachs.
San Diego, $400 million in industrial development revenue refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Texas Public Facilities Authority, $200 million in debt securities. Lehman Brothers.
Texas Public Finance Authority, $450 million in State of Texas general-obligation refunding bonds, series 1992A. Merrill Lynch.
Trinity River Authority, Tex., $308.83 million in debt securities. Dillon, Read & Co.
Washington Public Power Supply, $700 million in debt securities. First Boston.
West Virginia State College and State University System, $146 million in revenue refunding bonds. Lehman Brothers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (70%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (69%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (69%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (68%); SIC8051 SKILLED NURSING CARE FACILITIES (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); MUNICH RE AMERICA CORP (70%); ENTERPRISE OIL PLC (69%); FORT JAMES CORP (68%); LOMAS MORTGAGE USA INC (68%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (66%); METROPOLITAN FINANCIAL CORP (66%); MEDIPLEX GROUP INC (66%); DAIN BOSWORTH INC (65%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



673 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Revived Harper's Takes Its Next Step

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY

 BODY:
Harper's Magazine is feeling confident. Even flush.
Ten years ago, Harper's was losing almost $2.5 million a year. "Now we are balancing on the point of breaking even," the magazine's editor, Lewis H. Lapham, said. 
 Seizing the moment, the 142-year-old Harper's is introducing its first big change since the overhaul that brought the magazine back from near-death in 1984. Beginning with the October issue, it will publish a long essay or piece of fiction four times a year. Titled Harper's Folio, these pieces of up to 20,000 words will be printed on different-colored, heavier paper and separately bound into the middle of the magazine. It will enable Harper's to showcase writers and to offer its advertisers a premium position in the center spread.
 
Trying to Lure Advertisers
 The Folio section will provide a counterpoint to the shorter, snappier features that have characterized the magazine for the last eight years. It represents an investment of $150,000, with the hope, of course, that it will lure new readers and advertisers.
The first Folio piece, "Pafko at the Wall," is a novella by Don DeLillo. It takes place during the 1951 playoff game between the old Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants when Bobby Thomson clinched the pennant for the Giants with what is known as "the shot that was heard around the world." The game is attended by J. Edgar Hoover, Toots Shor, Frank Sinatra and Jackie Gleason, who sit together.
John R. MacArthur, president and publisher, called the new format that he and Mr. Lapham devised in 1984 an "unqualified success." The grand old general-interest magazine became faster-paced and wittier while continuing to publish essays and criticism, like its piece by Tom Wolfe on the state of American fiction.
Mr. MacArthur confirmed that Harper's is nearing the break-even point. In 1992, he said, the monthly magazine expects to lose $60,000 on revenues of $4.6 million.
 
Financing a Rescue
 That is a far cry from 1980 when the Minneapolis Star and Tribune Company, which then owned Harper's, decided to shut the magazine because it was losing so much money. Mr. MacArthur, then a young reporter at The Chicago Sun-Times, went to his father, J. Roderick MacArthur, and asked him to persuade the board of the family's MacArthur foundation to finance a rescue.
As a result, the Harper's Magazine Foundation was set up to acquire the magazine with a $3 million investment -- half of it from the John D. and Catherine MacArthur Foundation and half from the Atlantic Richfield Foundation. The magazine was able to continue publishing without missing an issue. Mr. Lapham, who had been the editor since 1976, was dismissed by the board in 1981 and brought back by Mr. MacArthur in 1983.
Determined to liven up the fusty periodical, which calls itself the oldest continuously published monthly, Mr. Lapham and Mr. MacArthur then introduced the highly successful Harper's Index, a puckish compilation of odd facts and statistics.
(Samples: Number of the 28 millionaires in the United States Senate who are Democrats: 21. Amount the Department of Defense will spend on softballs this year: $1 million. )
Another section introduced at the time was Readings, a selection of essays, letters, memos and writings from other publications. Compilations of the Index and two other new sections called Forum and Annotation have been published as books.
Not only did the shorter pieces turn out to appeal to younger readers, but the quality of the longer pieces also improved sharply.
"If you only publish one or two magazine pieces an issue, you can take the best," Mr. Lapham said. "Before that, I had had to publish 8 to 10 pieces of 2,000 to 3,000 words and that was unmanageable."
Mr. MacArthur has also pared the circulation, eliminating marginal readers.
In the mid-1980's, Harper's was sending out 2.7 million direct mailings a year, a very expensive way to acquire subscribers. This year Harper's will send out only 346,000 direct mailings because longtime readers are renewing at the relatively high rate of 78 percent, Mr. MacArthur said. And since 1984, the age of the average reader has dropped to 43 years old from 50.
David Verklin, senior vice president and corporate media director at Hal Riney & Partners, said his ad agency analyzed circulation in detail to determine how well a publication performed for its clients.
"The circulation of Harper's is very clean and very pure," said Mr. Verklin, who has placed ads in Harper's for the Saturn automobile. "And the more a magazine is reaching and appealing to its readers, the better for its advertisers."
 
Circulation Growth
 For the six-month period that ended June 30, Harper's reported a circulation of 202,076, virtually flat with the year before, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations. Still, this is an increase of about 80,000 since 1983, Mr. MacArthur said. The magazine's main competitor is The Atlantic, which has a circulation of 465,173.
Like most other magazines, Harper's has seen its advertising decline because of the recession. Ad pages are down 12.7 percent through August, as reported to the Publishers Information Bureau. The magazine derives 64 percent of its revenues from circulation and the rest from advertising.
Tom Benelli, associate media director for the Wunderman Cato Johnson agency, said he had placed ads for BASF and Baileys Irish Cream in the magazine because it "targets leaders and people concerned about issues and influence."
"It's just an editorial product that you don't get anywhere else," he said. "There is just not another publication like it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John R. MacArthur, left, the publisher of Harper's, and Lewis H. Lapham, the editor, who revived the 142-year-old monthly magazine. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (50%); BP (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: HARPER'S MAGAZINE HARPER'S MAGAZINE FOUNDATION (85%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (51%); BP PLC (50%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARPER'S MAGAZINE NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); TOURNAMENTS (65%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE; MACARTHUR, JOHN R; LAPHAM, LEWIS H J RODERICK MACARTHUR (90%); LEWIS H LAPHAM (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



674 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 2812 words

HEADLINE: Shakespeare Festival Is on a Different Path Without Joseph Papp

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
As the New York Shakespeare Festival, for years the pre-eminent nonprofit theater in the United States, begins its first full season without its founder, Joseph Papp, who died on Oct. 31 last year, it is significantly different from the institution Mr. Papp presided over with ebullience in its glory days. In the last two years the staff has been cut in half, to 60 from 120, and the budget has been reduced by more than a third, to just under $10 million from $15 million.
The festival's stages at the Joseph Papp Public Theater on Lafayette Street, which in the theater's heyday saw the first performances of such celebrated works as "A Chorus Line," "The Normal Heart" and "That Championship Season," are increasingly being filled with a mix of films, literary readings, solo performances and community events. While plenty of plays are still being presented, a majority of the productions in the new season originated at regional theaters instead of at the Public. 
 In his 31 years of running the festival he founded, the legendary Mr. Papp produced more than 400 plays and musical works, which won 28 Tony Awards, 3 Pulitzer Prizes and nearly 100 Obies. Though anyone replacing him would doubtless become the focus of unflattering comparison, JoAnne Akalaitis, whom Mr. Papp named as his successor as artistic director in August 1991, has become a lightning rod for controversy. She has alienated some artists who have said she is difficult to work with, and she has made slighting remarks about subscription audiences, though the festival greatly needs to expand its subscriber base, currently 2,000, down from 3,500 two years ago. In comparison, the Roundabout Theater Company has 22,000 subscribers, and the Manhattan Theater Club has 15,000.
Ms. Akalaitis appears to be risking further wrath by omitting any work by Shakespeare in the coming season at the Public Theater, the first time in memory that he will not be represented there.
 
A Strong Defense
 For all of this, however, the Shakespeare Festival is strongly defended by partisans, both inside and out, who feel it is unfair to make judgments on the basis of one year without Mr. Papp. They say that Ms. Akalaitis, who is 55 years old, did well to mount a season at all in the face of severe budget cuts and the sense of drift that had pervaded the institution during Mr. Papp's long illness. Furthermore, even Mr. Papp had his good years and his bad years, and many theater people are suspending judgment on Ms. Akalaitis until she has had several seasons to a develop a record. (Ms. Akalaitis has a three-year contract that expires in the spring of 1994.)
They also point out that the festival won enthusiastic reviews for several productions last season and that Ms. Akalaitis tried to keep the building active with readings, film series, concerts and community events. Ms. Akalaitis commissioned 21 new plays in late August and two weeks later expanded the festival's group of theater artists in residence to 21 from 3. And if the new season at the Public includes no work of Shakespeare, they say, there are such eagerly anticipated productions as Tony Kushner's AIDS drama "Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes" and Jose Rivera's dark urban play, "Marisol."
Robin Wagner, the scenic designer of "Crazy for You," who has been on the festival's 25-member board since last year, said there was dissension on the board about the status of the festival, but "that's always what happens when a parent dies and the heir apparent takes over."
"Whatever disagreement there is," he said, "the feeling is that we must get behind JoAnne and this institution, and that the Public Theater must sail on."
Several theater executives praised Ms. Akalaitis's efforts. Rocco Landesman, the president of Jujamcyn Theaters, said of her work last season, "I would definitely give JoAnne an A minus because she was not afraid to make the bold choice."
But others, while agreeing that Mr. Papp's shoes may be impossible to fill, assert that, as the playwright Larry Kramer said, "This doesn't mean you just have to settle for so much less." Mr. Kramer, the author of "The Normal Heart," the longest-running production at the Public, is among the most vocal of the festival's critics and one of the few writers, directors, producers and other theater people interviewed for this article who were willing to be quoted by name.
Although the Public's stages have been alive this month with work and sold-out audiences in the Puppetry at the Public series, this was hardly the case for much of last season. "I live in the neighborhood," Mr. Kramer said, "and you only had to walk by that empty building this season to feel a great sadness that all the vitality that Joe spent so many years creating there is completely dissipated. The place has been a ghost town."
 
The Finances
Staff and Budget Have Been Slashed
 While New York City owns the Shakespeare Festival's landmark theater complex, which last spring was renamed in honor of Mr. Papp, the city contributes less than 10 percent of the institution's budget. Its other public and private support has eroded so sharply that in July the festival was forced to let seven more people go and, three months earlier, requested an emergency donation of $200,000 from the city to put on its summer Shakespeare productions at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park, says Barbara J. Fife, New York City's Deputy Mayor for Planning and Development. The city came through with the money.
For the first time since 1990, the festival will again receive money from the National Endowment for the Arts, estimated at $225,000 by Jason Steven Cohen, the festival's producing director. Two years ago Mr. Papp turned down a grant of more than $370,000 rather than agree to the endowment's "decency standard," which has since been struck down in Federal court.
In discussing its finances, Bernard Gersten, the executive producer of the Lincoln Center Theater, who worked with Mr. Papp from 1960 to 1978, said the biggest problem was that the festival "makes no economic sense and never did."
"It depends on successful shows like 'A Chorus Line' to pay the rent," he said. "And 'Chorus Line' is unlikely to be matched in a lifetime."
 
New Role for Board
 Officials of several other nonprofit theaters said they doubted the festival could succeed in the long run unless its board became more aggressive in raising money -- a matter that was left primarily to the persuasive Mr. Papp in the past -- and that Ms. Akalaitis had to lead the way. Larry E. Condon, the incoming chairman of the festival board, agreed. "The future now depends on a board that is actively engaged in a way it has not been in the past."
Ms. Akalaitis admitted that she did not have Mr. Papp's fund-raising charisma. "There is no way I can ever be like Joe, but I have my own way," she said, adding that she had been doing her own fund-raising but declining to give specifics. "But Joe said money follows the work, and it is all about the work."
The festival's S O S to the city particularly angered several other recession-starved nonprofit companies in New York because the festival also has a reserve fund, which Mr. Condon, the president of the Joyce Mertz-Gilmore Foundation, puts at "$15 or $16 million," consisting mainly of profits left from "A Chorus Line," which earned $38.8 million before it closed in 1990 after a 15-year Broadway run. "It's a cushion we can rely on," Mr. Condon said. "But if we eat it up at $2 million a year, it would bail us out for six more years or so and then we'd be out of business."
Administrators at several other nonprofit theaters view the festival's comparatively large budget and the reserve fund with envy. And they say the festival should be making more of an impact. "Forget about their money," said the artistic director of another nonprofit company. "Wouldn't it be wonderful to have a couple of their darkened theaters?"
 
The Productions
Outside Talent Dominates Plays
 Last season the festival put on eight major productions, three of which received general critical praise: " 'Tis Pity She's a Whore," directed by Ms. Akalaitis; "Fires in the Mirror," Anna Deavere Smith's one-woman show, which was the smash hit of the festival's season, and "As You Like It." "Blood Wedding," directed by Melia Bensussen, received mixed reviews. "As You Like It," one of two free Shakespeare productions at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park, drew consistently full houses despite a rainy summer, and some nights 1,000 would-be playgoers had to be turned away for lack of seats.
 
The Coming Season
 A majority of the plays scheduled this season at the Public are co-productions and plays brought in from other theaters. Mr. Kushner's "Angels in America," which is to open Feb. 2, comprises two full-length plays about AIDS, "Part 1: Millennium Approaches" and "Part 2: Perestroika." "Millennium Approaches" was staged this year at the Royal National Theater in London, to widespread acclaim; the Public is bringing in a different version, however, a co-production with the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles in association with New York Theater Workshop. It will have a run at the Taper before being seen at the Public. Mr. Rivera's "Marisol" has been produced in Louisville, Ky., and will play at the Hartford Stage in the winter before arriving at the Public in May.
Other scheduled productions include Steve Tesich's "On the Open Road," which has been staged at the Goodman Theater in Chicago; "Woyzeck" by Georg Buchner, which Ms. Akalaitis will direct; "Texts for Nothing," a one-man show constructed from texts by Samuel Beckett, to be directed by Joseph Chaikin and starring Bill Irwin, and Ann Magnuson's one-woman show "You Could Be Home Now," which the festival will co-produce with the Women's Project. In March, Ms. Akalaitis will direct "Prisoner of Love," a performance piece taken from the words of Jean Genet's last book about his experiences living with Palestinians and Black Panthers.
Puppetry at the Public, the popular and critically praised series that opened the new season on Sept. 7, was originated by the Jim Henson Foundation.
 
A 'Fact of Life'
 Mr. Wagner, the board member, defends the new schedule. "Co-productions are now a fact of life, and holding down costs, that's the major issue for all nonprofits right now," he said. "It's not a lack of leadership or new material. It's just simply hard to finance all these things."
Skeptics say some co-productions are more collaborative than others. A true co-production, said the director of another nonprofit theater, occurs when both companies have equal artistic involvement. This director said the Public was increasingly booking works conceived entirely by other theaters and putting its imprimatur on them.
By comparison, some of these critics point out that at Playwrights Horizons, which also had a change of leaders (Don Scardino replaced Andre Bishop as artistic director in January), only two of the six plays in the new season have been done in other theaters, and none are co-productions.
"The Public will never be a rental house," Ms. Akalaitis said. "But there is nothing wrong with renting out space if it can bring in great work." She said, "Joe also gave the theater to many other groups." Indeed, a few of Mr. Papp's successes came from other theaters, including "For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf."
Perhaps the most surprising aspect of the new season's schedule, though, is the absence of any work by Shakespeare at the Public, where 1,800 subscribers have paid to see the Shakespeare Marathon that began in 1987, when Mr. Papp promised to present all of Shakespeare. "I find that shocking," Mr. Kramer said, "because Joe believed that Shakespeare was more dear to him than anything in the world."
Ms. Akalaitis said that a planned production of "Timon of Athens" at the Public this winter had fallen through. "We love Shakespeare and my commitment to Shakespeare is as fervent as ever," said Ms. Akalaitis, who produced "Pericles" at the Public last season and two Shakespeare comedies in the Delacorte Theater over the summer. She promises more Shakespeare next summer, possibly "All's Well That Ends Well" and another play, and says that raising money for the summer will have a high priority.
Ms. Akalaitis's public style as artistic director became an issue at a symposium in June on "Critics and Criticism" in Cambridge, Mass. In discussing Mr. Papp's attempts to mount a subscription campaign two years ago, she told the symposium that this situation "made some directors, including myself, very miserable because we didn't like the subscription audiences."
"We didn't like them," she said, according to the transcript. "I mean, we felt, some of us felt, they didn't understand the work, that they were essentially dull people."
In an interview about her remarks, Ms. Akalaitis said that the quote was taken out of context, and she did clarify her remarks later in the symposium, saying, "I really believe in subscription," and adding, "I have been in theaters where I've been inspired by the response of a subscription audience."
 
The Outlook
With a New Vision Comes Criticism
 The creative success of the festival under Mr. Papp derived from his often stormy but highly productive relationships with playwrights and directors, whose contributions he often emphasized.
Board members like Mr. Wagner feel "that JoAnne has worked hard to create an ambiance of creativity at the theater," he said. But some playwrights don't see it that way. "She may be very genuinely trying to find plays, but it's not something you do from Monday to Tuesday," said Albert Innaurato, whose "Coming of Age in SoHo" was produced by Mr. Papp in 1985. "New work comes from longstanding relationships."
Ms. Akalaitis presided over a rambling invitational meeting for playwrights last fall at the Public, remembered most for its confusion and for the walkout of Jon Robin Baitz, the author of "The Substance of Fire." He was reported to have said he didn't want to belong to a writing community, adding, "I write alone."
"I suppose it was a gesture toward the so-called creative community, but it didn't seem terribly effective," Mr. Innaurato said of the meeting. "She's worked a lot with classical plays, but I have a sense that working with playwrights is not what she does, that she doesn't know playwrights and their reality."
Ms. Akalaitis denied this and in late August commissioned 21 new plays and adaptations from playwrights ranging from Connie Congdon ("Casanova") to Jose Rivera ("Marisol"), spending from $500 to $10,000 for individual plays, she said. "We hope that this will lead to new work, workshops and plays that will pay off during the next two years," she said.
Early this month, Ms. Akalaitis expanded the festival's group of "artistic associates" to 21 from 3. They include writer-performers like Eric Bogosian and Anna Deavere Smith, the playwrights Craig Lucas and Ms. Congdon, and the directors Robert Woodruff and Melia Bensussen, as well as costume and lighting designers. "They will be gadflies, scouts, philosophers and project directors who will be loosely in residence," Ms. Akalaitis said.
These associates will receive "varying degrees of compensation," she said, ranging from full health insurance, to travel stipends, to the use of a telephone. The total budget for the associates program, she said, is $100,000. Different artists will have different contracts with the festival under the loosely structured arrangement, and some of the associates will have an artistic base at other theaters, like Mr. Lucas, who is a member of the Circle Repertory Company and will continue to create work for that group.
 
A Question of Manner
 Though Ms. Akalaitis said her goal was to reach out to talented theater people, there are some who say her manner, which they describe as distant, may hinder that effort. "No one disputes that JoAnne has taste or says she's unskilled as a director," Mr. Kramer said. "But she does not radiate friendship in any way. I can't tell you how many people don't want to work there."
Mr. Papp was known to engage in high-decibel arguments with some of his theatrical collaborators, and they continued to work with him. And such defenders of Ms. Akalaitis's as Mr. Landesman say, in fact, that rapport with artists is a strong suit because of her work as a director.
For her part, Ms. Akalaitis commented: "I'm portrayed as this naughty person. But I feel I have terrific relations with the theater community and with the staff." She said she hoped that her work, in conjunction with the theater's new artistic associates and the newly commissioned plays, "will speak for itself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "There is no way I can ever be like Joe, but I have my own way," said JoAnne Akalaitis, whom Joseph Papp named as his successor as artistic director in August 1991. Mr. Papp then died in October. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) (pg. C11); Val Kilmer, left, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Jared Harris and Wendell Pierce, right, in " 'Tis Pity She's a Whore," one of eight major productions put on last year by the New York Shakespeare Festival. (Martha Swope); A scene from "Fires in the Mirror," Anna Deavere Smith's one-woman show, which was the smash hit of the festival's season. (New York Shakespeare Festival) (pg. C18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER FESTIVALS (92%); THEATER (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FILM (78%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); CALENDARS (75%); LITERATURE (73%); MUSIC (66%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN; PAPP, JOSEPH; AKALAITIS, JOANNE JOSEPH PAPP (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



675 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Ad Campaign;
Clinton: Criticizing the President

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

 BODY:
 The only picture of Mr. Clinton is a small photo of him grinning at the end of the ad.
TELEVISION SCRIPT -- Narrator: "1988."
Bush: "30 million jobs in the next eight years."
Narrator: "1990. America's jobless rate hits a three-year high."
Bush: "I'm not prepared to say we are in recession.
Narrator: "March 1992. Jobless rate hits six-year high."
Bush: "The economy is strengthening."
Narrator: "George Bush vetoes unemployment compensation."
Bush: "The economy continues to grow."
Narrator: "July 1992. Unemployment is the highest in eight years.
"If George Bush doesn't understand the problem, How can he solve it? We can't afford four more years."
ACCURACY -- The statements are accurate, but the ad juxtaposes images of Mr. Bush with events that are not directly related in time to what he is saying. For example, Mr. Bush is shown on Nov. 8, 1991, saying the nation is not in a recession, and the next image is words saying the jobless rate hit a six-year high in March 1992. The Bush campaign accuses the Clinton organization of exploiting the hardship of Americans in the ad.
SCORECARD -- In its first negative commercial, the Clinton campaign seeks to avoid being accused of gutter tactics by letting the President hang himself with his own words. The topic is the one that polls show is foremost on the minds of voters: the economy. The Clinton forces are trying to steer the debate in that direction.
 
On the Economy
ON THE SCREEN -- Mr. Clinton at a desk in shirt sleeves, tie loose, American flag and old-fashioned radio behind him. Throughout the commercial, the camera cuts from Mr. Clinton talking about his economic prescriptions to words bolstering his remarks: "Income is down," "Higher unemployment," and "What it takes: New Jobs . . . Cut health care costs . . ."
TELEVISION SCRIPT -- Mr. Clinton: "We've been under trickle down economics for 12 years -- just keep taxes low on the wealthy and see what happens. Well, I'll tell you what happens. Most Americans are working harder for less money, unemployment's up, health care costs are exploding, we are not doing what it takes to compete and win.
"I've worked hard on a different plan. Let's give incentives to invest in new jobs. Let's spend more on education and training. Let's provide basic health care to all Americans. Putting our people first. Rebuilding this economy. Making us competitive. If we do those things, we'll compete and win. And we'll bring this country back."
ACCURACY -- There are no factual inaccuracies, although Mr. Clinton's assertion that "we'll compete and win" is, of course, speculative. Republicans argue that the tax burden of Mr. Clinton's programs would ultimately fall on everyone, not just the wealthy, who the Governor says are not paying their fair share.
SCORECARD -- The two new Clinton ads complement each other, one criticizing Mr. Bush, the other portraying Mr. Clinton as the more capable. In once again inviting viewers to call an (800) number to obtain a copy of its proposals, the Clinton organization seeks to give the impression it has a meaty, workable plan.


GRAPHIC: The Clinton campaign began broadcasting two new commercials yesterday, including its first of the general election campaign that attacks President Bush. The Clinton organization said it had bought nearly $2 million of television time for the 30-second advertisements in 20 markets. The markets were not identified.
Chart: "The Ad Campaign -- Clinton: Criticizing the President"
 ON THE SCREEN -- Images of President Bush, the picture slightly out of focus, cheerily making upbeat pronouncements about the economy. As he speaks, a narrator and words on the screen raise doubts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ADVERTISING; ELECTION ISSUES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); ELECTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



676 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Don't Blame the Owl

 BODY:
The northern spotted owl -- once described by President Bush as "that little furry-feathery guy" -- is not a particularly popular little guy among timber workers in the Pacific Northwest. Listed as an endangered species in 1990, the owl triggered a series of court cases that halted logging in millions of acres of old-growth forests.
Timber workers are furious. They also vote. Which is why Mr. Bush went to Washington State last week and pledged to mend the Endangered Species Act to give "greater consideration to jobs, families and communities." It is time, he declared, "to put people ahead of owls." 
 Reasonable people may disagree on whether the Endangered Species Act, one of the nation's toughest environmental laws, gives sufficient weight to the economic costs of preserving biodiversity. But to suggest to frightened loggers that changing the act and sacrificing the owl will save their jobs for very long is disingenuous.
The logging industry is undergoing such radical changes that further clear-cutting can only be a stopgap remedy. Mr. Bush correctly noted, for example, that many milling jobs are lost because raw logs are exported to Japan, not sent to local mills.
There are two other powerful forces he did not mention. One is a major shift in investment capital to the South by the big timber companies. The other is automation. In short, business decisions and market forces have done far more to undermine the workers than the owl.
Blaming the owl trivializes the environmental stakes and diverts attention from the Administration's failures. The issue is not just the owl but the owl's habitat -- magnificent old-growth forests that environmentalists wish to save for future generations and loggers wish to cut for today's generation.
Yet the Administration has done virtually nothing to devise a sensible protection plan for the owl, as mandated by the act. Nor has it proposed measures to retrain displaced workers or help distressed communities. With a concerted effort, the Administration might conceivably save most of the forest and more than a few jobs. But nobody, including Congress, seems to have the stomach for such a task in a political year.
The old-growth forests could disappear completely in 15 years if cutting resumed at pre-1990 levels. What would happen to the loggers then? And what would happen to tourism and recreation -- industries that can create sustainable jobs as long as the forests last?
These questions require a political perspective that extends beyond Election Day. To his credit, Governor Clinton has talked, albeit vaguely, about a government-business partnership to reconcile environmental and economic needs. For Mr. Bush, who campaigned in the Pacific Northwest four years ago as the next "environment President," the answer is much simpler: get on with the cutting.
That approach will sacrifice not just the "little furry-feathery guy" but an extraordinary environmental resource with its own job potential.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST USA (93%); WEST USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (STATE) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHWEST USA (93%); WEST USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT (1973); OWLS; SPOTTED OWL LOGGING INDUSTRY (92%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (77%); BIODIVERSITY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



677 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
The Two Faces of George

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
Have we ever had two political campaigns so different in style and content? I mean the two campaigns being waged by George Bush.
In one there is the President, reassuring authority figure, reaching out to all Americans, promising to help them in their economic distress. This campaign, positive in tone, offers an "Agenda for American Renewal." 
 In the other there is Pork Rind George, knee-fighter and scourge of un-American values. This campaign, entirely negative, attacks Bill Clinton as a dangerous leftist in the grip of alien ideology.
The negative campaign began in Houston. The convention there featured speakers from the paranoid right, such as Pat Robertson. (He has called George Bush's "new world order" a plan plotted by Satan, but that didn't keep him off the speakers' list.) The convention theme was attacks on "the other" -- working women, gays, the unwed, the un-Christian.
Mr. Bush embraced the extreme right in Houston in order to secure his base among conservatives, especially the increasingly powerful Christian right. He also had a particular strategic purpose: to shore up his support in the South.
When James Baker took over the Bush re-election drive this month, he changed direction. The convention attacks on Hillary Clinton and others, and the general tone of hate, had repelled many Americans. And Mr. Baker understood that to win Mr. Bush had to target voters at the center of the political spectrum.
Accordingly, some of the most strident messages from the convention were toned down. Vice President Quayle, the inventor of "family values," announced that his grandmother had been a single mother and his sister was divorced. He and Mr. Bush seemed to back away from the platform's demand that all abortions be made criminal, even when the pregnancy resulted from rape or incest.
President Bush had been scheduled for weeks to go down to Virginia Beach, Va., and speak to a meeting of Pat Robertson's Christian Coalition. But reading the polls, Mr. Baker decided that dramatizing the Bush-Robertson connection would be bad news.
The solution was to have Mr. Bush speak to the Robertson meeting at 7:40 P.M. on a Friday night, Sept. 11, after the last television network news broadcast. And Mr. Baker rushed through plans for sale of F-15 jets to Saudi Arabia so the President could announce them to a crowd of airplane workers earlier in the day, dominating the news.
The jet sale reflected another aspect of the new, positive campaign: George Bush as Santa Claus. He announced so many sudden benefits that a Lorenz cartoon in The New Yorker showed a woman opening a letter and telling her husband: "My goodness! It's a check from George Bush for $150,000 to fix the screen door."
But Jim Baker has evidently decided that the positive campaign is not working well enough.
In Enid, Okla., last week Mr. Bush said Governor Clinton believed in "social engineering" and an "elite central government." Those were old European ideas, Mr. Bush said, and Mr. Clinton was for them because "he and a number of his advisers studied them at Oxford in the 1960's."
Why did President Bush go in for such crude nativism? Because he is running behind in the South, and even in Oklahoma, and because the latest Baker strategy is to smear Governor Clinton.
A Bush campaign official, asked by John Aloysius Farrell of The Boston Globe why they were so interested in Mr. Clinton's time as a Rhodes Scholar, said jokingly, "You mean Red Willie?" It was not a joke when Floyd Brown, who put out the supposedly "independent" Willie Horton advertising in 1988, wrote last week that Bill Clinton's opposition to the Vietnam War while he was at Oxford was "under the aegis and support of one of the most notorious Communist front organizations in Europe."
Surrogates are doing much of the dirty work in the negative campaign. Newt Gingrich says that the Democrats have Woody Allen's family values; the Bush people disavow the crack, but the sting remains.
Watch the target, and you can tell which Bush campaign it is. There is one for the North and one for the South, one for the center and one for the right.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); FAMILY (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); ETHICS (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (62%); ABORTION (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



678 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Don't Confuse China Trade and Human Rights

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"One-Fisted Strength on China" (editorial, Aug. 29) is right to state that the Bush Administration has been soft on human rights issues in China. However, I would suggest that it is better not to use the same weapon to fight two different battles: promoting free trade and improving human rights in China. 
 The United States, by threatening to impose retaliatory tariffs and pressure for freer trade relations with its trading partner, is likely to achieve its goal, an outcome beneficial for both countries. However, pressuring for human rights by using tariff penalties will not work.
Under United States pressure for a more open market, China is likely to yield. Last year, China made a concession to United States pressure in a trade conflict over intellectual property rights. Taiwan and Hong Kong business groups played a role in defusing the conflict because they are joint venturers in many of China's exports, particularly in the southern part of China. They and other private sector groups persuaded the Chinese Government not to confront the United States publicly on trade. Their interests and efforts apparently influenced the negotiation.
Moreover, pressing China to open its market will help its fast-growing private sector further integrate into the world market. The more China's economy is integrated into the world economy, the more likely its reform will succeed. Therefore the reformers will benefit by increased foreign competition in China.
Although the United States has vast trade leverage with China, when the tariff weapon is applied to human rights, the directly affected groups, such as political prisoners and others sympathetic to politically repressed people in China, will not have much leverage in changing Government policy. Business groups from overseas and domestic reformers will not have much influence if China decides to stand up against the United States on this issue.
A penalty would hurt China's export sector, which is closely linked to the economic and political power bases of the reformers. Therefore, threatening with a protectionist tariff is a wrong weapon in the human rights fight. It would hurt reformers much more than some symbolic gains, if any. We need a different fist to create pressure for better human rights in China.
 
CHI-CHU CHOU
 Asst. Prof., Economics, Rutgers U.
 Newark, Sept. 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (50%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); POLITICS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



679 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Don't Confuse China Trade and Human Rights;
Next Prime Minister?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Aug. 25 Beijing Journal on China's new economic strongman, Zhu Rongji, is illuminating. While Mr. Zhu's replacement of Li Peng as China's Prime Minister requires the final approval of the Chinese Communist Party's 14th Party Congress, recent developments in China suggest this appointment is imminent. 
 Last June 11, the State Council established the Economic and Trade Office, with Mr. Zhu as director. This organization has been authorized to take broad charge of production and circulation affairs. It will soon become the State Commission on Economics and Trade, the No. 1 superministry, surpassing the State Planning Commission.
Last July 24, the State Council inaugurated a 54-article regulation on the transfer of management mechanism for the State Industrial Enterprises. The regulation, generally considered the most innovative plan in recent years, provides concrete procedures for transferring the Chinese economy from a Stalinist central planning system to a market-oriented system. Mr. Zhu supervised the drafting.
In mid-August, information gathered from Beijing by Taiwan's newspapers showed the new set-up of leadership agreed to by Deng Xiaoping and his octogenarian comrades. Mr. Zhu was reportedly selected as the new Prime Minister to replace Li Peng, who will become chairman. The new standing committee of the party political bureau will be composed of seven members: Jiang Zemin, Qiao Shi, Li Peng, Zhu Rongji, Li Ruihuan, Tian Jiyun and Li Tieying, with Yang Beibing replacing his brother Yang Shangkun as first vice chairman of the party's central military committee.
While Mr. Zhu's role as the new champion of Mr. Deng's reform seems definite, he has nevertheless encountered numerous hurdles, notably the resistance of the bureaucracy. As China's bureaucracy has reached a staggering figure of 31 million, the change of state enterprise management would deprive power to millions of officials whose economic interests may be adversely affected. Mr. Zhu must overcome resistance from this group to implement the regulation.
Equally important are 30 million superfluous employees in state enterprises and 23 million retirees, whose subsistence depends on support from the state enterprises. Eradicating this enormous burden is another thorny task. Mr. Zhu's solution is to develop tertiary industry (service) by allowing state enterprises to diversify their operations.
As you point out, one of Mr. Zhu's great strengths is his willingness to accept criticism, a sign of self-confidence. In a private audience in Zhongnanhai in mid-July, he not only listened patiently to my blunt criticisms of China's state enterprises and price reform, but he also sincerely sought follow-up comments.
Should Zhu Rongji become the Prime Minister, China may be able to break the zigzag pattern of economic reform of the last decade and accelerate the pace of economic transformation.
 
CHU-YUAN CHENG
Prof. of Economics & Chmn., Asian
Studies Committee, Ball State U.
Muncie, Ind., Sept. 2, 1992

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES TRADING CO LTD (56%); STATE COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: ZHU RONGJI (DEPUTY PRIME MIN) LI PENG (94%); DENG XIAOPING (55%); JIANG ZEMIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



680 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Diamond Industry Loses Little Luster

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Sept. 4 Business Day article on the American diamond industry and New York City's 47th Street diamond district paints an incomplete portrait. The industry, like virtually every other, has been hit by the recession. But Department of Commerce data do not support your assertion that "sullen economic times have treated few industries as meanly." 
 While there are fewer cutters and workers in the diamond district than a decade ago, this is due less to the economic slowdown than to a shift in manufacturing pattern: we are no longer cutting large quantities of smaller sized goods, but smaller quantities of larger and better stones.
The American diamond industry remains strong, certainly compared with other industries affected by the recession. Last year, American diamond industry exports exceeded $1 billion for the fourth straight year.
We believe that rents have dropped far less on 47th Street than in many, if not most, other sections of New York City.
 
LLOYD JAFFE
Chairman
American Diamond Industry Assn.
New York, Sept. 9, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN DIAMOND INDUSTRY ASSN

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN DIAMOND INDUSTRY ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DIAMONDS; SALES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DIAMOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: JAFFE, LLOYD

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1992



681 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Regulations March On, Despite a Moratorium

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
After more than seven months, the moratorium that George Bush imposed on most new Federal regulations has had little visible effect in reversing the sharp growth of regulation during the first three years of his Presidency, many policy analysts say.
At the same time, however, both supporters and critics of the moratorium contend that it has helped chill the regulatory climate, particularly involving rules covering the environment, where much current attention is focused. 
 "I'm not sure the concrete results are there just yet," said Phillip Mink, general counsel for Citizens for a Sound Economy, a conservative-oriented group seeking a rollback in the Federal regulatory presence, which now employs a record 125,000 people in drafting and enforcement. "But it's still a very sound concept. What it needs is significant long-term execution."
The moratorium, which was initially for 90 days and subsequently extended for 120 days, is now scheduled to remain in place until August 1993, assuming Mr. Bush's re-election.
 
 
Federal Register's Growth
 One measure of the extent of regulatory growth is the number of pages found each year in the Federal Register, in which Government rules are published. In 1988, before Mr. Bush took office, there were 53,376 pages. By 1991, there were 67,716, the third- highest total. By Sept. 1, 40,070 pages had been published for 1992, compared with 43,687 at that time last year.
The Administration's Council on Competitiveness, headed by Vice President Dan Quayle, now estimates that 1992 savings will total $35 billion. The council disputes those who contend that headway has been harder to achieve than officials expected, thereby forcing them to give the issue less political prominence.
"The regulatory moratorium has been a huge success by any estimate," said Jeff Nesbit, a spokesman for the Vice President.
He said nearly 1,000 regulations have been reviewed -- perhaps three-quarters of those in the pipeline when the moratorium began in late January -- and that in about 300 of these cases there has been at least some favorable result.
A vast majority of cases, Mr. Nesbit said, have involved pro-growth or deregulation measures, some of which have been amended to make them even more so.
The rest were suspended indefinitely, withdrawn or returned to the agency proposing them for further work.
This latter group consists of "dozens of obsolete regulations that have been desexed forever," Mr. Nesbit said.
 
No Specific Examples
 But when asked for specific examples, Mr. Nesbit said he could not point to any since departments and agencies are generally unwilling to provide lists of such actions because they often harbor "some hope" of one day reviving the rules, Mr. Nesbit said.
Public Citizen, a group associated with Ralph Nader that is one of the Administration's severest regulatory critics, charged recently that the moratorium has been used to hold up regulations improperly. The White House specified that the moratorium would not apply to rules developed under statutory or judicial deadlines or those that involved "imminent danger" to human safety or health.
The moratorium "is costing the nation dearly in human life and a damaged environment," the group, along with an executive-branch monitor called O.M.B. Watch, asserted. "Dozens of crucial public health and environmental safeguards have fallen under the guillotine." As examples, they pointed to the issues of food labeling and protecting workers from toxic chemicals.
Even so, the groups called the Administration's cost savings of up to $20 billion "pure voodoo accounting."
Quite apart from differing interpretations of what can be legitimately deferred, the near-term impact of the moratorium is hard to measure because, unlike budgetary matters, there is no real yardstick, no way of telling what would have happened without it.
 
 
'No Regulatory Baseline'
 "I don't think you can tell" what effect the moratorium is having, declared William Niskanen, head of the Cato Institute and once an official in the Reagan Administration. "There's no regulatory baseline."
Conservative hopes are tempered by the fact that Mr. Bush has presided over a substantial expansion of Government regulation, signing among other things the Clean Air Act amendments and Americans With Disabilities Act, both of which required extensive rule-writing.
It is generally agreed that it is harder to undo a measure than to prevent it from becoming law in the first place.
Moreover, noted William G. Laffer 3d, a regulatory specialist for the Heritage Foundation, and other analysts, Mr. Bush has himself appointed some regulation-minded officials, in particular William Reilly at the Environmental Protection Agency and David Kessler at the Food and Drug Administration.
Doubts about the Bush Administration's commitment are also fueled by the fact that it has failed to install anyone to head the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, the body in charge of reviewing rules and other paperwork. With its only candidate failing to win Senate confirmation, the post has been in the hands of an acting chief since late 1989.
The 60-day moratorium imposed by President Reagan in 1981 provided few lessons since it was aimed at preventing a host of last-minute Carter Administration rules from taking effect. Mr. Bush, by contrast, seeks to counter his own handiwork.
In many eyes, the main virtue of the Bush moratorium is that in addition to deferring new rules, the departments and agencies are instructed to review all existing ones with the goal of perhaps abolishing those failing the cost-benefit test.
In a recent report on the broad sweep of regulatory reform since the mid-1970's, Mr. Quayle's office held that some changes had been counterproductive, citing as a notable example the 1986 expansion of Government insurance on bank deposits to $100,000 for each account from $40,000. Many believe that by exposing itself to greater risk, the Government contributed to the financial havoc among savings and loan institutions in the late 1980's, requiring a huge Federal bailout.
The report mentioned transportation, energy, telecommunications and financial services for particular attention during a second Bush term.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS FOR A SOUND ECONOMY (57%); CITIZENS FOR A SOUND ECONOMY (57%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (54%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS FOR A SOUND ECONOMY (57%); CITIZENS FOR A SOUND ECONOMY (57%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (54%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY;
ENVIRONMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); POLITICS (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); LAWYERS (69%); DEREGULATION (69%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



682 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Trading Set in U.S. Mutual Fund With an Israeli Portfolio

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The first American mutual fund invested in Israeli companies is scheduled to begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange next month.
Seventy percent of the First Israel Fund Inc. will be invested in publicly traded securities on the Tel Aviv stock exchange, according to Ze'ev Holtzman, director of Giza, one of two Israeli companies acting as advisers to the United States managing firm, BEA Associates. Analyst, Israel's largest managing firm for private funds, is the other adviser. 
 The remaining 30 percent of the fund will be invested in higher-risk unlisted private companies, particularly those in high-technology fields, Mr. Holtzman said.
Merrill Lynch, Prudential Securities and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette will serve as underwriters.
Mr. Holtzman said the fund planned to raise $60 million to $100 million. That would be welcome news for an Israeli financial community long starved for investments from foreigners, who have been wary because of Israel's war-torn past.
But recent political and economic events, including the energetic approach to the peace process by Israel's new Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin, have raised confidence in the market and prompted sponsors to go ahead with the fund. Original plans to float it in 1990 were canceled when Iraq invaded Kuwait.
Much of the rising interest in the market here can be traced to the privatization policy begun by the previous Likud Government, including changes in currency laws and tax rulings favorable to foreign investors.
 
Loan Guarantee a Factor
 Also a factor was President Bush's granting Israel $10 billion in loan guarantees for absorbing new immigrants from the former Soviet Union. This could help lower the unemployment rate, now about 11 percent.
The volatile Tel Aviv stock exchange rose 65 percent last year and the injection of tens of millions of dollars of capital through the new fund could have a considerable impact. The market had a capitalization of $24.9 billion in August, but only about $7.5 billion was regularly traded on the exchange.
About 70 percent of the 360 companies on the exchange are held by majority shareholders, which accounts for the large difference between the market's overall capitalization and the scope of the trading.
Mr. Ross of the Tel Aviv stock exchange acknowleged that the Israeli economy was not well understood abroad. But he and others pointed to a huge increase in visits by potential investors lately.
"Getting in now is getting in on the ground floor," said Mark Meiras of Pacific Mediterranean Investments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (78%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%); 

COMPANY: FIRST ISRAEL FUND INC; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; TEL AVIV STOCK EXCHANGE MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST ISRAEL FUND INC; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; TEL AVIV STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ISRAEL ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (78%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BONDS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); IMMIGRATION (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (64%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (58%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



683 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 6; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Yankees Make First Of Their Many Lists

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY, Special to The New York Times

 BODY:
The Yankee hierarchy spent most of yesterday in Tampa, Fla., debating the future. The National League's expansion draft was the topic, and the executives exchanged lists touting the 15 players they deemed most desirable for the organization to protect.
Because the Yankees have one of the deepest farm systems in the major leagues, yesterday's dialogue was sure to be laced with dissenting opinions. Both major and minor league players can be chosen in the expansion draft. The arguing among the Yanks will likely continue and the names will likely change until the club submits its final list before Nov. 17, the day of the draft. 
 Eight A.L. teams will lose three players apiece, and six will surrender two each to the Colorado Rockies and Florida Marlins. The minor league rich Yankees are almost assured of waving goodbye to three players.
After the Yankees lose a player in the first round of the three-round draft, they will add four players to their protected list, one more than National League teams can. When a second player is chosen, they will protect four more.
 
'We Have to Lose Some'
 "There is no such thing as a perfect list," said Manager Buck Showalter. "We are probably going to lose one or two players who someone in the organization did not want to lose. But we have to lose some. There is no way to prevent it."
Because they are not expected to contend next season, the Yankees will probably choose to sacrifice a bona fide major leaguer like Randy Velarde or John Habyan rather than lose a future talent like third baseman Russ Davis (.285, 22 homers and 71 runs batted in for Class AA Albany) or pitcher Mark Hutton (13-7, 3.57 e.r.a. at Albany).
It is a sound philosophy because the Yankees already know what a Velarde or Habyan can achieve, but they would be perturbed if a minor leaguer slipped away and became a .300 hitter or 20-game winner.
Employing this approach, the Yankees would have a safety net. For example, if they lost Habyan, they would be able to add Rich Monteleone to the protected list for the next round so they would not lose two right-handed relievers. If they lost Velarde, they would then protect utilityman Andy Stankiewicz.
"This is extremely important for the future of the Yankees," Joseph Molloy, the managing partner, said recently. "You could lose a player and have it affect the team for years."
The Yankees will likely take a slight gamble by not protecting Danny Tartabull, their leading run producer. Eight months after they signed him to a five-year, $25.5 million contract, the Yanks seem certain to leave him off the protected list because they claim his price tag will frighten the new teams, who inherit existing contracts of their players.
 
Unahppy With Tartabull
 But there could be more to the Tartabull scenario than what the Yankees concede publicly. Despite his 23 homers and 80 r.b.i., there are team officials who are irritated by Tartabull's chronic injuries and who would prefer to see the Marlins or Rockies snatch away what they consider a $5.1 million-a-year headache.
How disastrous would it be for the Yankees to lose their marquee free agent after one season? They could sway any negative feelings by grabbing the $20 million they save, add another $10 million or so and and put on the full-court press to sign Barry Bonds. Does that sound like a George Steinbrenner design to anyone?
Tartabull has heard that the Marlins might be interested in him because he was born in Miami, but the talk doesn't bothered him.
"They're doing it from a business standpoint," he said. "It doesn't have anything to do with me."
Other notables not likely to be on the protected list are Matt Nokes, the bewildered catcher with decent power but a $5 million contract over the next two years; Kevin Maas, whose homer potential is attractive, but whose erratic defense is not; Steve Farr, the dependable 35-year-old closer whose economical $1.1 million salary next season could land him a new address, and Mike Gallego, the Yankees' other 1992 free agent.
 
Taylor Is Safe
 Brien Taylor, the fastball prospect and former No. 1 draft choice, is exempt from the draft because he has no major league experience and fewer than three years in the minors.
Each Yankee official is known to have about 10 "locks" on his list, but the last five choices are what will cause the lengthy squabbles. Ideally, the Yankees would not mind losing the Class AAA standouts Hensley Meulens (26 homers, 100 r.b.i.) and Jeff Johnson (2-1, 2.17 e.r.a.) because there are no spots for them in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (73%); ALBANY, NY, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; AMERICAN LEAGUE NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); COLORADO ROCKIES (56%); FLORIDA MARLINS (56%); COLORADO ROCKIES (56%); FLORIDA MARLINS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; AMERICAN LEAGUE NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); COLORADO ROCKIES (56%); FLORIDA MARLINS (56%); COLORADO ROCKIES (56%); FLORIDA MARLINS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); TAMPA, FL, USA (73%); ALBANY, NY, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (SPORTS); MAJOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (92%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (66%); 

PERSON: CURRY, JACK DANNY TARTABULL (74%); JOHN HABYAN (56%); RANDY VELARDE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



684 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Forward With Europe

 BODY:
For Americans, the news from France is close but clear. European unity lives, and that is in the best interests of the United States, the 12 members of the European Community and global trade. France's 51-to-49 percent "yes" vote on the Maastricht treaty does not guarantee ultimate triumph. But it averts what could have become a slide into nationalist discord.
The road ahead is pitted with rocks and craters: the thinness of the margin, monetary tension and skepticism in countries that have yet to vote. Community leaders will have to find ways to make rolling reassessments. Yet for the moment they can keep rolling forward. 
 France's referendum on the Maastricht treaty started out as a judgment on debatable details of monetary and political union. By the time of the vote on Sunday it had become a test of the viability of the European Community. Now, with Europe's narrow victory, attention quickly turns to the next set of obstacles, and the next.
The most difficult is how to respond to last week's currency crisis. Fixed exchange rates could not forever bridge the gulf of divergent national goals. The system unraveled because Germany refused to compromise its low-inflation policy for the sake of its partners. Unless Europe's governments are now prepared to sacrifice domestic goals for the sake of wider harmony, plans for a single European currency in this decade will have to be scaled back.
Communism's collapse in East Germany helped detonate the monetary crisis. Communism's collapse elsewhere in Europe demands new trade links, coordination on refugees and a workable collective security system. Europe needs to overcome the apathy, appeasement and obsolete imperial rivalries that have doomed its approach to Yugoslavia. And it needs to relieve Germany of its disproportionate refugee burden.
Eight Community members, including Denmark, still have to ratify the treaty before it can go into effect. That will require addressing grass-roots misgivings about, for instance, loss of sovereignty. Undoing Denmark's negative vote will also require some substantive change.
The close call in France highlights the need for wider citizen involvement in shaping a new Europe. People complain about "Brussels bureaucrats." But that's an oversimplification. Without Brussels functionaries to standardize the rules, there could be no Common Market. The problem does not lie with the bureaucrats but with the elected leaders who negotiated the treaty and arrogantly took their constituents for granted.
As the ratification process moves forward, those leaders, now chastened, will have to make midcourse adjustments on the way to a unified Europe, a reassured America and a more prosperous world.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); DENMARK (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); GERMANY (90%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); DENMARK (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); GERMANY (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; REFERENDUMS; PUBLIC OPINION MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); REFERENDUMS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EURO (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



685 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Boy, 15, Is Fatally Stabbed at School in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
A 15-year-old sophomore and varsity football star at South Shore High School in Brooklyn was fatally stabbed yesterday by a classmate wielding a dagger in a hallway fight, the police said. Moments later, a dean and a security guard at the school seized and disarmed a 16-year-old suspect.
The victim, Damion Ennis, of 670 East 82d Street, Brooklyn, was stabbed once in the chest at 1:35 P.M. in a struggle that spilled from a third-floor hallway into a stairwell of the sprawling, white-brick school at 6565 Flatlands Avenue in Canarsie, the police said. He died an hour later at Brookdale Hospital. 
 The police said the suspect, Michael Bubb, of 412 East 93d Street, Brooklyn, was charged as an adult with second-degree murder and possession of a deadly weapon. Detectives said they did not know the cause of the fight, but that the 7 1/2-inch dagger used in the stabbing "most likely" belonged to the suspect.
The slaying -- the first in the academic year that began two weeks ago in a school system that saw three students killed in the 1991-92 year, all at Thomas Jefferson High in Brooklyn -- occurred in a high school that the Schools Chancellor, Joseph A. Fernandez, yesterday called "one of the most stable in the entire school system."
School officials said South Shore High -- with 3,200 students whose racial balance of whites and blacks in almost equal numbers has changed little in recent years -- had relatively high reading and Regents' examination scores and no recent record of violence: only 40 of the school system's 4,952 reported "incidents" occurred there last year.
Because South Shore High was regarded as relatively safe, it was not one of the 40 high schools that are either now, or soon to be, equipped with metal detectors, a program intended to stem the tide of weapons that flow daily in and out of the schools. Some students at South Shore said, however, that many students there carried knives.
A student at the school, Louis Brown, 16, said that before the slaying yesterday, he saw Michael Bubb draw a knife on someone other than Damion Ennis. "I saw him pull a knife on a student in class earlier this day," the student said. "He pulled it out and threatened him, and the kid ran out of the classroom."
 
'He's Not a Fighter'
 But the suspect's mother, Gracelyn Harris, said the police had told her that Damion had attacked her son with a knife, and that her son had wrested the weapon away and stabbed the other boy in self-defense. "He's not a fighter," she said of her son, recalling that he had been beaten up by another teen-ager last year. "He's very nice, very sweet."
The victim and the suspect both were members of families that had migrated to New York from the Caribbean. Neither had a criminal record, according to the police, and school officials said both had learning disabilities and were enrolled in special education classes.
The slaying stunned the families of the victim and the suspect, as well as the students, faculty members and administrators at South Shore High, a four-story school built in 1971.
"He wasn't doing anything bad and he was a good kid," said Damion Ennis's mother, Joyce Smith, 34, an unemployed nurse's aide, who brought her son to New York from Kingston, Jamaica, three years ago. She said he had attended a football camp in Pennsylvania over the summer. "He played real good," she said.
The South Shore High football coach, Marty Senall, called Damion "a fine young man who had tremendous potential in football, as a student and as a human being." He said Damion played fullback on offense and nose guard on defense and had scored his team's first touchdown of the season in a 38-14 loss to Curtis High School last Saturday.
 
Called Quick to Anger
 Friends said Damion also was a member of the Down Low Posse, a group of students and neighborhood youths. "The posse is a family that looks out for each other," said Abel Etienne, 20, a member and former South Shore student. "We are not a gang. You can be in school and have respect. We deal with strictly positive vibes." The police said they knew nothing about the group.
Acquaintances of Michael Bubb said he had come to New York from Grenada two years ago and had been a second-string goalkeeper on the school soccer team last year. They called him a temperamental youth who teased others, but was quick to anger. But a 14-year-old girl said he was "nice" and "a friend," and was not known to carry a knife.
His mother, who said she works 70 hours a week at two jobs to raise five children, said Michael, the oldest of her four boys, was a stay-at-home who did not hang out with young toughs. "I have to run him from my bedroom," Mrs. Harris sobbed. "He's always on my shoulder. He always has girls calling him here. He never had boys around."
The nature of the dispute was not immediately determined, but investigators said the two youths knew each other.
Detective Capt. Richard Ward, commander of the 12th Division of Brooklyn South detectives, said the fight began in a third-floor hallway immediately after a seventh-period class, which ended at 1:30 P.M.
As other students ran for help, he said, the struggle spilled into a stairwell near the rotunda, Michael got Damion in a headlock with his left arm and, with his right, stabbed the youth once in the left side of the chest.
As Damion fell wounded and the assailant moved away, Neil Rosen, the school's dean of special education, who had been summoned by witnesses, ran up with a security guard. "It was a matter of seconds before Mr. Rosen entered the stairwell," Captain Ward said, "but it was too late."
The security guard disarmed and handcuffed Michael. Some students said it took a long time for medical aid to arrive, but the Emergency Medical Service said an ambulance was called at 1:39 P.M., arrived at 1:44 and rushed the victim to Brookdale, where he died at 2:40.
"Damion was part of us, part of all of us," his friend Abel Etienne said. "He was just talking about how he was going to make it in professional football. He had a great future."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students congregating around an entrance to South Shore High School in Brooklyn yesterday after a 15-year-old sophomore was stabbed to death.; Michael Bubb, charged with second-degree murder, was walked last night from the 69th Precinct in Brooklyn. (Photographs by Nick Malter for The New York Times) (pg. B3)
 
Map of Brooklyn showing the site of stabbing. (pg.B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH SHORE HIGH SCHOOL (BROOKLYN)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH SHORE HIGH SCHOOL (BROOKLYN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BROOKLYN (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; VIOLENCE; CRIME AND CRIMINALS VIOLENT CRIME (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); JUVENILE CRIME (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); MURDER (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); METAL DETECTORS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; ENNIS, DAMION; BUBB, MICHAEL; FERNANDEZ, JOSEPH A (CHANCELLOR) DAMION ENNIS (90%); MICHAEL BUBB (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



686 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-17
 
PEACEKEEPING ON A BUDGET
President Bush had much to say about upending agencies to meet the needs of the post-cold-war era. But his speech to the General Assembly skirted pledges of dollars or troops to prop up his promises. A1
 
The U.S. remains the biggest debtor on the United Nations ledger. A14
 

MENDING A CONTINENT
Now that the discontent over the European unity treaty has crystallized, leaders are looking for ways to sell the treaty to the continent. A1
 
Italy sighs while tightening its belt after the French referendum. A16
 
A new public sensitivity to ordinary people follows the treaty vote. A16
 
U.S. is criticized for contributing to the currency crisis. A17
 
Calm words are the cure for edgy voters and edgier markets. A17
 
RUSSIA WON'T COVER SOVIET DEBTS
Russia said it was not liable for the entire $70 billion foreign debt left by the Soviet Union, a refusal that complicates decisions about aid. A17
 
NIXON OFFICIALS TESTIFY
Two Nixon Administration officials said that in 1973 they agreed that American prisoners remained in Vietnam and Laos as U.S. forces were being withdrawn. A1
 
PEACE AND PERIL IN EL SALVADOR
Tension simmers in El Salvador, as tenets of a peace treaty go into effect, but peacekeepers do not foresee a coup attempt. A3
 
INDIA'S POLITICAL MACHINE
Criminal gangs in India are increasingly enmeshed in politics, a battleground for settling old scores and forming new power bases. A7
 
ETHNIC WAR, ECONOMIC ROOTS
In Georgia, deep economic problems are shrouded in ethnic hatred and masked by political subterfuge, but they cannot be forgotten.A8
 
FROM FIGUREHEAD TO OUTCAST
Arrest, exile and prison could not conquer Sanzo Nosaka, but fellow Communists in Japan dethroned him on the basis of a 1939 letter. A12
 
A new round of talks opens on ending the violence Northern Ireland. A10
 
Diplomacy alone is no match for Haiti's troubles. A5
 
After a century, Mexico and the Vatican re-establish full ties. A3
 
Lima Journal: The strong women who tread the Shining Path. A4
 
A 1989 report reveals details on ties to Iraq. A15
 
Obstacles are overcome in Mideast talks. A15
 
National A18-25
 
DOMINATING THE NEWS
Since the Republican convention, President Bush has succeeded in appearing on the news with far more regularity than Bill Clinton. Analysts attribute Mr. Bush's new air strength to a more aggressive campaign that has put the power of incumbency to good use, and to Mr. Clinton's adoption of a play-it-safe media strategy. A1
 
CLINTON'S BUSINESS BACKERS
Gov. Bill Clinton's fund-raising drive has been collecting millions of dollars from a growing cadre of Wall Street bankers and corporate executives who, until this year, had been dyed-in-the-wool Republicans. A24
 
RICHARD DARMAN, SURVIVOR
Despite his unpopularity in some quarters of the Republican party, Richard Darman, President Bush's wily budget director, has been sliding ever closer to the center of power. How he does it: hard work, flattery and intimidation. A25
 
Political Week: The draft and a new generation of politicians. A24
 
A GLUT IN PHILADELPHIA
As the economy in Philadelphia has soured and office vacancy rates have soared, enthusiasm has dwindled for a new Federal office building. The Government says it needs to gather its workers in one building, but real estate brokers favor cheap leases in empty towers. A18
 
AN UNUSUAL SCHOLARSHIP
The University of California has accepted a bequest from a school teacher and Berkeley alumna that will provide scholarships exclusively for poor white students, a first for the state system. A20
 
SEX ABUSE PANEL IS SET
Cardinal Bernadin of Chicago named a board to investigate charges of sexual abuse of minors by priests in the nation's second-largest diocese, part of what is billed as a comprehensive plan to combat abuse by the clergy. A21
 
Aladdin City Journal: Monkeys, parrots and Hurricane Andrew. A18
 
Metro Digest B1
 
OVERHAULING SHELTER SYSTEM
Mayor Dinkins announced an overhaul of New York's shelter system along the lines recommended by a mayoral panel that studied the issue earlier this year. A1
 
FATAL SCHOOL STABBING
A 15-year-old sophomore and varsity football star at South Shore High School in Brooklyn was fatally stabbed by a classmate wielding a dagger a hallway fight, the police said. A1
 
DEMOCRACY ON THE WEST SIDE
In a process that is part Machiavelli and part Marx Brothers, 962 Democratic county committee members who are almost never called on to do anything will meet to pick the next Congressman for 600,000 people in Manhattan and Brooklyn. A1
 
Science Times C1-12
 
Back to Mars, after 17 years. C1
 
A gene that stands guardian over cell division. C1
 
Throwing a shoe or two to trace ocean currents. C1
 
Vitamins backed against cholesterol-related heart disease. C1
 
A new effort to list species before they disappear. C4
Peripherals C6
 
Business Digest D1
 
Obituaries B8-9
 
Sir Geraint Evans, Welsh baritone. B8
 
Edward M. M. Warburg, benefactor of the arts. B9
 
David Bathurst, a former chairman of Christie's auction house. B9
 
Fashion Page B7
 
Designers look to spring.
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
Lincoln Center names 2 new directors. C17
 
Chess: Fischer so far. C18
 
Theater: "Brother Truckers." C13
 
Music: Concerts get new twist. C13
 
Classical Music in Review C14
 
Word and Image:
 
"Tonight" show executive producer is dismissed. C13
 
Sports B10-16
 
Baseball: Yanks debate expansion lists. B13
 
Basketball: Is that dead Knicks' deal alive? B11
 
Columns: Vecsey on Piniella. B11
 
On Pro Football B15
 
TV Sports B15
 
Football: Giants defeat Bears. B11
 
Coslet refuses to panic about Jets' 0-3 start. B11
 
Soccer: Making the Cup safe. B16
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
Forward with Europe.
 
Symbol, substance and the police.
 
Sophistry in Detroit.
 
Democratic? Only in name.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Our German business.
 
Russell Baker: No afford in this future.
 
William Broyles: Clinton wouldn't enlist. He was right.
 
Mike Morton and Sabra Morton: The great computer debate!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); HAITI (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); GEORGIA (76%); VIET NAM (75%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (70%); HOLY SEE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); HAITI (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); GEORGIA (76%); VIET NAM (75%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (70%); HOLY SEE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PEACEKEEPING (90%); COLD WAR (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); COUPS (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); REFERENDUMS (70%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (64%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



687 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: THE U.N. ASSEMBLY;
Bush, in Address to U.N., Urges More Vigor in Keeping the Peace

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 21

 BODY:
President Bush told United Nations members today that Washington was ready to support a greatly expanded role for peacekeeping missions and to adapt the United States military to better assist in such operations.
But despite his stated willingness to promote the United Nations' role in preserving the peace, Mr. Bush did not offer ground troops for the 12 peacekeeping operations under way. Nor did he offer any new money for such tasks, or promise to pay the $733.1 million in dues and arrears that Washington owes to the United Nations. 
 Mr. Bush also did not agree to Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali's suggestion that all members keep troops on standby for emergency peacekeeping needs. "Member states, as always, must retain the final decision on the use of their troops," he said. [Excerpts, page A14.]
 
An Expanding Need
 In his remarks, which received polite applause as the General Assembly opened its 47th session, Mr. Bush provided backing, however, for other proposals in what Secretary General Boutros-Ghali calls his Agenda for Peace, a plan published in June to expand peacekeeping operations to deal with the mounting inter-ethnic battles and other crises.
Noting that "peacekeepers are stretched to the limit, while demands for their services increase by the day," Mr. Bush said he would discuss with other United Nations members convening a Security Council summit meeting to discuss Mr. Boutros-Ghali's proposals.
The Agenda for Peace proposed a $50 million peacekeeping start-up fund and a $1 billion peacekeeping endowment fund. Mr. Bush himself made no commitments on these suggestions, but said he was prepared to "review how we fund peacekeeping and explore new ways to ensure adequate American financial support for United Nations peacekeeping."
Mr. Boutros-Ghali has suggested that member states include their United Nations contributions in their defense budgets, which usually get passed much more easily than foreign aid or special supplements for United Nations dues.
Getting to what the United States was prepared to do now as an example to others, Mr. Bush said he was directing Defense Secretary Dick Cheney to make United States military bases, intelligence agencies and engineering units better able to take part in peacekeeping operations. He is also to establish a peacekeeping curriculum in military academies, something that already exists in Scandinavia.
"Because of peacekeeping's growing importance as a mission for the United States military, we will emphasize training of combat, engineering and logistical units for the full range of peacekeeping and humanitarian activities," Mr. Bush said.
"And we will work with the United Nations to best employ our considerable lift, logistics, communications and intelligence capabilities to support peacekeeping operations. And we will offer our capabilities for joint simulations and exercises to strengthen our ability to undertake joint peacekeeping operations."
Mr. Bush also said United Nations members must transform their defense institutions and foreign policies to better cope with the new economic and military challenges of the post-cold-war world.
 
No New Money
 His address was in keeping with the overall approach of the Administration in this election season: It has sought to adapt American policy to the challenges of the post-cold-war world without having to ask voters to spend more money or risk American lives.
While the President's speech contained various proposals, he provided few details. Several of the proposals would require the approval of Congress.
Mr. Bush told the General Assembly that he would order changes in the Agency for International Development and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. A.I.D. is to be recast to better assist emerging democracies in former Communist lands in the transformation to free markets. The arms control agency, which used to focus on Soviet-American arms control, is to concentrate on limiting missile proliferation.
The President also said he would propose to Congress the creation of a $1 billion fund of grants and credits for United States businesses investing in the emerging democracies of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. This would come from the existing foreign aid budget, but Mr. Bush did not say which aid recipients would have to give up grants as a result.
 
Offers Few Details
 "We face the political challenge of keeping today's peace and preventing tomorrow's wars," said Mr. Bush. "We face the strategic challenge of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We face the common economic challenge of promoting prosperity for all. Meeting these challenges will require us . . . to transform our collective institutions and look seriously at our own governments and how we conduct our international affairs."
Senator David Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma and chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said many of the ideas in Mr. Bush's speech -- including expanded peacekeeping training for troops and using the foreign-aid funds to promote trade with emerging democracies -- had been suggested by him and other Senate Democrats months ago, and initially resisted by the Administration. For example, the Senate voted last week to allow the Defense Department to spend up to $300 million a year to help with United Nations peacekeeping operations, in an amendment sponsored by Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan.
The President opened his address with what seemed like a political shot at Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, his opponent in the Presidential election, who has been criticized, especially by Republicans, for having avoided the draft during the Vietnam war.
The first words of Mr. Bush's address were: "Forty-seven years ago I was a young man of 21, and like thousands of others of my generation, I'd gone off to war to help keep freedom alive."
Mr. Bush has been trying to draw a contrast between himself and Governor Clinton in almost every speech.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush addressing the General Assembly yesterday. (pg. A1); Acting Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger, center, listening to President Bush's speech yesterday before the General Assembly. With him were Brent Scowcroft, far left, the national security adviser, and Edward J. Perkins, the United States delegate to the United Nations. (pg. A14) (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (53%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (53%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (53%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (53%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); PEACEKEEPING (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); CURRICULA (64%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BOUTROS-GHALI, BOUTROS (SEC GEN); CHENEY, DICK (SEC) DICK CHENEY (59%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



688 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
BankAmerica said it would acquire $7.5 billion of deposits from First Gibraltar Savings, a Dallas-based savings and loan association, and First Union said it would buy Dominion Bankshares, a $9.4 billion banking company based in Roanoke, Va. [Page D1.]
Goldman, Sachs & Company earned more than $1 billion in pretax profits last year, Investment Dealers' Digest reported, citing a memorandum the private firm filed with the S.E.C. in connection with issuing $200 million of debt securities. [D1.]
Microsoft was sharply criticized by three top computer industry executives at an industry conference in California. [D3.]
I.B.M. announced 12 new models in its PS/2 personal computer line and expanded customer service. [D3.]
Wall Street applauded Primerica's deal to buy 27 percent of Travelers. Travelers' stock surged $3.125, to $20.625. [D3.]
Philip Morris named John N. MacDonough, a top marketing executive at a rival, Anheuser-Busch, as president and chief operating officer of its Miller Brewing Company division. [D4.]
Pepsi-Cola streamlined its organizational structure, removing two layers of management. [D4.]
Nike's first-quarter profits rose 7.1 percent, and its stock rose 75 cents, to $76.375. [D4.]
 
International
The French franc, the pound, the lira and the peseta dropped relative to the German mark in a clear sign that France's narrow approval of the European unification treaty on Sunday has not ended the economic upheaval of the last week. [D1.]
European officials contended that the weak dollar and low American interest rates contributed to the crisis in currency markets. The Bush Administration disagreed. [A17.]
European leaders' soothing words, calculated to calm edgy voters and edgier financial markets, will not soon repair the trauma suffered by the European currency system. [A17.]
Trade negotiations between Washington and Beijing to conclude a pact by Oct. 10 are expected to be only the beginning of years of tough trade talks for China. [D27.]
 
The Economy
A bill to regulate cable television prices moved forward as Senate opponents agreed to a vote today. [D2.]
A growing cadre of bankers and and executives are supporting the Clinton-Gore campaign with money and endorsements. [A24.]
 
Markets
New York City plans an issue of its popular "mini bonds" with a face amount of $5,000 for small investors in October. Prices fell in the Treasury market. [D23.]
Big Board short sales were at a record between mid-August and mid-September, showing bearish sentiment among some professional investors. [D18.]
Stock prices slipped in light, cautious trading dominated by uncertainty over Europe's proposed monetary union. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 6.22 points to close at 3,320.83. [D6.]
Natural-gas prices continued surging, with the contract for October delivery up 12.4 cents to $2.452 for 1,000 cubic feet. [D24.] Both the dollar and gold fell. [D24.]
 
Today's Columns
European stocks appear to be bargains, but analysts caution that a decline in European currencies against the dollar could offset gains for American investors. Market Place. [D1.]
With the huge military industry shrinking, the idled factories and 300,000 lost jobs seem to be inflicting permanent damage on the American economy. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
Marketers are going the oldies-but-goodies route, with second- chance promotions for brands like Breck hair care and Johnnie Walker Scotch. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D25.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); PRI (NYSE) (56%); NKE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (69%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (69%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (56%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (55%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (55%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (55%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MILLER BREWING CO (69%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); PRIMERICA INC (56%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (56%); NIKE INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%); DALLAS, TX, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); EURO (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (79%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); BONDS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); NATURAL GAS (70%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (68%); BOND MARKETS (68%); GERMAN MARK (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); APPROVALS (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



689 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1823 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Campaign Profile;
A Primer: How the White House Budget Czar Not Only Survives, but Thrives

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
So how does Richard G. Darman do it?
In every society, in every age, there are courtiers who possess many enemies, but also bewitching powers that allow them to stay close to the throne. 
 At the Republican convention in Houston, there was pressure on President Bush to sacrifice his budget director, a principal figure behind Mr. Bush's hands-off economic policy and tax-raising budget deal, to win conservative support.
Some college Young Republicans in Orange County, Calif., got so exercised about the matter that they drew up a (presumably mock) resolution to find Mr. Darman on the floor of the convention and beat him "within an inch of his life."
 
Machiavelli Plays Elvis
 But while President Bush has been repenting his economic mistakes on the campaign trail -- "Raising taxes won't cut the deficit," he assures audiences -- Mr. Darman has been sidling even closer to the center of power.
The Machiavellian budget czar said he would reprise his 1988 role of playing the Democratic candidate in debate rehearsals with Mr. Bush. Four years ago, he showed up to play Gov. Michael S. Dukakis with a tank helmet and a box on which to stand.
For this year's costume, he said, "I'm torn between Elvis with a white scarf or the Arsenio Hall look, with shades and a saxophone." Asked whether he would be the old Elvis or the young Elvis, the pudgy budget director with the slicked-back dark hair and the unlimited confidence replied, "I think I'm stuck with the old Elvis now, though there was a time. . ."
 
An Exclusive Group
 If Mr. Darman seems to be strutting, maybe it is because his mentor, James A. Baker 3d, just swept into the White House and pulled the budget director into his exclusive core group of transplanted State Department aides.
Mr. Darman polished his chameleon skills and bureaucratic bank shots as an aide to Mr. Baker in the Reagan White House when Mr. Baker was chief of staff, and then followed him to the Treasury Department.
While Mr. Darman may act a lot more like "a choir boy" around Mr. Baker, as one Bush official put it, he has not given up his devilish delight in the black arts of backstabbing, infighting, leaking and turf building.
"There are not too many people who have survived five Presidencies," the official mused.
Taking the reminiscences of those who have worked closely with him, as well as some commentary from Mr. Darman himself, it is possible to deduce the five secrets of how to succeed in the bureaucracy by really trying.
RULE NO. 1. Work harder than anyone else, be more prepared and add a dash of psychological intimidation.
As a boy, Mr. Darman once queried a teacher about a final question on a test, as a way of intimidating the other students into thinking he was almost finished. As an adult, Mr. Darman sometimes managed to convey the impression that he was the last one working in the Reagan White House by leaving his suit coat on his chair and his office light burning after he left for home.
Mr. Darman claims that he was motivated only by sartorial convenience: "The truth is, I'd go home and leave my jacket on the chair and I'd put on the same jacket the next morning."
He tries to know more than anyone else in the room on any issue, and he always reads all the abstruse paragraphs in briefing papers that others, to their peril, skip.
Edward J. Rollins recalled that during the 1984 Reagan re-election campaign, Mr. Darman wanted to know what books he could read on how to run a campaign and was nettled when Mr. Rollins, the campaign manager, replied that he had to learn by experience. Mr. Darman did not accept that.
He began reading war strategy books provided by Lee Atwater, a campaign aide and who would become an architect of Mr. Bush's 1988 victory, and he stayed up one night studying Gary Hart's book on public policy. When the Reagan team began speculating about what direction Mr. Hart might take, Mr. Darman produced underlined passages in the Hart book.
Bush officials who have studied this Master of the Bureaucratic Universe say he swiftly establishes primacy in relationships with subordinates by asking a question on a subject he is certain he knows more about, then correcting the subordinate's answer, even if it is only a tad off.
In the days when he and the former chief of staff, John H. Sununu, were dominating domestic policy with what one Bush aide describes as "Torquemada-like glee," Mr. Darman was asked by a conservative columnist why the Bush speech writers had no fresh ideas. "That's the way we want it," Mr. Darman replied, smiling.
Certainly, Marlin Fitzwater, the President's press spokesman, who has seen Mr. Darman yell and throw papers on the floor on occasion, was too intimidated to talk about the budget chief.
"Too dangerous," he said. "Too scary."
RULE NO. 2. Flatter up.
While some subordinates complain Mr. Darman can be rude, and some rivals call him remorseless, he can be charming and witty to those he would capture. Some rivals say Mr. Darman even changes the tone of his voice when he addresses President Bush, to make it more respectful and soothing.
"Over time, Dick has figured out the psychology of the Presidents he's working with, what they need," said David Gergen, an editor at U.S. News and World Report who worked with him in the Reagan White House. "He is one of the few people who thinks about this in a consistent way and watches in a close way how to act so that he will become indispensable."
In the beginning, Mr. Darman passed on too much paper to President Ronald Reagan. But over time, Mr. Gergen said, Mr. Darman came to understand "the importance of anecdote" and the way "to send him the critical papers without sending him 5,000 pieces of paper."
President Bush, after an initial period of chariness because he believed Mr. Darman was a source of negative commentary about him in the Reagan era, has grown comfortable with the former Harvard professor. Despite Mr. Bush's snide references to "intellectuals out there in the Harvard schools" who are advising Gov. Bill Clinton, the Connecticut Yalie prefers wealthy Ivy League types like himself. And both the President and Mr. Darman are pragmatists and creatures of Washington.
Mr. Darman reinforced the President's feeling that there is not much the Government can do to fix a sick economy except wait, and he has played up to Mr. Bush's wacky sense of humor, donning a gorilla suit for the President's birthday in 1989. (Although even Mr. Bush looked a bit taken aback by that.)
Vice President Dan Quayle is just the sort of winging-it, homework-resistant type that Mr. Darman would be likely to chew up if Mr. Quayle were a subordinate. But Mr. Darman has formed a surprisingly close relationship with the Vice President. The budget chief was one of the guests at Marilyn Quayle's intimate birthday party at the trendy Southwestern restaurant Red Sage, and he was featured in the acknowledgements of her novel, "Embrace the Serpent," for reading an early draft and offering some advice.
RULE NO. 3. Get control of the paper.
While critics have complained that he has occasionally played shell games with budget numbers, and while Bush aides say that Mr. Darman's political instincts are erratic, he is one of the rare Republicans who has mastered the arcane subject of how the Government works.
As Mr. Darman has pointed out, if you control the first draft, you control history.
When he first started in the Reagan Administration, he happily took the low-level job of staff secretary, with an office in the White House basement, because it allowed him to control what papers went to the desk of the President and other top officials.
Mr. Darman's associates say he has never confused public visibility with true influence. He is known for gaining the upper hand by pulling out a sheet of paper at a pivotal point in a meeting, near the start or the end, "just a few thoughts," so that his paper becomes the one that is marked up, "the beginning document."
This trick particularly flummoxed Samuel K. Skinner, the indecisive chief of staff who came in telling people he would curb, and perhaps banish, Mr. Darman. But the budget chief knew instantly that Mr. Skinner was no match for him and privately held the chief of staff in contempt for not trying to form an alliance with him. Rather, Mr. Skinner started off by telling The National Journal that the 49-year-old Mr. Darman was "a talented young man" with waning influence.
"Poor Skinner," one White House official said. "Darman made sure he got blamed for everything, even on the rare occasions when he wasn't at fault."
RULE NO. 4. Even if you believe in the power of the few, or the one, keep some proletarian touches.
He cuts his own hair. Badly.
He eats breakfast and lunch at the staff table in the White House mess on most days, picking up gossip and expounding on why this or that idea will or will not work, based on his more than two decades in Washington.
His social life is limited, and his preferred restaurant is McDonald's, where he orders either Special No. 3 -- a Quarterpounder and fries -- or No. 4 -- a grilled McChicken. "Occasionally," he confessed, "I veer off to nine McNuggets."
RULE NO. 5. Dare to be petty.
To the amusement of White House aides, Mr. Darman has stopped attending morning senior staff meetings, where he once reigned with the panache of a cat toying with a rubber mouse. The ostensible reason is that he no longer needs to, now that he is in the Baker clique. But Darman-watchers suggest that he no longer goes because the meetings are now run by someone he considers a respected junior: Robert Zoellick, who was Mr. Darman's aide at the Treasury Department.
Although he claims he has mellowed, Mr. Darman has been known to get upset over exceedingly small things. After an otherwise favorable article about him once, he was angry that he was described as "portly," and he can be picky on everything from camera angles to picture captions. During the Reagan years, he was always so furious about being referred to in the press as a "Baker aide," that his colleagues presented him with a license plate with that moniker.
Although he grants audiences to favored reporters, he often sets elaborate rules in return for his cooperation, rarely allows himself to be quoted by name and freezes out those who displease him. He prefers live television to print because he feels he has more control, and especially likes David Brinkley's Sunday morning program because he is allowed to be last, so he gets the last word.
With reporters, he also aims for the psychological edge.
"You went to Radcliffe, didn't you?" he interrupts an interviewer who did not. He told another young reporter, after excusing himself to take a phone call from his good friend, the famed investigative reporter at The Washington Post: "That was your colleague, Bob Woodward."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard G. Darman, the budget director, has earned his own Washington adjective -- Darmanesque -- for his hard work and preparation coupled with a dash of psychological intimidation. Mr. Darman listened to testimony at a House budget hearing in July. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Richard Gordon Darman"
 Born: May 10, 1943, Charlotte, N.C.
 Current home: McLean, Va.
 Education: Rivers Country Day School (1960), Weston, Mass.; Harvard College, B.A. cum laude (1964); Harvard Business School, M.B.A. (1967).
 Career: Deputy Assistant Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, 1971-72; assistant to the Secretary of Defense, 1973; special assistant to the Attorney General, 1973; fellow, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, 1974; director, ICF, Inc., 1975 and 1977-80; assistant secretary for policy, Commerce Department, 1976-77; lecturer in public policy and management, Harvard University, 1977-80; executive director, White House Transition team, 1980-81; assistant to the President and deputy chief of staff, 1981-85; Deputy Treasury Secretary, 1985-87; managing director, Shearson-Lehman Bros., Inc., 1987-88; director, Office of Management and Budget, 1989-present.
 Family: Married to Kathleen Emmett. Two sons, William and Jonathan.
 Interests: Work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); POLITICS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; DARMAN, RICHARD G; DARMAN, RICHARD G (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



690 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Sudan Worker for U.S. Is Believed Executed

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
The Sudanese Government is believed to have executed a United States Government employee on charges of treason despite strong objections from Washington, the State Department said today.
A department spokesman, Joseph Snyder, said the United States had expressed its "gravest concern" to the Sudanese Government. 
 The authorities are thought to have executed Andrew Tombe, a 34-year-old Sudanese employee of the Agency for International Development in the southern city of Juba. The city is a stronghold of a rebel movement that has been at war with the Muslim Arab-dominated government in Khartoum. The southern part of the Sudan is mainly Christian and animist.
"Based on our own knowledge of Mr. Tombe, we do not think he was guilty of these charges," Mr. Snyder said.
The Sudanese Ambassador in Washington did not immediately comment on the execution or the American response.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SUDAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

CITY: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (73%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUDAN SUDAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: TREASON; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TREASON (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (85%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); 

PERSON: TOMBE, ANDREW ANDREW TOMBE (75%); JOSEPH SNYDER (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



691 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: THE U.N. ASSEMBLY;
With U.S. the Biggest Debtor, President Finds U.N. Skeptical

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 21

 BODY:
President Bush's words of support for United Nations peacekeeping in his speech to the General Assembly today, coupled with a vague promise to "insure adequate American financial support," was greeted with skepticism by United Nations budget officials who last week issued figures showing that the United States remains the organization's largest debtor.
What is new this year about the United Nations' perennial financial crisis is not how much money America owes, but the additional burden from the lands of the former Soviet Union, which, beset by deepening economic woes, have been unable to contribute anything toward the organization's costs so far, officials say. 
 As a result, the United Nations finds itself caught up in a double financial squeeze -- despite its increased prestige and usefulness in the post-cold-war world. It is borrowing money from peacekeeping accounts to meet its monthly payroll and then shuffling cash from one peacekeeping operation to another to meet those obligations.
The United States is by far the largest debtor, owing a total of $733.1 million in regular budget and peacekeeping dues, the latest figures show.
Russia is the second-biggest debtor, owing $420.3 million to the regular budget and for peacekeeping, while two other former Soviet republics, Ukraine and Belarus, owe $45.8 million and $12.5 million, respectively.
Together, the 179 United Nations members are more than $1.5 billion behind in their payments, owing $831.2 million in regular budget dues and $735.2 million more for peacekeeping.
The United States is the organization's second-largest debtor for the peacekeeping operations, owing $208.7 million, largely for the efforts in southern Lebanon and Cambodia. Russia is the largest in this category, with unpaid obligations of $282.2 million.
 
U.S. Alters Its Bill
 Far larger than its peacekeeping debts are America's unpaid regular budget dues, which now stand at $524.4 million. For this year, the United Nations set Washington's regular contribution at $298.6 million. Congress is offering $282 million, subtracting about $16 million for a dispute over income-tax payments by Americans working for the organization and for activities it refuses to finance, like help for the Palestine Liberation Organization.
The United States never pays its regular assessment before October, though it is due at the start of the calendar year. The Bush Administration has promised to pay $225 million in October and $57 million by year's end.
Meanwhile, the United States' back dues for regular budgets, dating to the years when it deliberately underfunded the United Nations to show disapproval of its actions, are being wound down under a program approved by Congress in 1991. This provides for the balance to be paid off over five years.
Under this program, the United States paid off $46 million in back regular dues last year and $40 million more this year.
Congress is moving to establish a peacekeeping contingency fund to help finance the American share of start-up costs so that peace operations can get going faster. Mr. Bush requested $700 million for this, but Congress appears likely to appropriate a smaller amount, perhaps in the $500 million range.
Senator Paul Simon, Democrat of Illinois, has proposed legislation that would charge peacekeeping bills to the Defense Department, as part of the cost of maintaining national security.
The United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, has proposed that all countries take a similar approach, charging their peacekeeping bills to defense budgets -- which Parliaments tend to approve more quickly than United Nations assessments.
At Senate hearings on Mr. Simon's proposal earlier this summer, Defense and State Department officials indicated that they were opposed to the idea.


GRAPHIC: Countries with biggest cumulative unpaid bills to the United Nations on Aug. 31, 1992.
 

Top ten	 	 	 	 	 	 1	U.S.	$733 million	 2	Russia	420 million	 3	South Africa	71 million	 4	Japan	54 million	 5	Ukraine	46 million	 6	Brazil	39 million	 7	Italy	30 million	 8	Poland	17 million	 9	Germany	16 million	10	Iran	13	
 
Total unpaid contributions: $1,566,440,402
 
(Source: United Nations Under-secretary General for Administration and Management)
Table: "Past Due"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AFG (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UKRAINE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); BELARUS (79%); LEBANON (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (58%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UKRAINE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); BELARUS (79%); LEBANON (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); PEACEKEEPING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); APPROVALS (72%); INCOME TAX (50%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



692 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
Bush Says Economy Is Not as Bad as People Think

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Hours after his Democratic rival began broadcasting a television commercial accusing him of misjudging Americans' economic pain, President Bush told a national radio audience today that the economy was not nearly as bad as people believed.
In an interview with Rush Limbaugh, the conservative radio talk-show host, Mr. Bush said that the economy was "poised for a dramatic recovery" and maintained that most people believed otherwise because they paid too much heed to the news media. 
 "I think they're feeling negative about the economy because they hear 92 percent of the coverage on the television -- where a lot of people get their news from -- on the economy has been negative," he said. "There are some good things. Interest rates are down. People aren't being robbed by inflation anymore. Inventories are down."
 
Bush Attacks Clinton on Draft
 He added: "A lot of people think we're in a deep recession in this country. The irony is we are growing and we've grown for five quarters. Now, don't tell that to a guy that's worrying about his job tomorrow, but I am telling you, the fact that they've had hammered into them that things are a total disaster is influencing people's judgments."
The President's comments came the day after Gov. Bill Clinton's campaign broadcast its first television attack on Mr. Bush. The advertisement alternates film clips of Mr. Bush making cheery economic pronouncements with bleak statements about rising joblessness. "If George Bush doesn't understand the problem, how can he solve it?" the commercial says at the end.
Mr. Bush also spoke harshly about Mr. Clinton's explanation of his efforts to avoid the draft during the Vietnam War, saying his rival was guilty of a "total failure to come clean with the American people" on the issue.
Responding today in Chicago, Mr. Clinton said he had been straightforward on the draft matter, and cited an endorsement last weekend by Adm. William J. Crowe Jr., the retired head of the Joints Chiefs of Staff, as evidence that the issue should now be forgotten.
"Admiral Crowe has more credibility on truth-telling than George Bush," Mr. Clinton said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with Rush Limbaugh during an interview yesterday on Mr. Limbaugh's radio program. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; RADIO CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); INVENTORIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (54%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); LIMBAUGH, RUSH GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



693 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: DECISION FOR EUROPE;
Continent Weighs Hopes and Fears About Having One Big Central Bank

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
Like squabbling parents anxious not to disturb the children, European officials unhinged by Europe's sudden currency crisis have lowered their voices. But soothing words calculated to calm edgy voters and edgier financial markets will not soon repair the trauma of a week that began with the fracturing of the European currency system and ended with French voters approving by the narrowest of margins a single currency for Europe.
The delay may not be entirely a bad thing. For while the financial follies undermined prospects for a speedy transition to a common currency controlled by a common central bank, the crisis itself was precipitated by the model for that vision -- Germany's very independent Bundesbank. And skeptics are now in a better position to force an open debate on whether democratic Europe can afford to surrender its economic fate to the hands of a few unelected central bankers -- or, indeed, whether it can afford not to.
 
Controlling the Flow
 Central banks, like the Bank of France and the Bank of Japan, are in charge of their national supplies of money. They may not actually print it: in the modern world, money largely consists of deposits in checking accounts. But they can effectively control how much is available to borrow, and at what interest rate. And that in turn has enormous influence on the demand for everything from refrigerators to shopping malls. 
 In most countries the central banks take their marching orders from the president or prime minister. In fact, the whole tradition of central banking evolved from the symbiosis of private financiers and their government patrons. The bankers raised capital, informally policed the practices of less-well-connected banks and shuffled documents for governments, in return receiving monopolies over lucrative commercial banking services. The Bank of England, incidentally, only lost its status as a private institution in 1946.
There was, however, one giant exception: the United States Federal Reserve, chartered in 1914. The Fed's enormous potential to influence output and employment by dictating interest rates was not initially understood; the idea was, more simply, to create a public lender of last resort that would deter periodic bank runs, like the one in "It's a Wonderful Life."
 
A Hybrid Creature
 But the Fed's independence from daily politics -- governors are appointed to 14-year terms that overlap Presidential elections -- survived its gradual accretion of power. And the Fed was seen as so successful a hybrid that it was used as a model for the Bundesbank after the restoration of democracy in Germany.
The appeal is understandable, especially in an era in which governments are routinely expected to do everything from cleaning the air to paying the pensions of the retired. Elected officials are subject to enormous pressures to spend more and tax less -- hence Washington's $300-billion-plus budget deficit. An independent central bank, with its power to raise interest rates, can trim private spending to offset a government's inclination to profligacy. The result: stabler prices.
What works in the United States seems to work elsewhere. Some countries, notably Japan and the Netherlands, managed to avoid inflation in the 1970's and 1980's without shielding their banks from parliamentary arm-twisting. But these are exceptions. Alberto Alesina, an economist at Harvard, found that as a rule independence has been closely linked to low inflation: Germany and Switzerland, the industrialized democracies with the stablest prices, have the most independent central banks.
Indeed, the idea is so attractive that it served as the catalyst for European monetary union. While many of the leaders who signed the Maastricht accord last December dreamt of ultimately converting the European Community into a true United States of Europe, a common currency run by a single central bank was widely touted for its potential to bring the discipline imposed by the Bundesbank to the rest of Europe. It may seem ironic, then, that the Bundesbank has had a hand -- indeed, the leading role -- in knocking Maastricht off track.
 
Fighting Inflation
 Two years ago the Bundesbank warned that the German Government's policy of supporting high wages in eastern Germany before the wages were earned through high productivity would be inflationary. The bankers repeated the warning when Chancellor Helmut Kohl decided to pay for reunification by borrowing, and Germany's unions responded by demanding wage increases to cover the likely rise in the cost of living. And they did more than warn: The Bundesbank has jacked up interest rates by three percentage points since 1990, even as interest rates were falling sharply in recession-mired America.
The result was a surge of foreign investment in German bank deposits that drove up the value of the mark against the dollar, and forced other European countries to raise interest rates to maintain a fixed exchange with German currency.
The fixed exchange-rate system within Europe finally broke down last week when the Bundesbank made only a token gesture at diluting its anti-inflation medicine. Too many people with deep pockets decided that the sluggish British economy simply could not -- and therefore would not -- pay German-level interest rates much longer.
The very independent Bundesbank has disabled the Maastricht juggernaut, perhaps putting it out of commission for good. Does that mean a united Europe would be worse off with a German-style central bank?
Not exactly. The Bundesbank's first priority -- by all accounts supported by the German electorate -- is to stop inflation in Germany. A European central bank would presumably defend broader European interests. Indeed, supporters of the Maastricht treaty in France argued, apparently to some effect, that a European central bank was needed to prevent the Bundesbank from putting German interests ahead of Europe's.
 
Bearing the Burdens
 But there are still reasons for Europeans to be uneasy about the proposed superbank. The heterogeneity of the greater European economy almost guarantees that the best monetary policy this month for, say, Spain, will not be the best policy for the Netherlands. That means Europe would generally either have a monetary policy that is a compromise, or one that forces regions in recession to bear a disproportionate cost of keeping prices stable in booming parts of the community.
Richard Cooper, an economist at Harvard, believes this inherent tension would be magnified by a lack of oversight. While the Bundesbank is indeed independent from direct interference, Mr. Cooper points out that it still must retain the confidence of the governed. After all, the same legislature that created the Bundesbank could always abolish it or limit its powers.
But the Maastricht design effectively requires a change in the treaty to change the bank. That would transform the decision makers into what Mr. Cooper calls "Platonic central bankers" -- philosopher-kings answerable to no one, once they are appointed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY BANK OF JAPAN (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CENTRAL BANKS (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



694 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: DECISION FOR EUROPE;
Text of Europeans' Statement at the U.N.

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement issued today by the foreign ministers of the members of the European Community, convened as the General Affairs Council:
The General Affairs Council met in extraordinary session in New York on Sept. 21. 
 The council warmly welcomed the positive result of the French referendum on the Treaty on European Union signed in Maastricht on Feb. 7.
The council noted with satisfaction that certain member states have already ratified the draft treaty, and that ratification procedures were well advanced in most other member states. They attached high priority to the speedy and successful conclusion of the process, without reopening the present text, on the timing foreseen in Article R of the treaty.
[Article R states: "1. The Treaty shall be ratified by the High Contracting Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the government of the Italian Republic. 2. The Treaty shall enter into force on 1 January 1993, provided that all the instruments of ratification have been deposited, or failing that, on the first day of the month following the deposit of the instrument of ratification by the last signatory State to take this step. ]
The council also welcomed the statement issued on Sept. 20 by economic and finance ministers meeting in Washington, in which they expressed the view that the French referendum result will ease tension in the foreign-exchange markets and reiterated their commitment to the European Monetary System as a key factor for economic stability and prosperity in Europe.
The council welcomed at the same time the wide debate which has taken place in all the member states over recent months with regard to the future development of the European construction. They pledged their determination to ensure that the preoccupations which had been brought to the forefront in this public discussion will find specific responses in the future development of Europe internally and externally.
The council welcomed the presidency's decision to convene an early, special European Council to consider these issues. [Britain holds the rotating presidency of the community.]
The council also welcomed the determination of the presidency to press ahead quickly with urgent business, including the completion of the single market by the end of 1992 and the negotiations on the community's finances, in accordance with the timetables and priorities set by the European Council in Lisbon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); ITALY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



695 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: 2 Big Banks Set Plans To Expand

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Continuing the industry trend toward fewer but larger banks, the BankAmerica Corporation announced plans yesterday to acquire $7.5 billion of deposits from First Gibraltar Savings, a Dallas-based savings and loan, and the First Union Corporation said it would buy Dominion Bankshares, a $9.4 billion banking company based in Roanoke, Va.
Both BankAmerica, which operates large banks in seven states, and First Union, which will now have large banks in six states, are old hands at acquiring other companies. Analysts expect them to move quickly to improve the profits of their new acquisitions by cutting costs. Each bank has smaller operations in other states as well. 
 BankAmerica, which already has about $4 billion of deposits and 130 branches in Texas, mostly from its acquisition this year of Sunbelt Savings, faces the daunting task of converting those deposit-rich but loan-poor offices into more conventional bank offices with more lending and more checking account customers.
 
 
Product of 'Southwest Plan'
 First Gibraltar is the descendant of five failed Texas savings and loans that Federal regulators sold in 1988 to Ronald O. Perelman for $315 million. Mr. Perelman, who was given $900 million in Federal tax breaks, bought the company as part of the "Southwest plan," under which Federal regulators were trying to stave off the collapse of the savings and loan deposit insurance fund by hurriedly selling failed savings institutions on favorable terms to private investors.
Mr. Perelman, who also controls Revlon Inc. through his investment company, MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings, which also owns First Gibraltar, was never expected to be a long-term owner of the bank. He has been negotiating the sale of various parts of the company for months.
The BankAmerica purchase does not include four of First Gibraltar's branches in Plano, Tex., or its mortgage-banking subsidiary.
For First Union, of Charlotte, N.C., the new acquisition is an important move into markets where it had little presence, in Virginia, Tennessee and the District of Columbia. First Union, whose appetite for acquisitions in the 1980's gave its chairman, Edward A. Crutchfield Jr., the nickname Fast Eddy, felt it was now able to handle a large new purchase because it had completed its acquisition of the Southeast Banking Corporation, a failed Miami-based company it acquired a year ago.
 Many investors were unhappy with First Union because it paid high prices for acquisitions in the mid-1980's. But the company recently pledged to limit itself to purchases that will be quickly profitable, and yesterday it forecast earnings of $487.5 million for this year, 70 percent higher than in 1991.
Dominion has been hit hard by losses on commercial real estate loans in the last two years. But its financial condition is not so weak that it is considered a candidate for takeover by Government regulators.
The opportunities to cut costs after mergers have been the catalyst for American banks to announce, thus far this year, the acquisition of $98.9 billion of deposits from other banks, plus an additional $67.2 billion from savings institutions, according to SNL Securities of Charlottesville, Va.
The pace of bank mergers is slower this year than in 1991, when $253.7 billion of bank deposits and $89.5 billion of savings institution deposits changed hands. But the pace of bank mergers and acquistions remains at a near-record pace.
 
Rich Banks Getting Richer
 The most acquisitive banks are generally those like BankAmerica and First Union that retained their financial strength through the recent downturn in real estate prices and the economy. In banking, the rich are getting richer, as acquisitions of weaker institutions lead to higher profits and greater financial strength, which in turn makes it easier to arrange the next acquisition.
"The process of merger and acquisition among banks can feed on itself," said Ronald Mandle, a banking analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. "Once a bank is established in a market, additional acquisitions become more likely, since they would be part of the bank's existing market and have the potential for large cost savings."
At First Union, for example, executives have already said the acquisition of Dominion will sharpen their appetite for some of the other banks in the Washington market, particularly First American Bankshares.
First American's executives, who are now breaking the company's legal ties to Arab investors associated with the failed Bank of Credit and Commerce International, have said they expect First American to be acquired eventually by another bnaking company.
The stock of First Union, which agreed to pay 0.58 of its shares for each Dominion share, closed yesterday at $37 a share, down $1, making its offer worth $855 million. Dominion's stock rose $3.25 a share, to $19.625.
First Union expects to cut costs at Dominion by about $100 million a year. Although the two companies do not have overlapping branches, First Union expects savings to come from eliminating more than 1,000 jobs and sharing computer systems.
 
Need to Provide More Loans
 BankAmerica did not disclose the total cost of its First Gibraltar acquisition, but told analysts that it paid about $110 million for the 130 branches and their deposits. BankAmerica also bought most of First Gibraltar's loans, including $225 million of commercial loans and $640 million of consumer loans. BankAmerica stock was unchanged yesterday at $47 a share.
"To turn a reasonable profit on its investment, BankAmerica has to revitalize the savings and loan branches to offer more kinds of deposits and to generate more loans," said Lawrence Cohn, an analyst at Paine Webber. Although the purchase gives BankAmerica the second-largest branch system in Texas, "they have virtually no ability to generate loans or other assets," he added.
David Berry, chairman of Bank America's Texas subsidiary, noted that the state's ban on home-equity loans makes it harder for banks to issue new loans. Initially, he said BankAmerica was concentrating on selling checking accounts to customers who have certificates of deposit by offering no-fee checking for a year. He said BankAmerica should be earning a "reasonable" profit in Texas within two years.

GRAPHIC: Map: "Banks on the Move" shows states in which acquiring banks, Bank of America and First Union Corp., already have branches and states in which branches in the planned sale are located (Source: Company reports) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (96%); BAC (LSE) (96%); 8648 (TSE) (96%); WFC (NYSE) (93%); REV (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (66%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (77%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (73%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: BANKAMERICA CORP; FIRST GIBRALTAR BANK; FIRST UNION CORP; DOMINION BANKSHARES CORP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (96%); WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); REVLON INC (66%); SOUTHEAST BANKING CORP (63%); MACANDREWS & FORBES HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKAMERICA CORP; FIRST GIBRALTAR BANK; FIRST UNION CORP; DOMINION BANKSHARES CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (77%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (73%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); TRENDS (90%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MERGERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL RONALD PERELMAN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



696 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: With Office Space Glut, Philadelphia Is Sour on Proposed Federal Building

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Five years ago, when new office buildings seemed to be rising on every downtown corner here, business leaders cheered the Federal Government's proposal to build a huge office tower that would consolidate Federal workers now scattered in different buildings and, in the process, create construction jobs and spruce up a dreary part of town.
But as the local economy has soured, so has the enthusiasm for the project. With a 17.5 percent vacancy rate in the city's downtown office buildings, real estate experts and urban specialists now say that the last thing Philadelphia needs is a new Federal office building. The city and taxpayers would be better served, they say, by Government leasing of some of the surplus space available at deeply discounted prices. 
 "It looks stupid for the Government to build new buildings when you have buildings vacant all over the place," said Claude M. Ballade, a real estate expert and partner with Goldman, Sachs & Company, an investment bank in New York. "Why build when you can buy office buildings all over America for 60 or 70 cents on the dollar?"
 
Adding to Economic Woes
 Nor is Philadelphia's situation unique. The Government is proposing an office building in Atlanta and is building one in New York, two cities also hard hit by the real estate slump. And while the projects would initially create hundreds of construction jobs, the real estate experts say these buildings would house Federal agencies already in those cities, drawing thousands of workers, and rental income, from existing office buildings and adding to the cities' economic woes.
But officials from the General Services Administration, which is building the project in Philadelphia, say there is no available office building in the city that is big enough to accommodate the Government's regional offices for the Departments of Health and Human Services and Housing and Urban Development, among others. The proposed $256 million building, they say, would help streamline the agencies' operations and reduce duplication of things like conference rooms, auditoriums and parking.
With the encouragement of Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, the Senate has approved $37 million to start the project, and a House-Senate conference committee plans to negotiate a final bill on the matter next week. Mr. Specter, who is in a tight race for re-election, has won the endorsement of normally Democratic construction trade and other unions because of his 11-year record in the Senate for bringing projects like this proposed office building to Pennsylvania.
 
Planned in Better Times
 Mr. Specter said in a recent interview that he had talked to President Bush about the project and had begun shepherding it through the Senate only after having been advised of a great need for the new building by Federal office managers and local elected officials, including Mayor Edward G. Rendell of Philadelphia.
"My job is to work on the funding when a decision has been made on the merits," Mr. Specter said.
Some of the Federal projects were planned in better economic climates. For example, in 1988 Congress approved a $517 million Federal complex in the Foley Square of lower Manhattan that includes a 975,000-square-foot office building for Federal agencies like the Internal Revenue Service and the Environmental Protection Agency.
"I cannot see the Government building office space during this time of glut," said John H. K. Belt, president of the Building Owners and Managers Association of New York, the local chapter of a national trade association. The vacancy rate in Manhattan's downtown financial district is 22 percent.
Mr. Belt said there had not been much organized opposition to the new building in Manhattan, largely because it represented a tiny addition to the office market of 350 million square feet of space.
In Atlanta, where the downtown office vacancy rate is 28 percent, the Government is considering a new office tower with 1.9 million square feet of space. Here again, the building's major purpose is to consolidate some Federal agencies in the city under a single roof. But building owners question such a purpose.
"I don't see any reason why they all have to consolidate, especially when it increases their cost of operations," said Stewart M. Huey, executive vice president of the Building Owners and Managers Association of Atlanta.
The Atlanta proposal is expected to move ahead in the approvals process on Tuesday when the House Public Buildings and Grounds Subcommittee is scheduled to vote on the development plan.
In Philadelphia, the proposed 12-story building would be at 30th and Walnut Streets on the west bank of the Schuylkill River, near a 14-acre site owned by the United States Postal Service. With one million square feet of space, the proposed building would represent about 2.5 percent of Philadelphia's current office market of 38 million square feet, a market that has six million square feet of empty office space.
"The commercial real estate market in Philadelphia is in a total free fall," said Jay Lamont, director of the Real Estate Institute at Temple University. "I am appalled that the Government would consider building space at $260 a foot when landlords are offering unheard of concessions and you can own modern footage for $50 a foot. Banks are literally giving buildings away. There is a noxious political odor that is emanating from this project."
Federal officials who manage Government property say they are not aware of any bargains in Philadelphia that meet the Government's needs or space requirements. "If the bargains are there, I haven't seen them yet," said Gordon P. Cordes, the regional administrator in Philadelphia for the General Services Administration.
In 1989 the United States Postal Service, which has the authority to develop its property for profit, announced plans to build a Federal office building on its riverfront property. The General Services Administration agreed to lease the space. Because this was an agreement between two Federal agencies, the Government had no obligation to seek competitive bids for space from building owners, and did not do so, said Wolfgang J. Zoellner, the deputy commissioner of public buildings at the General Services Administration in Washington.
 
Building vs. Buying
 Mr. Zoellner predicted that the Government would save money by building instead of buying or continuing to lease private buildings. But he and Postal Service officials refused to disclose any financial information about the project, until later this month, when the agency is scheduled to give Congress a prospectus on the project.
A General Services Administration memorandum on the building, released recently by the subcommittee, estimates the Postal Service would spend $255.8 million for constructing it. The memo estimates that the General Services Administration would pay "at a minimum" $33.5 million, or $33.50 a square foot, in 1996, the first year of the lease. That rate would gradually increase over 30 years to $46 million, or $46 a square foot.
Commercial real estate brokers in Philadelphia say that space currently rents for $12 to $32 a square foot per year, and that the Government now leases large blocks of renovated space at $15.50.
In Philadelphia, business leaders have mixed feelings on the Federal project, said Charles P. Pizzi, president of the Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce. "Some folks say additional office space isn't needed now, while others see Federal investment in center city as important," he said. The Building Owners and Managers Association of Philadelphia is opposed to the project.
Charles F. Seymour, chairman of Jackson-Cross Company, a commercial real estate brokerage here, said: "Normally, the community would say, 'Great! A new office tower!' Now if they build another tower, it's going to be dumped into a market that is overbuilt and cause everybody to hurt even more than they are now."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Empty Office Space" shows the percentage of vacant office space in central Philadelphia from 1986-Sept. 1992. (Source: Jackson-Cross Co., a commercial real estate brokerage)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILADELPHIA (PA) UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); MAYORS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); INTERVIEWS (66%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY ARLEN SPECTER (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ED RENDELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



697 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Weaker Currencies Fall Again

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Europe's weaker currencies continued to erode in value today in a clear sign that France's narrow approval of the European unification treaty on Sunday has not ended the economic upheaval of the last week.
The French franc, the British pound, the Italian lira and the Spanish peseta all dropped relative to the German mark. 
 Financial markets bet that with the pace and scope of attempts to create a single currency and a unified monetary policy still uncertain, the franc, the lira, the peseta and other currencies might still have to be devalued -- some of them further -- before order can be restored to Europe's economic coordination system.
 
Franc Almost Hits the Floor
 The franc, after rising in value against the German mark in the hours immediately after the French referendum on Sunday night, fell again today, nearly to the lowest level allowed under the exchange-rate agreement. By the end of trading in Europe, the franc stood at 3.4240 to the mark, just slightly above its allowable floor of 3.4305 to the mark. Traders said the French central bank tried to support the currency by purchasing francs and selling marks.
[After the completion of most currency trading in New York on Monday afternoon, the European Community's foreign ministers said at the United Nations headquarters that there was scant chance that the European unity treaty would take effect at the beginning of next year, as they had once hoped. They also acknowledged the need for further measures to quell the widespread disquiet over the treaty throughout Europe.]
Unlike Britain and Italy, France is in good economic condition, with lower inflation and higher economic growth than Germany. "You could argue that France has the best economic fundamentals in Europe, but that won't necessarily stop the speculators from having a go at it," said Ian Harwood, an economist at S. G. Warburg & Company in London.
The ability of the franc to hold up against speculative pressure in coming days will foretell the future of the Exchange Rate Mechanism, said Robin Hubbard, an economist at Paribas Capital Markets, the investment arm of Banque Paribas, the French banking company. The mechanism is the system by which the European Community nations pledged to keep their currency values stable as a precursor to the establishment of a single currency,
"It's a matter of whether the markets pluck up the courage to take on the franc," Mr. Hubbard said. "It will be a game of cat and mouse. But I don't think the markets will take it on, and if they do, they will probably run into a coordinated response, with France raising interest rates and the Germans perhaps willing to cut rates."
Traders are also watching the lira closely. Italy had said last week that it wanted to rejoin the Exchange Rate Mechanism on Tuesday, but was forced to back off today and acknowledge that a return was not imminent. Traders and economists said the weakening of the currency against the mark today suggested that Italy would not be able to rejoin any time soon without accepting a further devaluation of the lira, which had already been devalued by 7 percent last week.
The lira closed in Europe at 846 to the mark, down from 836.1 at the close on Friday.
 
Pound Falls Further
 With British officials signaling that they would cut interest rates to stimulate the domestic economy rather than try to bring the pound back into the monetary system soon, sterling continued its long slide in value. The pound closed in European trading at 2.5390 marks, down from 2.5579 in trading on Sunday night and 2.61 on Friday.
The Irish punt, the Spanish peseta and the Portuguese escudo also remained in danger of falling below their minimum values in the exchange rate system, traders said.
Trading in foreign currencies was considerably less frantic today than last week. But traders said there continued to be buying and selling based on the same strains that led Britain and Italy to withdraw from the European monetary system last week: Germany's policy of keeping its interest rates higher than its European neighbors want, and the resulting flow of speculative and investment funds out of weak currencies and into the German mark.
"The tensions have not completely gone out of the markets," Mr. Hubbard of Paribas said "They're not as intense as they had been, but clearly the speculators continue to feel that there is a problem with German interest rates and therefore some vulnerability on the part of the authorities in trying to defend the weaker currencies."
European officials have been hoping to avoid a broad-based devaluation of the currencies within the Exchange Rate Mechanism. Devaluations, in addition to undermining the credibility of a stable exchange-rate system, tend to lead to inflation by increasing the cost of imports. They also tend to force up interest rates in the long run because investors, fearing that a nation that has devalued once will be willing to do it again, require a higher rate of return to offset the additional risk of putting their funds into that country.
Britain and Italy last week pulled out of the European monetary system, at least for the time being, effectively allowing their currencies to be devalued. They pulled out after being unable to defend the values of their currencies against intense selling pressure from speculators, despite raising interest rates sharply and spending billions of dollars worth of reserves to buy pounds and lire.
It is the same type of speculation that is now buffeting the franc, the lira, the peseta and the Irish punt.
 

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "A Rough Spell in Europe's Market" shows performance of principal stock market indexes and currency rates (against U.S. dollar) in Britain, France, Germany, Italy and United States, Sept. 1-21 (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: S G WARBURG & CO LTD (64%); BANQUE PARIBAS (52%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; SPAIN; ITALY EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EUROPEAN MONETARY SYSTEM; TREATIES CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INFLATION (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); BRITISH POUND (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); REFERENDUMS (54%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W ROBIN HUBBARD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



698 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: DECISION FOR EUROPE;
U.S. Also Guilty In Money Crisis, Europeans Say

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
After a week of hearing American officials complain about high German interest rates, European officials struck back today, saying the weak dollar and low American rates also contributed heavily to the crisis in world currency markets.
"Interest rates in Germany are too high, and U.S. rates are too low," said Spain's Finance Minister, Carlos Solchaga. Mr. Solchaga made his assertion that the Federal Reserve should raise interest rates at a news conference this morning in his capacity as chairman of the chief policy-making committee of the International Monetary Fund. 
 Bush Administration officials, who have for much of this year pressed the Fed to lower rates to help end the stubborn United States economic slowdown, were clearly irritated.
 
U.S. Blames German Rates
 "We obviously don't think our rates being too low are the problem," said a Treasury official. "We obviously think that Germany needs to lower theirs." Administration officials assert that Germany's high rates slow borrowing and lending and hurt economic recovery not only in Europe but also throughout the world.
The wide gap between the Federal Reserve's 3 percent short-term rates and the German central bank's rates of 9 percent or more means that many investors have shunned low-yield American investments in favor of high-yield German ones. This has made the German mark so strong that last week Britain, Italy and Spain had to devalue their currencies, at great embarrassment to their Governments.
Even as the Europeans lobby for higher rates, many economists predict that because the American economy remains in such bad shape, the Federal Reserve will cut rates yet again over the next few weeks to help end the slump. That could weaken the dollar, strengthen the mark and, European officials fear, serve as a spark thrown into Europe's currency tinderbox.
The European officials, in Washington for the joint annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, spent much of the day after France's narrow vote in favor of further steps toward European unity trying to reassure Europe's nervous currency markets.
"The general view is that we're now over the worst," said Henning Christophersen, the European Community's Commissioner for Economic Affairs. "I think after two or three days we will see the markets begin to work in a more orderly fashion."
The Europeans also showed little sympathy for the suggestion President Bush made Sunday to tie world currency rates to a basket of commodities, including gold, that would help governments detect inflationary pressures and adjust their policies.
 
Action in Currency Markets
 Currency traders said the central banks of France, Ireland and Germany intervened in the foreign exchange markets today, buying and selling currencies to keep the French franc and the Irish punt from falling below their official floor in the European monetary system, an 11-nation system of linked exchange rates. The franc and the punt were weak today in foreign exchange markets but did not face huge attacks the way British, Italian and Spanish currencies did last week.
Asserting that the pressures the French franc faced today were nothing out of the ordinary, Finance Minister Michel Sapin of France said, "Business is normal on the markets today."
The open criticism of America's low interest rates was in sharp constrast to the exchanges at Saturday's meeting of the finance ministers of the Group of Seven industrial nations, which includes the United States. Ministers then said they understood America's need for faster growth. At such meetings, the ministers do not try to anger the others.
But Europeans who do not belong to the Group of Seven did not feel similarly inhibited. "The weakness of the dollar was at the origin of Europe's currency crisis," said Philippe Maystadt, Belgium's Finance Minister.
Spain's Mr. Solchaga, whose country's currency was swept up and badly battered in the financial markets' turmoil last week, complained that other industrial nations were trapped "between the benign neglect of American monetary authorities" regarding the weak dollar and "the monetarist doctrines of the Bundesbank," Germany's central bank. The Bundesbank has used extremely high interest rates to squeeze down inflation, and this has forced Germany's partners to jack up their rates to keep their currencies from sliding against the German mark.
 
Denial That Dollar Is the Culprit
 Treasury Under Secretary David C. Mulford has repeatedly bristled at suggestions that Washington blithely let the dollar slide to record lows last month without worrying about its effects on other countries.
"We've felt that the dollar is competitive at its present levels," he said. "And as you know, we have not sought to depreciate the dollar, nor have we followed a policy of benign neglect."
Denying that the dollar is the culprit, American officials assert that Germany's high interest rates have caused the dollar's weakness and Europe's currency tensions.
Michel Camdessus, the International Monetary Fund's managing director, who said last week that the Fed should not lower rates further, threw his lot in with Washington's critics today, saying that once a recovery gathered steam the Federal Reserve should be "prompt to accompany the recovery with moderate and progressive increases of interest rates."
In light of the sharp policy differences between Germany and the United States, the monetary fund's key policy-making unit, the Interim Committee, said in its communique today: "The recent currency turmoil forcefully illustrates the importance of reinforced policy coordination."
Administration officials said the President's suggestion to link a basket of commodities was not a return to the gold standard, under which the value of the dollar was tied to the price of gold. They said that the proposal would help industrial nations assess whether their currencies were properly valued against a basket of commodities, which might include wheat and oil in addition to gold. When a country's inflation rate was less than the price increases for the basket, the country would have leeway to ease its monetary policy to spur growth.
Some officials criticized the plan as clumsy or unclear. "There are many disadvantages to such a currency construction,' said Helmut Schlesinger, president of the Bundesbank.
Mr. Sapin, France's Finance Minister, did not seem to take the proposal seriously, saying, "It isn't exactly new."
James A. Baker 3d, the White House chief of staff, made the same proposal in September 1987 when he was Treasury Secretary, but it did not get anywhere.
Mr. Camdessus of the I.M.F., who is eager to study new proposals to stabilize the world's monetary system, had kind words for the President's proposal. He said it "is timely and can play a useful role along with other economic indicators in assessing the stances of economic policies that underlie exchange market development."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The blame for Europe's economic woes was broadened yesterday in Washington by Carlos Solchaga, right, Spain's Finance Minister. "Interest rates in Germany are too high, and U.S. rates are too low," he said. At left was Michel Camdessus, managing director of the I.M.F. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); IRELAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (71%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; UNITED STATES; SPAIN EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); IRELAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INFLATION (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); LOBBYING (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; SOLCHAGA, CARLOS (MIN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



699 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Many Risky Bargains in European Stocks

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:
Like one-bedroom condos in Manhattan, European stocks can be had at bargain prices. But buyers should question some of the bargains unless they are planning to stick around a long time, analysts say.
France's half-hearted approval Sunday of the European unity treaty hardly lessened the risk that declining currencies will leave American investors with losses even if European stocks themselves rise. And with Britain stuck in a recession, France barely growing and Germany slowing down, higher stock prices are no sure bet. 
 Those Americans with the patience and steady nerves to test the European markets should choose their countries, stocks and mutual funds as carefully as they might shop for an Italian sports car or French couture.
Many strategists recommend stocks likely to benefit from lower interest rates and a stronger dollar: banks, for example, and companies with substantial American operations or exports. Mutual fund buyers might consider those funds that hedge some of their currency risk.
The temptation of European stocks comes from their moderate prices. Japanese stocks still trade for nearly 40 times earnings and American stocks nearly 25. In Europe, a franc, pound or mark of annual earnings can be bought for a multiple of just 10 to 16. European cash flow and book value also come relatively cheap.
What is more, European interest rates have plenty of room to fall from short-term levels now about six percentage points higher than in the United States. Germany's Bundesbank might hesitate every step of the way, but as Thomas R. Robinson, the chief international strategist at Merrill Lynch, put it, "Over all, the direction of interest rates is down."
But lower European interest rates, while making European currencies less attractive, would also increase the value of the dollar. Add the risk of sudden currency devaluations -- most recently, the lira and the pound -- and even strong gains in European stocks could vanish when translated into dollars.
European stocks rose smartly last week; the British market, Europe's largest, gained about 8 percent. But only four of 19 European stock funds tracked by Morningstar Inc. reported gains.
John R. Hickling, manager of Fidelity's International Growth and Income Fund, with assets of $70 million, said that investors should approach Europe "with caution and at their own peril." With 35 to 40 percent of his money in Europe, Mr. Hickling's fund finished last week off just 10 cents a share, to $13.99. But the fund lost another 6 cents a share yesterday.
Mr. Hickling sometimes wishes company policy allowed him to hedge his currency risks. "There are some times it's pretty obvious the dollar is going to go up," he said.
To protect himself, Mr. Hickling favors the stocks of companies that would benefit from a stronger dollar. Several British companies -- Glaxo, Cadbury Schweppes, Smithkline Beecham, Grand Metropolitan -- have extensive operations in the United States, he noted.
Since oil is priced in dollars, Mr. Hickling is also looking at European oil companies. He is buying Royal Dutch/Shell for its strong balance sheet and dividend prospects.
Mr. Hickling sees banking stocks as the best way to take advantage of declining European interest rates. "The U.S. lesson has not been lost on us," he said, referring to the fall in American rates. "There's no reason why interest rates in Europe can't do what interest rates have done in the U.S. over the last two years." He lists ABN Amro of the Netherlands and Union Bank of Switzerland as being among the likely beneficiaries.
Picking the right countries might also shield against currency risk. David C. Roche, Morgan Stanley's global strategist, leans toward the so-called core countries, including Germany, the Netherlands and France, that appear to have the greatest commitment to maintaining the value of their currencies.
Yesterday, however, he saw speculators turn their attack to the French franc, "like a bunch of wolves starting to attack a group of trappers crossing the snow." He recommended that clients reduce their European stock holdings by about 17 percent and shift that money to the United States.
But when it comes to recommending countries, unanimity among analysts and money managers is fracturing as quickly as the European Monetary System.
France has many friends: Mr. Robinson of Merrill Lynch boasts of its low price/earnings ratios and inflation lower than Germany's. But others, pointing to a French Government weakened by the close vote on Sunday, prefer to buy British, saying that declining interest rates will pull Britain out of recession. French stocks fell more than 3 percent yesterday, while British stocks fell only a quarter point.
For individuals, however, betting on a single country often requires buying a closed-end mutual fund that sells for less than the value of the stocks it contains.
Considering the currency risks, Nancy R. Lazar, an economist at International Strategy and Investment, a consulting firm, sees little reason for investors to look abroad. "We are closer to a pickup in our economy than they are in Europe," she said. "They should stay home."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "European Bargains" price/earnings ratio of selected stocks in Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the Unites States, Jan. 1 vs. Sept. 18, 1992 (Source: Datastream) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (63%); GSK (NYSE) (50%); GSK (LSE) (50%); BIOC (EGX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORNINGSTAR INC (63%); CADBURY LTD (50%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); RECESSION (76%); DEVALUATION (76%); BONDS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); SPORTS CARS (54%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R JOHN R HICKLING (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



700 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: DECISION FOR EUROPE;
Russia Balking at Liability for the Entire Former Soviet Debt

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
The issue of how and when the former Soviet Union's $70 billion foreign debt will be repaid became further tangled today as Russian officials said their Government was not willing to be liable for the entire debt.
Roughly half the debt is owed to Germany and a German Government official expressed surprise and dismay this evening, saying he thought the question had been settled. "It seems to me as if the Russian side was raising additional issues," he said. 
 Roughly $19 billion in interest and principal payments will fall due next year on the former Soviet Union's debt, and no one can agree on who should pay. The question has become an obstacle to further aid to the former Soviet republics, as Western officials try to figure out how much of their assistance should be used for debt repayment and how much to help the republics' economies.
 
Repayments Postponed
 The Group of Seven industrial democracies agreed on Oct. 28, 1991, when the Soviet Union was heading toward a breakup, to postpone some interest and principal repayments this year in exchange for pledges from each of the republics to accept full responsibility for the debt.
All 12 of the remaining Soviet republics then signed a tentative agreement to make payments on the Soviet debt in rough proportion to the sizes of their economies. But under the principle of "joint and several" responsibility, they also agreed that if five republics stopped making payments, for example, then the remaining seven republics would be liable for their payments also. And if all but one republic dropped out, the remaining republic would be liable for the entire debt.
But the final agreement on debt repayment, signed a month later, included only eight republics, and in practice every republic except Russia has stopped making payments. Russia is unhappy now about being held liable for the entire debt. German officials are trying to maintain the principle of "joint and several" responsibility in the formal rescheduling now being negotiated, but Russian officials want to water it down and American officials are backing them.
Aleksei V. Mozhin, a top Russian debt negotiator who is here in Washington for the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, told reporters today that Russia was still trying to persuade the other republics to start contributing to the debt payments. Meanwhile, he said, no agreement has been reached on whether Russia will assume responsibility for all of the Soviet debt or whether it will be liable for only 61 percent, under the formula approved by the 12 republics.
Mr. Mozhin said, and an American official confirmed, that Russia and the United States did not want Russia to take full responsibility, but that other countries opposed such a solution.
As a result, Mr. Mozhin said at a news conference today at the World Bank, detailed negotiations of the amounts to be postponed have not begun.
Petr O. Aven, Russia's minister for foreign economic relations, repeated recent Russian assertions that it could only afford to pay $2.5 billion next year in interest and principal.
But the German Government official said that the $2.5 billion figure had not been accepted by Russia's creditors. "This has been a figure that has been given to us without much economic reasoning," he said.
German officials also want any postponement to be much shorter than American officials want.
The German official said that Mr. Aven had told officials from creditor governments last week that Russia was willing to manage the repayment of all of the former Soviet Union's debts provided that the other republics also allowed Russia to manage all of the former Soviet Union's assets. Germany assumed that Russia was also prepared to be liable for the entire debt if it were managing it, the German official said.
But Mr. Mozhin said Russia was not willing to accept full liability and that American officials had supported this position.
Ukraine and other republics have criticized Russia's takeover of many assets that used to belong to the Soviet Union, such as overseas embassies.
The Russian economy is already stumbling, and many factories have closed because of a lack of foreign exchange for imports. A staff official of the International Monetary Fund estimated on Sunday that Russia's net debt payments, purchases of imports and outflows of investment money would exceed export revenues and foreign investment by $18 billion this year and another $18 billion next year. Closing this gap has been a crucial objective of Western assistance.
This year the gap is being closed with $2 billion from international organizations like the International Monetary Fund, $6 billion in assistance from individual foreign governments, and $10 billion from the postponement of principal and interest repayments. Western officials also plan separately to set up a $6 billion fund to stabilize the value of the ruble.
American officials include this fund in their calculations that assistance totals $24 billion. Russian officials sometimes say that assistance only totals $1 billion because they only count grants and do not include loans that must eventually be repaid.
The big issue in aid to the former republics now lies in how much of next year's shortfall will be covered by the postponement of interest and principal payments and how much will be covered by foreign governments and international institutions. Because roughly half of the debt is owed to Germany, German officials want the postponed portion to be as small as possible.
At their summit meeting in Munich in July, the Group of Seven said that they would help Russia cope with the debt. The German Government officials said today that Germany stood by that commitment, but that with so much money involved, "It's true that we are particularly wary, careful and diligent to the entire matter."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; FOREIGN AID PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH ALEKSEI V MOZHIN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



701 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: THE U.N. ASSEMBLY;
Excerpts From Address By President to the U.N.

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a speech by President Bush before the General Assembly today: 
 Across the globe we all looked forward to a future free of war, a world where we might raise our children in peace and freedom. And this institution, the United Nations, born amidst the ashes of war, embodied those hopes and dreams like no other.
But the hopes and dreams of 1945 remained unfulfilled. Communist imperialism divided the world in two. Our hopes for peace and our dreams for freedom were frozen in the grip of cold war. . . .
And instead of uniting the nations, this body became a forum for distrust and division among nations. And in a cruel irony, the United Nations, created to free the world of conflict, became itself conflict's captive.
And now, 47 years later, we stand at the end of another war, the cold war, and our hopes and dreams have awakened again. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
'Three Critical Challenges'
 [T]he community of nations and the United Nations face three critical, interrelated challenges as we enter the 21st century.
First, we face the political challenge of keeping today's peace and preventing tomorrow's wars. As we see daily in Bosnia and Somalia and Cambodia, everywhere conflict claims innocent lives, the need for enhanced peacekeeping capabilities has never been greater, the conflicts we must deal with more intractable, the costs of conflict higher.
And second, we face the strategic challenge of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, truly the fastest-growing security challenge. . . .
And third, we face the common economic challenge of promoting prosperity for all, of strengthening an open growth-oriented free-market international economic order, while safeguarding the environment. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
'To Prevent Conflict'
 Let me begin with peacekeeping. . . . Peacekeepers are stretched to the limit, while demands for their services increase by the day. The need for monitoring and preventive peacekeeping, putting people on the ground before the fighting starts, may become especially critical in volatile regions.
This is especially the case because of the rapid and turbulent change that continues to shake Eastern Europe and Eurasia. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	I welcome the Secretary-General's call for a new agenda to strengthen the United Nations ability to prevent, contain and resolve conflict across the globe. And today, I call upon all members to join me in taking bold steps to advance that agenda. I therefore will be discussing with my colleagues the merits of a special meeting of the United Nations Security Council to discuss the Secretary General's proposals, and to develop concrete responses in five key areas.
One, robust peacekeeping requires men and equipment that only member states can provide. . . . Two, if multinational units are to work together, they must train together. . . . And three, we also need to provide adequate logistical support for peacekeeping and humanitarian operations. . . . And four, we will need to develop planning, crisis management and intelligence capabilities for peacekeeping and humanitarian operations. And five, we must ensure adequate, equitable financing for United Nations and associated peacekeeping efforts. . . .
 
'We Will Emphasize Training'
 I have directed the United States Secretary of Defense to place a new emphasis on peacekeeping. Because of peacekeeping's growing importance as a mission for the United States military, we will emphasize training of combat, engineering and logistical units for the full range of peacekeeping and humanitarian activities. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	I have further directed the establishment of a permanent peacekeeping curriculum in United States military schools. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
'To Refocus' Arms Monitoring

 I want to announce my intention today to work with the United States Congress to redirect the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency . . . to refocus its talents on providing technical support for nonproliferation, weapons monitoring and destruction, and global defense conversion. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
'Overhaul' of Foreign Aid
 Since World War II, foreign assistance often served as a weapon in the cold war. . . . But foreign aid, as we've known it, needs to be transformed.

 	 	 		. . .	 	[W]orking with our Congress, I will propose a top-to-bottom overhaul of our institutions that plan and administer foreign assistance, drastically reducing the bureaucracy, . . . streamlining our delivery systems and strengthening support for private-sector development and economic reform.
The Agency for International Development, A.I.D., another institution born during the cold war, needs to be fundamentally and radically overhauled. Promoting economic security, opportunity and competitiveness will become a primary mission of the State Department.
Our assistance efforts should not be charity. On the contrary, they should promote mutual prosperity. Therefore, using existing foreign affairs resources, I will propose creating a $1 billion growth fund. The fund will provide grants and credits to support United States businesses in providing expertise, goods and services desperately needed in countries undertaking economic restructuring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



702 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Media;
More News Also Good News For Bush: He Surges on TV

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT

 BODY:
George Bush's stock may still be low in the polls. But in the secondary market of television, it is more than holding its own.
For the last few weeks, President Bush has succeeded in dominating the news with far more regularity than his opponent, Gov. Bill Clinton. Since the Republican convention, not only has the President received substantially more television coverage than the Arkansas Governor, but the tone of his coverage has improved, while the tone of Mr. Clinton's has declined.
 
Source of Consolation
 Analysts attribute Mr. Bush's new air strength to a more aggressive campaign that has put the power of incumbency to good use -- one week producing hurricane aid for Florida, the next saving military jobs in Texas. At the same time, though, they say, Mr. Clinton has helped the President to command the cameras by adopting a play-it-safe media strategy. 
 "The President has become much more active and takes a lot more air time," said Marvin Kalb, director of the Shorenstein Barone Center on Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard University. "There's nothing Clinton can do about that. But Clinton is leading, and as the candidate who has managed to maintain a 10-point differential in the polls, it may not be to his advantage to be too adventurous in the way he puts himself forward."
The emergence of a "coverage gap" between Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton is one of the few legacies of the Republican convention from which the President's team can take real consolation.
According to the Center for Media and Public Affairs in Washington, between the California primary on June 2 and the start of the Republican convention Aug. 17 -- a period that included the Democratic convention in July -- Mr. Clinton held the lead in coverage on the network news shows: 454 minutes versus 400 minutes for the President.
During the Republican convention, Mr. Bush, not surprisingly, surged ahead, and since then he has maintained a comfortable advantage. Figures from the center show that in the weeks between the end of the convention and Labor Day, the President received 131 minutes of network news coverage to Mr. Clinton's 84. For Mr. Bush, this translated into an average of 2.6 minutes a night on each network, for Mr. Clinton an average of 1.6 minutes.
"Clinton's coverage per night has dropped since mid-August," Robert Lichter, co-director of the center, said. "He has not really recovered since the Republican convention."
After having been accused for weeks of favoring Mr. Clinton, news executives do not seem concerned about the recent upturn in Mr. Bush's coverage. "It seems like sort of the normal course of things," one network executive said.
The tactics the Bush campaign has used to dominate the news have been well tested by incumbents over the years: dispensing Federal goodies, attacking the challenger's fitness for higher office and making "major" Presidential addresses. These tactics do not seem to have lost their usefulness despite frequent repetition.
Twelve days ago, for example, when Mr. Bush gave an economic speech in Detroit, his address led the newscasts even though it contained little that was actually new. And last week, even the possibility that the President would attack Mr. Clinton before the National Guard Association -- he did not, in fact, do so -- was enough to prompt the networks to devote the top of their newscasts to a discussion of the Governor's draft record.
To be sure, at a time when so much of the news about the candidates is negative, getting too much attention, like getting too much sun, can produce unflattering results. The President's announcement earlier this month that he would save jobs in Texas by selling fighter jets to Taiwan, for instance, attracted widespread coverage, much of it unfavorable.
"It is a sign of the political trouble the President is in that he is adjusting foreign policy to help himself in Texas, his home state," ABC's Brit Hume said.
For the President, though, the tone of the television coverage, while often negative, has at least been improving. For Mr. Clinton, it has been getting worse.
August, according to the Center for Media and Public Affairs, marked the first month of the campaign in which people interviewed on the network news -- both average citizens and professional politicians -- gave Mr. Clinton a smaller proportion of positive reviews than they gave Mr. Bush. During that month, only 32 percent of those interviewed made favorable comments about Mr. Clinton, while 43 percent made positive remarks about the President, at least as the center interpreted those remarks. While such interpretations are partly subjective, there are a number of key words and phrases that are classified by the center as either positive or negative.
On several occasions, the President has been able to deprive Mr. Clinton of potentially favorable coverage simply by declining to participate himself. One such occasion came last night, when the Public Broadcasting Service televised an election special on minority voters; remarks by Mr. Clinton were eliminated from the broadcast because the President would not address the program. Similarly, when the President refused to participate in the debate scheduled for tonight, he insured that Mr. Clinton, too, would not be appearing.
 
Victim of Own Caution?
 The Clinton campaign has expressed some unhappiness about the fall-off in its coverage; last week, for example, campaign officials complained bitterly when an an endorsement of the Governor by chief executives in California went virtually unnoticed. But in addition to fighting a President in full campaign mode, the Clinton campaign, it seems, is also losing coverage to its own deliberately cautious strategy.
Over the last month, Mr. Clinton has consistently hewn to his by-now-familiar economic message, abandoning it only long enough to accept some endorsements or answer questions about the draft. Such consistency, while perhaps advisable for a man who is leading in the polls, does not often produce what could be called news.
"He has not been saying anything interesting, so there's been little to cover," Andrew Tyndall, publisher of a weekly newsletter on television and the election, said of Mr. Clinton. "It looks as if he's sitting on his lead."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; TELEVISION; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HURRICANES (69%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



703 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
In Their Own Words

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

 BODY:

PRESIDENT BUSH
In an interview yesterday the the radio personality Rush Limbaugh in New York City.
"You asked me why people are upset. The deficits have been big under me. Why? Because we paid in this savings and loan mess for excesses. People -- private businesses did too much. They went out and loaned money that they shouldn't have loaned. And the taxpayer ends up getting burned, except I vowed we must protect every single depositor, and we've done that. Not a bailout from some institution. Protect the depositor. 
 We've protected him, but that adds to the deficit. So I have to bear some responsibility for that. I keep blaming Congress for certain things while accepting blame myself, because Congress has frustrated my economic growth program that I put before the American people in January. They didn't want to see the economy get better because they knew very well the politics worked against them. "
 
GOV. BILL CLINTON
At a news conference yesterday in Chicago.
"Keep in mind that most Americans according to the census are working harder today than they were 20 years ago for incomes, which, adjusted for inflation, are lower than they were 10 years ago. That is in spite of the fact of dramatic increases in productivity by some of the companies represented here and many companies in this country.
Why is that? It's because we have stubbornly refused to develop the kind of partnership for growth and opportunity in this country that the global economy requires, a partnership which will require us, in my judgment, to adopt an across-the-board investment tax credit for new plant and equipment so that we can continually have incentives to reinvest and modernize our plants here and our small businesses; a partnership that requires, in my judgment, the infusion of new amounts of venture capital into new ventures and therefore we ought to have a long-term capital gains treatment for investment in new ventures in America; a partnership that requires a comprehensive and permanent research and development tax credit and significant housing incentives to revitalize the construction industry in this country; and more importantly, a partnership that requires us to make a comprehensive long-term commitment to the education and training of all of our people and to creating a climate in this country that supports the development of new technologies, supports the revitalization of our manufacturing sector, supports and strengthens our effort to promote small business. "

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (68%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (73%); BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



704 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
New York City to Sell 'Mini Bonds'

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
New York City is going to the little guy again. It announced yesterday its second offering of "mini bonds" meant for small investors.
The bonds, which will be sold in October, have face values of just $5,000. The first sale in February was very successful, with the city eventually selling $100 million worth, twice what it had planned to offer. This October's goal is $75 million, but that could rise. 
 In the Treasury market yesterday, prices fell across the board, except for the 10-year note, which was in such strong demand that traders said a "squeeze" was in play. A squeeze occurs when demand far outstrips supply, forcing some investors to pay high premiums for the securities they want.
The Treasury sold $10.3 billion in three-month bills yesterday at an average discount rate of 2.91 percent, up from 2.89 percent last week, and $10.3 billion in six-month bills at an average discount rate of 2.93 percent, up from 2.90 percent last week.
The downward pressure on the market was coming from the normal selling ahead of a Treasury auction -- the two-year note today -- and the uncertainty surrounding the first use of a new Treasury auction procedure in the sale today.
 
Advertising Planned
 To encourage the sale of the mini bonds, the city is planning to spend around a half of million dollars on advertising. There is also an "800" telephone number investors can use to ask questions about the sale and even indicate interest in buying bonds. If they do, investors will receive information in the mail and will be able to complete the purchase when the bonds are priced and sold during the week of Oct. 19. The number is 800-874-3645.
 
Regular City Sale
 The sale of the mini bonds is part of the city's regular quarterly trip to the bond market to raise funds. The city intends to sell about $1 billion of various types of securities with a broad range of maturities, according to Darcy Bradbury, the Deputy City Comptroller for Finance. The sale will include both tax-exempt and taxable bonds, and the variable-rate bonds that are the basis of New York City tax-exempt money market funds.
The mini bonds are zero-coupon bonds, which pay no regular interest but are sold at a deep discount to their face value. The discount is based on the earnings from the assumed interest rate over the term of the bond. When the bond matures, the investor reaps the gains from the interest by being paid the face value of the bond.
Mini bond maturities will range from 5 to 20 years. A 10-year bond, for example, based on current market interest rates, would have a rate of around 5.95 percent. This means the price of a $5,000 bond would be $2,794, with the full $5,000 paid to the investor in October 2002.
 
Not for All Investors
 Ms. Bradury of the comptroller's office said that mini bonds were not for everyone. She said retirees, for example, who need current income, would probably find more suitable investments elsewhere, as would investors with few other assets. Such investors might have to cash in mini bonds before maturity, she said, and face possible losses because mini's are volatile and can be difficult to sell quickly at a good price.
According to a poll done by the comptroller's office of those who bought the city's first issue of mini bonds in February, 62 percent said they bought the bonds to pay future education costs or for their retirement funds.
 
Municipal Prices Off
 In the municipal bond market yesterday, prices were off from 1/8 to 1/4 point. Stephen C. Leslie, a senior vice president at M. R. Beal & Company in New York, said that the market was being weighed down by the large amount of municipal offerings scheduled for this week.
He said that just the top 10 issuers this week could sell up $5.5 billion in new securities. But he said that the soft condition of the market might make some of the issues delay their sales, which happened last week.
 
Treasury Market
 In secondary market trading, the 7.25 percent 30-year Treasury bond was down 9/32 to 98 26/32 to yield 7.34 percent, up from 7.32 percent on Friday.
In the preauction or when-issued market, yields rose sharply on both the two-year and five year notes. The yield on the five-year note, which will be auctioned tomorrow, jumped sharply, to 5.46 percent, and the yield on the two-year note was up to 3.93 percent.
But the 10-year note finished up 1/32, to yield 6.40 percent. Traders said the note was in great demand, in part because many dealers have used it to hedge against their exposures in the corporate, mortgage and municipal markets.
One measure of the demand for the 10-year note was the cost of borrowing the securities. This cost is measured by how little in interest a dealer can earn on the cash given in exchange for borrowing the securities. The closer this figure is to zero, the more demand there is and the bigger the squeeze, or cost, for investors or dealers who need the security. Yesterday, this interest rate fell to four-tenths of 1 percent.
 
New Auction System
 There were several forces pushing down the prices of other notes and bonds. One was today's trial run of a new Treasury auction system being tested over the next year. Currently, the securities in an auction are awarded at a variety of prices, depending on the range of bids. In the test, all the securities will be awarded at one price, the lowest of the accepted bids.
The purpose is to get dealers to make more aggressive bids because they know that they will get the lowest price in the end. In the current system, one dealer may pay more than another.
The uncertainty surrounding the exact working of the new system is making dealers more cautious, traders said.
In addition, dealers yesterday may have been trying to push the price of the two- and the five-year notes down to raise the yield and win what they call a concession in the auction. This means they can buy the notes cheaper and have a better chance for a profit later.
The very narrow yes vote in France Sunday on the referendum on European unity may also have had an impact. It meant that it is less likely that interest rates there will be cut soon, which means United States rates will not fall as fast as they have been.
Following are the results of yesterday's sale of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.264	98.519	Discounted Rate	2.91%	2.93%	Coupon Yield	2.97%	3.01%	High Price	99.267	98.534	Discounted Rate	2.90%	2.90%	Coupon Yield	2.96%	2.98%	Low Price	99.262	98.519	Discounted Rate	2.92%	2.93%	Coupon Yield	2.98%	3.01%	Accepted at low price	13%	50%	Total applied for	$41,294,820	$33,109,290	Accepted	$10,246,410	$10,268,080	N.Y. applied for	$36,746,420	$29,962,365	N.Y. accepted	$8,784,620	$9,225,755	Noncompetitive	$1,247,310	$1,042,410	 Both these issues are dated September 24, 1992. The three- month bills mature December 24, 1992 and the six- month bills, March 25, 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%); TAX LAW (65%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



705 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Board in California Approves Scholarship Fund for Whites

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif., Sept. 21

 BODY:
The governing body of the University of California has unanimously accepted a bequest from a school teacher that will provide scholarships for poor whites only.
The donation, estimated at $513,842, comes from the estate of Marguerite E. Hornbeck, an alumna of the University of California at Berkeley who never forgot her impoverished childhood. 
 When she died at the age of 87 in March 1990, Ms. Hornbeck left the university property in Hawaii and San Francisco, as well as miscellaneous belongings, but attached the stipulation that all proceeds from her estate "be used to finance a university scholarship there for very poor American Caucasian" students. Ms. Hornbeck, who was white, alluded to the hardships she endured while growing up but did not say why she chose to help only white students.
Robert Sanders, a spokesman for the University of California at Berkeley, said that the 10-campus University of California system has several scholarships for students of specific national, racial and even geographic origins, but he added that this would be the first limited to Caucasians.
 
'Person Was Well-Intentioned'
 University policy allows donors to establish scholarships for students on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion or sex as long as enough unrestricted funds are available to provide equivalent support for other students.
Jeremiah Hallisey is one of the University of California's 18 regents, and he voted with the board on Friday to accept Ms. Hornbeck's gift. "I had a question about it, but it was couched in terms of poor Caucasian students, and I don't think the donative intent was other than what it said," he said. "I think the person was well-intentioned."
Nonetheless, the restrictions included in the scholarship have led some people in the university community to voice concern.
"One reason this issue is so politically and economically charged is that it is taking place in a context of declining financial aid and rising college costs," said Jerome Karabel, an associate professor of sociology at Berkeley who wrote a report that set the university's admissions policy.
 
Recounting Hardships
 Two years before she died, Ms. Hornbeck wrote the university's Office of Trusts and Bequests and told of her intention to establish the fellowship.
She also provided a short autobiography in which she said that her father had died when she was a young girl, forcing her to work six days a week as a telephone operator, for which she earned $15 dollars. She wrote that her mother and her sister, Jonette Distensa Ensign, also had to work. The scholarship financed by the bequest is to be named the Ensign-Hornbeck scholarship for the donor and her sister.
"My early life has made me very concerned about the very very poor American Caucasian students who are struggling to get a university education," Ms. Hornbeck wrote.
After graduating from Berkeley, she worked as public school teacher in San Francisco, saving and investing in real estate. At the time she wrote to the Office of Trusts and Bequests in March 1989 she explained that she had outlived all immediate family members and so could not donate the money immediately.
"I have no one to lean on financially if I get a long-term illness," she wrote, adding that she did not expect to suffer such an infirmity because her only complaint was a minor one: "old-age arthritis."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (73%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); 

PERSON: HORNBECK, MARGUERITE E (D 1990) MARGUERITE E HORNBECK (94%); JONETTE DISTENSA ENSIGN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



706 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Status Quo in Haiti Slips Into Mere Stagnation

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Sept. 18

 BODY:
When 18 international human-rights observers began arriving here this month, many Haitians welcomed what they hoped would be the mission's calming effect after the year of fear and violence that followed the overthrow of the elected President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
But with the deployment of the team from the Organization of American States, few in Haiti, be they the President's supporters or his bitter foes, expressed faith that diplomacy alone could bring a return to democracy. 
 For Father Aristide's enemies, bolstered by their successes in surviving an embargo declared 11 months ago, the mission was seen as a small concession to the outside world, one they hoped would soon return Haiti's international relations to normal. Failing that, many said, they are prepared to continue defying pressures for the deposed President's return.
"Nothing much is going to change, because we will just keep hanging in there, whatever it takes," said a businessman who, like many among a small moneyed class, is violently opposed to the President's return.
Conceived months ago as a mission of 500 people or more who would help prepare the President's return by deterring violence and reinforcing the justice system, the deployment has been limited to 18 people by the country's military-backed Government.
"This is truly negligible," said Rene Theodore, the leader of Haiti's small Communist Party, who has been selected by Father Aristide as a compromise choice for Prime Minister.
Diplomats associated with the mediation effort are split: Some express skepticism that Haiti's military leadership and the civilian Government it installed can be brought to seriously negotiate Father Aristide's return; others, while acknowledging long odds, still hold out hope.
"I think that eventually they will consider the President's return and that Aristide will again be back in the picture," said one diplomat.
Other diplomats said that with responsibility for hundreds of deaths on their hands, and the deposed President's insistence that they be punished, no amount of talking is likely to make Haiti's army leaders resign. Moreover, they said, many in the army have grown rich in a contraband market that has flourished under the international embargo.
Close supporters of the provisional Prime Minister, Marc L. Bazin, say the world should work with his Government to rebuild the economy and professionalize the armed forces. With progress, they say, the elected President might be able to return.
"I don't think that if Aristide ever returns to this country it will be because of the international community," a close adviser to Mr. Bazin said. "If he returns it will either be through revolution, or through working quietly to establish a climate of peace and reconciliation, and that would be a very positive thing for this country."
But even as they worried that international measures to secure his return would prove insufficient, supporters of Father Aristide said there was no reason to take such talk of reconciliation seriously.
"If we have learned one thing," said Wesner Emmanuel, a Senator whose party endorsed Father Aristide, "it is that for all of those involved in supporting the coup, the return of Aristide signifies a total failure."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (90%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (90%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT COUPS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ARMIES (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



707 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Campaign Finances;
Angry at Bush, Republican Contributors Are Helping Clinton

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Kathryn G. Thompson was a precinct worker for Barry Goldwater in 1964, a staunch supporter of Ronald Reagan in the 1980's, a Bush delegate at the 1988 Republican National Convention and a member of Team 100, the elite contributors to the Republican Party who each gave more than $100,000.
Last Thursday Ms. Thompson gave a luncheon in Costa Mesa, Calif., for 800 mostly Republican women to raise nearly $100,000 for the Presidential campaign and to honor a woman that Ms. Thompson has come to admire: Hillary Clinton. 
 Ms. Thompson, the head of a large California real estate development company that bears her name, is hardly alone. Gov. Bill Clinton's highly successful fund-raising drive has been collecting millions of dollars from a growing cadre of Wall Street bankers and corporate executives who, until this year, had been dyed-in-the-wool supporters of Republicans.
And today, at a news conference in Chicago, the Clinton-Gore campaign made public a list of about 400 corporate executives who have endorsed the Democratic ticket. Accompanying Mr. Clinton to the news conference were 100 representatives of big, medium and small businesses, and about a third of them identified themselves as Republicans who had previously supported Mr. Bush.
 
Gains in Fund Raising
 
 
Mr. Clinton has tapped into a well of Republican financial and political support that other Democratic Presidential candidates have not been able to touch, and it stretches from the conservative citadel of Orange County, Calif., to the investment houses of lower Manhattan. In the last few months he has courted discontented Republicans, and it is now beginning to pay off.
Largely with their financial help, Mr. Clinton's fund-raising machine believes it has surged well ahead of the Bush-Quayle campaign's. Democratic officials say they will have completed virtually all of their fund raising in the next two weeks, surpassing Michael S. Dukakis's $53 million general election drive of four years ago.
Mr. Bush's finance officials say they have fewer of their larger contributors than in 1988 and are far off their anticipated revenue, but are hoping to have a strong fund-raising month in October.
Donald R. Sweitzer, a Clinton fund raiser who was the finance director for the Democratic National Committee in 1988, said: "A lot of the fresh money this year is coming from Republican business-types. Some don't agree philosophically with all of Clinton's views, but they believe Bush's policies have failed and that he has betrayed them."
For Ms. Thompson, whose California company constructs 1,000 homes in good years but has built only about 300 this year, her unhappiness with the President has "been building up for almost four years," she said.
"As the recession came upon us and we had numerous meetings with the President and his staff," she said, "we got a lack of acknowledgement of the recession. Last October, at a Team 100 meeting, we urged the President to come out strongly to deal with it. But there was a continuous denial."
"I made my final decision after the Republican convention," Ms. Thompson continued. "I couldn't listen anymore to the intolerance, to the hate, that was coming out of the convention. And when the President, the leader of the party, said he hadn't read the party's platform, I thought that was outrageous."
The executives who have come out for Mr. Clinton publicly include the heads of Apple Computer, Hewlett-Packard, Sara Lee and Xerox.
 
Coming Out for Democrats
 Kenneth Brody, who heads Mr. Clinton's fund-raising efforts in New York, supported Republican Presidential candidates until last year, when he started to raise money for the Arkansas Governor. Mr. Brody, a limited partner at the Wall Street firm of Goldman Sachs, has helped raise more than $6 million for the primaries and the general election.
"It's not easy for C.E.O.'s to come out for Democrats," Mr. Brody said. "Most of the people they deal with are Republicans. Their boards are Republicans. When I first got involved in this I did some research and found that no Democrat had ever got the support of a really large group of C.E.O.'s. Now it is happening in spades. People are willing to step up."
Almost uniformly, the Republican stalwarts who have switched allegiances describe a deep disillusionment with the economic and social policies of the Bush Presidency and a concern that their party has moved too far to the right.
"I decided that President Bush shouldn't have a second term in view of his record in the first one," said David O. Maxwell, who retired last year as the head of the Federal National Mortgage Association and was a senior official in the Nixon Administration.
"The Administration has not been notably successful in managing the economy, and as a consequence the deficit has increased," he said. "I am strongly pro-choice, and the Clarence Thomas hearing was upsetting. Even worse was the Administration's position against fetal tissue research, which became tremendously ideological."
In the Chicago news conference today, Mr. Clinton said the business people supported him "not because they agree with me on everything, not because they think I have all the answers, but because I have pledged to them to listen, to work and to make progress."
"Clinton has convinced me that he is a different kind of a Democrat," said Roger W. Johnson, chairman and chief executive of the Western Digital Corporation, a manufacturer of computer parts in Irvine, Calif. He voted for Dwight D. Eisenhower and has voted for every Republican Presidential nominee since then. But this year he is raising money for Mr. Clinton.
"When I met him, I asked him to talk about economic affairs, health care and women's issues, and I liked what I heard," Mr. Johnson said of the Arkansas Governor. "He understands the depth and complexity of problems but doesn't throw his hand up. I'm afraid my own party thinks the problems will just fix themselves."
Mr. Johnson said he is not relishing the prospect of paying higher taxes under a Clinton administration, but many of the other converts say they are not troubled by such increases because they believe the Democrats stand a better chance of turning the economy around.
"It can't be all financial," said Roy Furman, president of the Wall Street investment house of Furman, Selz Inc., who voted for Mr. Bush and Mr. Reagan and this year has been the host for several fund-raising dinners in New York for Mr. Clinton. "It can't be just because one guy saves you a dollar he's better. You have to ask, 'Is it worth paying more money in taxes if you will revitalize the country?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Bill Clinton has tapped into money long unavailable to Democrats. Kenneth Brody, top left, a Wall Street banker (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); Roger W. Johnson, top right, a computer executive (Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times), and Kathryn G. Thompson, bottom right, a Republican donor, are converts who are matching their sentiments with money-raising efforts. (Liliana Nieto Del Rio for The New York Times); His campaign announced yesterday that he had been endorsed by 400 business leaders. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); CHICAGO BEARS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY CHICAGO BEARS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; FINANCES; BUSINESS ROLE IN POLITICS; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS) POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



708 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Dow Falls 6.22 in Light, Cautious Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The stock market closed lower yesterday in light, cautious trading dominated by uncertainty over Europe's proposed monetary union.
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, down by nearly 16 points early in the session, recouped the earlier losses, closing down 6.22 points at 3,320.83. Stock markets in London and Tokyo also posted small losses yesterday. 
 Declining issues outnumbered advances by about 10 to 7 on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume was light, with 153.9 million shares changing hands, down from 237.4 million in the previous session.
With no new economic reports during the session, stock market participants closely followed trends in the currency and bond markets after the French on Sunday narrowly endorsed the Maastricht treaty.
The pact is designed to unite the 12-nation European Community in economic, foreign and military policies and a single currency by 1999. Expectations of the possible "no" vote by the French contributed to last week's chaos in the currency markets.
Passage of the referendum steadied currency prices but sent United States Treasury bond prices lower, said Alfred Goldman, vice president of A. G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis.
"Until the currency situation is clarified and economic news emerges, the market will remain in this narrow trading range," said Dick Stein, chief technical analyst for the MKI Securities Corporation.
 
Technical Force Depresses Stocks
 A key technical force also depressed stock prices -- the expiration on Friday of stock options and index futures contracts, known as the "triple witching." Mr. Stein said stock prices generally retreat a session after advancing because of the technical effects of an options expiration.
Buyouts and takeovers accounted for heavy trading in several companies. The Travelers Corporation of Hartford was up 3 1/8 at 20 5/8 in active trading after it agreed to sell a 27 percent stake to the Primerica Corporation for $550 million.
The First Union Corporation, the Charlotte, N.C., banking company, fell 1, to 37, after it disclosed an agreement to buy Dominion Bankshares. The Virginia-based banking company was up 3 1/4 at 19 5/8 in active over-the-counter trading.
In over-the-counter trading, Rasterops of Santa Clara, Calif., was off 3 1/2 at 5 3/4, a decline of nearly 61 percent, after the technology company said sales would be off significantly in the third quarter.
Earnings reports also inspired trading. Nike gained 3/4, to 76 3/8, after reporting earnings rose only 7.4 percent in its first fiscal quarter from the period a year before. General Mills was delayed for trading because of an imbalance of buy and sell orders after it reported a 12 percent increase in first-quarter earnings. The stock did not resume trading for the day and the last price indication was 68 1/4. The stock closed at 72 3/4 on Friday.
Chrysler, up 3/4, to 24, led the active list on the Big Board, with analysts saying the buying was linked to introduction of the car marker's new LH automobiles. Other active issues on the Big Board included Merck , down 3/4, to 46 5/8; GTE Corporation, up 1/4, to 33 1/2; and the Chemical Banking Corporation, down 1/4, to 30 3/4.
The New York Stock Exchange's composite index closed down 0.50 point at 231.89. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index slipped 2.78 points, to 382.72.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (93%); C (BMV) (93%); 8710 (TSE) (93%); WFC (NYSE) (82%); GIS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (50%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (50%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (93%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (68%); TRAVELERS CORP (65%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); GENERAL MILLS INC (50%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); 

PERSON: DICK STEIN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



709 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 24; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Surge in Natural-Gas Prices Takes Them to 7-Year High

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES

 BODY:
The month-old surge in natural-gas prices continued yesterday as prices registered one of their biggest one-day advances in the futures market, with the contract for October delivery rising 12.4 cents to settle at $2.452 for 1,000 cubic feet.
Gas prices have now risen 60 cents, or 33 percent, since Hurricane Andrew tore through prime gas-production fields in the Gulf of Mexico four weeks ago, temporarily knocking out 5 percent of the nation's daily gas output. 
 Gas in the spot market has not traded above $2.40 in the month of September for more than seven years, and has averaged less than $2 since 1985, when the average was $2.51.
Traders and analysts said that prices were pushed higher yesterday in part by the Government's report Friday that about one billion cubic feet of lost production would not be fully restored until December. Another billion cubic feet of lost output has been restored.
The report, by the Minerals Management Service, came after the close of trading Friday on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Analysts said that gas purchasers were still rebuilding storage levels that were behind schedule for the winter heating season a month ago.
 
'Bullish Psychology'
 "The market has had another dramatic increase on an extremely bullish psychology," said Thomas Blakeslee, an energy analyst at the Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J. He said that many producers had reported selling gas in the cash market for between $2.35 and $2.40.
Buying patterns in the futures market indicated that gas prices could be trading at higher levels for several months. The average price for 12 monthly contracts through September 1993 was $2.063, the highest since trading in gas futures contracts began on the New York Mercantile Exchange in April 1990. The previous record was $2.05 in early December 1990.
In Texas, which produces 27 percent of the nation's gas, regulators said Friday that they had sharply increased output volumes for October, in part to enable producers to make up for any shortfall from shuttered wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
Most major producers, cheered by the higher gas prices, said that they were producing at close to their capacity and that they did not expect to fall behind on winter deliveries.
The ARCO Oil and Gas Company, which had opposed the new output laws now in effect in the Southwest, said that its Texas output had risen and that its Oklahoma production had fallen by less than 1 percent of its total domestic output.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; GAS (FUEL); PRICES NATURAL GAS MARKETS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); FUTURES (92%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); HURRICANES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



710 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 24; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Mostly Lower In Wake of Vote in France

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar settled mostly lower yesterday in trading in the wake of France's favorable vote on the Maastricht treaty.
Gold prices were mostly lower. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $347.50 a troy ounce, down $3.70 from Friday. The Republic National Bank said gold fell $3.50 an ounce to a late bid price of $347.50. 
 Dealers said the French vote narrowly favoring closer European monetary and political ties eased much of the turmoil that has gripped currency markets.
The British pound continued to be driven sharply lower. In London, the pound fell to $1.7130, from $1.7375 late Friday. In New York it cost $1.7085 to buy one pound, cheaper than Friday's $1.7345. A few weeks ago the pound was trading at around $2.
 
Speculation on British Move
 Traders said speculation was rife that Britain would lower interest rates this week. Since suspending its link to the other leading European currencies, Britain "does not have to be as committed to defending the value of the pound and can concentrate on getting its economy going," said Mike Faust, an analyst with MMS International. Lower interest rates help stimulate growth by making borrowing more attractive.
Randolph Donney, research director at Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J., said that despite the pressure on Germany to lower interest rates, the Bundesbank was likely to wait a few weeks before modestly easing rates.
Meanwhile, relatively little fresh economic data are expected to be released this week that would influence the dollar. Traders said the spotlight would remain on developments in Europe.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 124 yen, down 0.33 yen from Friday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 123.70 yen. In New York the dollar settled at 123.75 yen, down from 124.55 yen on Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's rates, included: 1.4835 German marks, down from 1.5035; 1.3030 Swiss francs, down from 1.3075; 5.0750 French francs, down from 5.1445; 1,254.00 Italian lire, down from 1,258.00, and 1.2321 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2168.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (88%); GERMANY (88%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (88%); GERMANY (88%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (52%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); BRITISH POUND (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); GERMAN MARK (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



711 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 27; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Trade's Long March;
Current U.S. Talks With China a Step On a Journey Expected to Take Years

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 20

 BODY:
As the United States and China prepare for what are likely to be nonstop negotiations to conclude a trade pact by Oct. 10, economists and Government officials say that this is only the beginning of years of tough talks for China as its trading partners demand it open its highly protected economy.
Now that China has emerged from decades of near-isolation to become a trading power, the United States is demanding in effect that it hasten the process of dismantling a huge apparatus of protection for its industries, most of it informal and all but impenetrable to outsiders. 
 The battling, the experts and officials said, is really over the fundamental character of the Chinese economy -- a process that is not very different from the unending trade clashes Washington has had with Japan and other Asian countries.
 
Others Have Also Complained
 The United States is not alone. Japan, South Korea and the European Community have at various times filed trade charges against China, complaining that it was dumping products into foreign markets at unfairly low prices.
China has tried over the last decade to transform its socialist economy from within, at its own pace. Now it is under pressure from outside to speed up the process considerably, and to adopt the West's rules.
"Nobody thinks that even if the Chinese agreed to everything being demanded here that this would be the end," said Nicholas R. Lardy, a professor at the University of Washington and an expert on the Chinese economy. "There are a series of problems."
Clyde Prestowitz, a senior trade official in the Reagan Administration and now president of the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington, added: "This is just the opening shot. Now that the cold war is gone, there's less reason for the U.S. to hold back. They will push this to the limit."
Some Chinese officials acknowledge that beyond the current demand for broad reductions in barriers to imports, a number of other issues remain, like the removal of barriers against specific products and the ending of various price subsidies that make foreign products uncompetitive.
In a sign of how difficult and bitter these negotiations could become, a Government official was quoted today as saying that American trade demands might force China to cancel a recent $130 million agreement to purchase American autos.
 
Car Deal Called Uncertain
 The China Daily said in a front-page article that trade officials here were uncertain whether they would go through with what would be the largest Chinese acquisition of American-made cars. The deal was with General Motors, Ford and Chrysler. Earlier, Chinese newspapers quoted officials as saying China might halt purchases of American wheat.
When American negotiators announced on Aug. 21 a list of $3.9 billion of imports from China that could be hit with punitive tariffs if a deal was not reached by the Oct. 10 deadline set by Washington, the Chinese offered their own list of American-made products on which they would slap punitive tariffs.
Adding to the tension is President Bush's recent decision to sell 150 F-16 jet fighters to Taiwan, which China views as a rebel province.
Each of China's tough responses in the negotiation process has only underscored the potential that the continuing trade demands have for creating strains in the relationship between Beijing and Washington.
China has a great deal at stake. In the span of a decade, it has gone from being a relative economic hermit to become a global trading power. Trade now accounts for more than 32 percent of the swiftly expanding Chinese economy, compared with 9.9 percent in 1978, and it is expected to import and export $165 billion worth of goods this year.
What has brought Washington's ire is that China's trade surplus with the United States has soared. It was $12.7 billion last year and is expected to be as much as $19 billion this year.
Foreign products are increasingly finding their way into Chinese department stores or into industrial plants these days. But those are usually in carefully selected industries where the Chinese feel they can open up without harming essential domestic industries, experts say.
Mr. Lardy said one of the greatest problems China faced in making broader changes was that it tended to use administrative and other informal barriers to imports rather than tariffs.
Most imports, in other words, are blocked by bureaucratic decree. Not only are those decrees difficult to reverse, but once they are removed it means China will have no rational system in place to exercise control over its trade.
"They know they have a big apparatus to enforce these arbitrary rules," Mr. Lardy commented. "They know they're vulnerable."
He added: "They're in a terrible situation, because if they ever really did remove the administrative barriers, they'd be flooded with imports. They're in for a tough transition."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CHINA CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES NICHOLAS R LARDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



712 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: Lessons From a Hurricane: It Pays Not to Gouge

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
The price of a sheet of exterior plywood -- a coveted commodity for patching up hurricane-battered houses -- was actually reduced on Sept. 14 at Home Depot stores supplying south Dade County, where Hurricane Andrew destroyed or damaged more than 75,000 homes. And since the hurricane struck on Aug. 24, the price of plywood at Home Depot stores in South Florida has increased only about half as much as the market price for plywood. 
 Executives from Home Depot, the largest building-materials retailer in the area, and Georgia-Pacific, the nation's biggest plywood producer, explain this price restraint as an act of collective corporate responsibility, forgoing millions of dollars in profit rather than benefiting from human misery.
 
A Half-Truth?
 Such magnanimity is a half-truth at best, economists reply. In post-disaster situations, they say, "fairness constraints" limit how much companies raise prices on scarce goods, even when suppliers are guided purely by self-interest. The principle is part of a subfield of a dismal science called behavioral economics, which, among other things, tries to decipher how the attitudes of consumers and regulators influence companies to refrain from capitalism's natural impulse -- pricing goods at whatever the market will bear.
The explanation is that consumers remember price-gouging suppliers and will avoid, or even boycott, them once shortages subside. Government agencies can also prod companies into line by threatening penalties against companies that appear to exceed the bounds of fair play.
"People will punish firms that behave unfairly," said Richard Thaler, an economist at the Cornell University business school. Mr. Thaler was one of three authors of a minor classic of behavioral economics, "Fairness as a Constraint on Profit-Seeking," in the American Economic Review in 1986.
The article by Mr. Thaler; Daniel Kahneman, a psychologist at the University of California at Berkeley, and Jack Knetsch, an economist at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, British Columbia, was based on hundreds of survey questions asked consumers seeking to determine "norms of fairness." An example: a hardware store, which had been charging $15 each for snow shovels, raises the price to $20 the morning after a big snowstorm. Eighty two percent of those polled replied that the price rise was unfair.
The three academics found that in general, people do not believe that scarcity is a good reason for a supplier to raise prices -- precisely the situation in South Florida after Hurricane Andrew.
What happened in the plywood market here after the storm is a classic example of fairness constraints at work. Home Depot, big producers like Georgia-Pacific and Louisiana-Pacific, government agencies and public opinion all played their scripted roles.
The big companies performed far differently than the price-gougers selling ice, water and lumber from the back of pickup trucks at wildly inflated prices in the first week after the hurricane hit. Classic economic theory, of course, defends these unrestrained entrepreneurs as utilitarian opportunists, encouraged by high profits to increase supplies of scarce goods. But unlike the carpetbagging vendors, who drove away at sunset, the big companies have a long-term stake in the South Florida market.
For them, the good will of local customers and government officials is a valuable asset. And for them, ignoring the fairness constraints could be costly. In short, the companies were presented the opportunity to do well by doing good, pleasing the shareholders and the communities where they do business.
"It is perfectly sensible for profit-maximizing firms to exercise price restraint in a situation like the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew," said Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economist.
The problems in the plywood market started to loom even before the storm arrived. With forecasters saying the hurricane was heading toward the Miami area, the Home Depot stores in South Florida were jammed on the weekend before the storm hit on Aug. 24. "People were clamoring for plywood," said Bruce Berg, president of Home Depot's southeast division. "There was a full-scale panic in Miami."
The 19 Home Depot stores in southeast Florida, Mr. Berg said, sold more 4-foot-by-8-foot sheets of exterior plywood in those two days than they usually sold in two weeks, emptying the company's distribution centers in Tampa and Atlanta. Besides, he adds, inventories were low after the peak summer building season and supplies were tight nationally because some lands in the Pacific Northwest had been placed off-limits for logging for environmental reasons.
After the storm hit, things got worse. In the first few days, Home Depot held its prices on plywood at pre-hurricane levels, but it was seeing its prices from suppliers jump sharply, up more than 30 percent on some daily quotes.
"You can argue the ethics of it, but it has happened many, many times before," Mr. Berg said of such scarcity-related price spikes. The market price of plywood soared after Hurricane Hugo hit South Carolina in 1989, for example.
 
Policy Is Announced
 On Friday, Aug. 28, Home Depot announced its policy for four storm-related building materials: exterior plywood, roofing shingles, roofing felt and polyethylene sheeting. The Atlanta-based retailer said it would sell those products at its delivered cost plus freight, thus taking no profit. There would also be quantity limits, like 25 sheets of plywood per customer. The rationing was to prevent unscrupulous operators from buying large quantities from Home Depot and reselling the items at inflated prices.
Home Depot, which buys directly from producers, was also negotiating with its big suppliers like Louisiana-Pacific and Georgia-Pacific to try to roll back plywood prices. Louisiana-Pacific agreed to freeze prices at pre-hurricane levels in the South Florida market on Aug. 28, while Georgia-Pacific followed on Sept. 4. The price curbs will last through September, and Georgia-Pacific has frozen plywood prices nationally for a month at the level reached at the end of August.
For its part, Georgia-Pacific has 16 mills and distribution centers in Florida and owns about 500,000 acres of timberland in Florida. "We're there for the long term and this seemed to be the responsible thing to do," said David Mortensen, a Georgia-Pacific executive vice president.
Still, the price rollbacks did come after the Florida attorney general's office issued subpoenas on Aug. 26 seeking pricing information from nine plywood suppliers including Georgia-Pacific and Louisiana-Pacific. The subpoenas were a response to local contractors' complaints that their plywood prices had doubled in a week's time. Florida's Attorney General, Robert A. Butterworth, colorfully declared that the only difference between a looter and a price-gouger was that "the price-gouger may wear a suit and tie."
The producers vigorously denied trying to take advantage of the shortages, noting that local contractors typically bought from wholesalers. Yet the prices producers charge customers in the Southeast have increased 28 percent, from $258 per 1,000 square feet before the hurricane to $330 on Sept. 18, according to Random Lengths, a weekly newsletter in Eugene, Ore.
Still, the moves by Georgia-Pacific and Louisiana-Pacific have helped Home Depot curb price increases, from $8.65 for a standard half-inch-thick sheet of exterior plywood before Hurricane Andrew to $10.15. The price was cut on Sept. 14 from $10.65, reflecting the recent settling in producer prices.
The companies that have helped cool the plywood-price spiral are receiving praise from many quarters. Philip Bloom, a contractor, says Home Depot and major producers "did a great job holding the line." Les Garringer, director of the Florida Attorney General's economic-crimes unit, commended Georgia-Pacific and Louisiana-Pacific for their "responsible behavior." And, he said:"We're very pleased with Home Depot's actions. They were the first to step forward to hold prices down."
Kerry L. Herndon, an ornamental flower grower in Homestead, marveled at the "unbelievably cheap" price on the sheets of plywood he bought from Home Depot. "If they had spent $50 million on advertising, they couldn't have bought the good will they got by doing this," he said.
In Kendall, on the northern edge of the hard-hit portion of south Dade County, Jeff Barrington is managing a makeshift Home Depot under a tent beside one of the company's storm-damaged stores. In shorts, baseball cap and an orange Home Depot apron, Mr. Barrington recognizes that the company's fair-play pricing policy was a shrewd business decision.
"This will pay us back -- people will remember," he said. Nearby, a small table has been set up for hiring. The plan is to add 75 people to the 130-member staff of the 80,000-square-foot store. "There is obviously going to be a lot of rebuilding around here soon, and the business here is really going to take off," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "This will pay us back -- people will remember," said Jeff Barrington, manager of a makeshift Home Depot in Kendall, Fla., about holding the prices down on plywood in the wake of the hurricane. (pg. D1); Home Depot stores in Dade County, Fla., and Georgia-Pacific, the nation's biggest plywood producer, used price restraint in selling plywood to the victims of Hurricane Andrew. Workmen put up a temporary sign in Perrine, Fla. (pg. D5) (Susan Greenwood for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORP; LOUISIANA-PACIFIC CORP; HOME DEPOT INC HOME DEPOT INC (95%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORP; LOUISIANA-PACIFIC CORP; HOME DEPOT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; PRICES; HURRICANE ANDREW; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE ANDREW; SHORTAGES HURRICANES (93%); TROPICAL STORMS (92%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HOME CENTERS (89%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (89%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (89%); UNFAIR PRICING (78%); ENGINEERED WOOD PRODUCT MFG (78%); WEATHER (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); HARDWARE STORES (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); BOYCOTTS (72%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



713 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
The Mothball Era In Arms Industry

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
THE Lockheed Corporation's factory complex in Burbank, Calif., is nearly empty now. With military work declining in the post-cold-war era, Lockheed shifted warplane production to newer plants to keep them busy. The most talked-about activity at the nearly deserted Burbank complex takes place in a corner of an otherwise unused building: a group of companies -- potential parts suppliers for a future electric car -- have borrowed floor space to assemble the sort of car they would like to help manufacture.
Across America, weapons factories stand empty or partly empty. Some, like the Lockheed complex in Burbank, date back to World War II and are no longer suitable for conversion to modern production of civilian products. But others are new, like the $100 million California plant that the Rockwell International Corporation built to produce the B1-B bomber, which has been canceled. Together with thousands of former employees, the old and the new are in effect mothballed. 
 "Easily one-third if not more of the military industry's production capacity is down now," said Greg Bischak, executive director of the National Commission for Economic Conversion and Disarmament, a Washington organization.
Sam F. Iacobellis, chief operating officer of Rockwell International, does not challenge such data. "All military contractors have excess facilities," he said. "We had no reason to believe that the Berlin wall would come down or that the Soviet Union would break apart, and we overexpanded."
Most military contractors want the Federal Government to prevent the industry from shrinking much further. Congress should put a floor under military spending cuts so that the United States can maintain its role as a superpower, they argue. Others, outside the industry, counter that Pentagon spending should be channeled instead into converting military plants to civilian production. The Government would be the chief customer in these hard times, given the reluctance of the private sector to buy the products already available from commercial companies.
Shipyards now dedicated to making Navy warships, for example, could produce a new generation of supertankers with double hulls to protect against oil spills. Tank and aircraft factories could make pipes, electronic equipment, rail cars and other goods for public-works projects. Such spending, the argument goes, will create more jobs than the same dollars devoted to weaponry.
But while this debate proceeds, the huge military industry keeps shrinking, and the idled factories and lost jobs -- more than 300,000 since 1989 -- seem to be inflicting permanent damage on the American economy, now suffering from prolonged stagnation. The story of Barry Beggs, a 31-year-old systems engineer, and his colleagues illustrates the damage.
Mr. Beggs, educated in California, became a specialist in designing the systems that make fighter planes work. After three years at the Grumman Corporation, he joined the General Dynamics Corporation in Fort Worth to help design systems for the A12 fighter. But that project was canceled and Mr. Beggs was laid off early last year, along with 1,200 other engineers.
Twenty percent of that group have left engineering and are trying to get jobs in other fields, according to a survey conducted by a Fort Worth engineers association. The nation has lost them as trained engineers. Another 16 percent migrated to military jobs in other cities, often at lower pay. "They still see their future in military work," Mr. Beggs said. "It is very difficult for an engineer to send a resume listing a military background. There seems to be a bias against us."
Still, Mr. Beggs, like most of his jobless colleagues, sent out such resumes -- with mixed results. Losing his General Dynamics salary of $42,000, he was unemployed for seven months, finally getting work with a newly formed Fort Worth company that designs software for personal computers. The job paid $30,000 and lasted three months; the company then ran short of money.
Leaving Fort Worth, Mr. Beggs ended up in Durham, N.C., where a company called Analysts International has obtained contract work for him, currently at Northern Telecom Inc., where he designs data bases. The pay is a bit higher than at General Dynamics, but that is offset by the lack of benefits; the work is quite different from designing warplane systems.
By most estimates, at least 20 percent of the nation's scientists and engineers are employed in military work. That represents a huge potential loss of highly skilled people as military spending shrinks. So far, few programs exist to retrain engineers like Mr. Beggs to save them for commercial work. "I have had to acquire new skills on my own," Mr. Beggs said. "If Analysts International has a job and I have my skills up, they'll place me, and if I don't keep up my skills, they won't place me."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (94%); ROK (NYSE) (83%); GD (NYSE) (60%); NOC (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (83%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (60%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (60%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (60%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (60%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (60%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (94%); ROCKWELL AUTOMATION INC (83%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (60%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); COLD WAR (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); SHIPBUILDING (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (71%); DISARMAMENT (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (66%); MARINE TANKERS (66%); OIL SPILLS (61%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS BARRY BEGGS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



714 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: After 17 Years, NASA Prepares for a Return Trip to Mars

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
SEVENTEEN years after the last American flights to Mars, a spacecraft is set to depart on a $900 million mission of renewed exploration of the one other world in the solar system where humans might conceivably make a home away from Earth.
"America is going back to Mars," said Dr. Wesley T. Huntress, director of solar system exploration for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, putting the simplest interpretation on the importance of the new mission. 
 Elaborating on the mission's scientific context, Dr. Arden L. Albee of the California Institute of Technology, the chief project scientist, said: "Previous missions have dispelled much of the mystery that's surrounded Mars. Mars is alive and complex, much like Earth. We have explored it and are now going back to observe it."
The agent of this new round of planetary investigation is the 5,700-pound spacecraft Mars Observer, which is to be launched Friday at Cape Canaveral, Fla., by a Titan 3 rocket with a powerful new upper-stage booster.
Anxiety is running high among scientists and spacecraft engineers, who have not waited out a countdown for flights to Mars since 1975. This time there is only one craft, with no backup. And they must get it going by Oct. 13, or else face a costly delay of two years until Mars is again in proper alignment with Earth.
Nine days of the launching opportunity were squandered when workers recently discovered metal flakes, paint chips and other contamination all over the spacecraft and had to haul it back to the hangar for a thorough cleaning. Some officials said this added to the vague unease that haunts the final days of any countdown and may be more worrisome this time because Mars Observer, built by the General Electric Company under the direction of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., had encountered so many development troubles.
If all goes well, though, Mars Observer will embark on an 11-month voyage, then swing into an orbit of Mars. From an altitude of 242 miles, the craft will cross both poles once every 117 minutes and return more data about the red planet than were transmitted by all previous missions to Mars.
Mariner 9 was the first spacecraft to orbit Mars, in 1971 and 1972, producing the first maps of another planet based on almost complete photographic coverage and demolishing forever legends of Martians who left a network of canals irrigating their dying civilization. Two Viking spacecraft, launched in 1975, reached Mars a year later for the first successful landings and automated experiments examining Martian soil for signs of biological activity -- and finding none. The most recent probes to Mars were two Russian spacecraft launched in 1988; one failed en route, the other shortly after reaching Mars.
Scientists hope that at the least Mars Observer will photograph the entire planet in finer detail than ever before and will be able to report on seasonal changes through an entire Martian year, which lasts 687 Earth days. The spacecraft is equipped with cameras and remote-sensing instruments to conduct the most thorough survey yet of the planet's topography, magnetism, mineral wealth, global wind storms and generally frigid weather and of the role water played in its past and could play in its future.
Even if those canals were figments of human imagination, one of the most intriguing questions about Mars -- was there ever life there? -- hinges on the matter of water in the planet's past. The question is raised because of clear evidence of widespread dry river valleys and other scars of erosion indicating global flooding on Mars in its early years. So scientists think it is possible that in those wetter times, when the climate of Mars was probably more like Earth's, life could have evolved briefly and left some fossil traces that future explorers might search for.
The other question is, where did the water go? Much of it undoubtedly evaporated into space, but previous spacecraft have detected large amounts of frozen water in the polar ice caps and have hinted at the existence of even more water trapped underground as a thick layer of permafrost extending over much of the higher latitudes. These residues of water, scientists reason, are the most promising places to search for pockets of existing microbial life or fossils of extinct organisms from the Martian past.
 
Potential for Major Discoveries
 Dr. Michael H. Carr, a planetary geologists with the United States Geological Survey who is a member of the Mars Observer science team, said: "We know that life started on Earth. We don't know what happened on Mars, and so we want to go back in time and look at, particularly, water-associated deposits."
The spacecraft's seven scientific instruments give the mission the potential for a wide range of discoveries beyond the water question.
Mineral prospecting will be conducted by the gamma ray spectrometer. High-energy gamma radiation is produced by the natural decay of radioactive elements and by cosmic rays interacting with the atmosphere and surface. By observing these gamma rays, the spectrometer should be able to determine the chemical composition of the surface.
The same instrument also includes a detector for measuring neutrons created by cosmic-ray impacts on the surface. The neutron detector is especially sensitive to the presence of hydrogen and carbon in Martian soil.
"With the neutron data we will be able to map out planetwide the water content in the top meter of Martian soil and search for carbonate minerals that could indicate the previous existence of life on Mars," said Dr. Bill Feldman, the physicist at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico who developed the neutron detector.
Minerals will also be identified by the thermal emission spectrometer, designed to measure telltale infrared emissions from the Martian surface. Another instrument, the pressure modulator infrared radiometer, will monitor the atmosphere by determining temperature, water vapor and dust from near the surface to altitudes of 50 miles.
A magnetometer will search for evidence of a magnetic field now or in the past. Mars is the only planet, aside from Pluto, for which a planetary magnetic field has not yet been observed.
"Mars ought to have on," Dr. Albee said. "If it doesn't, did it have one in the past? If it did have one in the past, when did it quit having a magnetic field, and why?"
Scientists say the Mars Observer's narrow-angle camera is expected to take the most detailed pictures ever made of the planet, discerning objects as small as 10 feet across. The two wide-angle cameras can produce a complete color image of the entire planet every day.
A laser altimeter will be used to measure the distance from the spacecraft to the surface with the precision of several feet. From these measurements, scientists will produce more exact relief maps of Mars and learn something of the geologic forces shaping the planet's crust.
Dr. Huntress said that Mars Observer was a prerequisite to human flights to Mars because it should "provide a global data base and map where to send humans and what it is they are to do once they get there."
Although President Bush has said human flights to Mars should be the ultimate goal of the American space program, there are no such firm plans and, in the current economic climate, are not likely to be any for some years. But there are plans to accelerate and broaden robotic exploration of the planet by both the United States and Russia, and all will be depending on Mars Observer.
As Mars Observer is completing its primary mission covering one Martian year, a Russian spacecraft to be launched in 1994 would be delivering two or more small landers with scientific instruments to the surface of the planet. In addition, two "penetrators" would be deployed to drill into the surface for geological studies.
Russian scientists are counting on Mars Observer maps to help them select the most promising landing sites. And the American craft will also be carrying a French radio to relay transmissions from the Russian landers and penetrators to control stations on Earth. This should insure a greater return of data than could be handled by Russian transmissions alone.
If Mars Observer is still active in 1997, it will be asked to perform the same relay service for a planned Russian-European mission, launched in 1996, that is to deploy a roving vehicle on the Martian surface and a French balloon in the planet's thin carbon-dioxide atmosphere.
Dr. Carr, a member of a joint working group of American and Russian planetary scientists, said that despite political and economic turmoil in the former Soviet Union, the Russian Mars projects for 1994 and 1996 appeared to retain financial support, with French help, and to remain on schedule. But scientists worried that the slightest setback could derail the programs.
On the drawing boards is an even more comprehensive program of exploration to follow Mars Observer. As outlined by mission planners at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, NASA's next Mars mission would be called Pathfinder, a landing craft to be sent to the planet in 1996 carrying a small roving vehicle. Scientists said they were fairly optimistic that the project would be approved.
Pathfinder would be a test run for the much more ambitious Mars Environmental Survey, or Mesur, a 10-year program that would deliver 16 small automated science stations to the planet's surface, beginning in 1999. The network will concentrate on geological studies, weather measurements and seismic monitoring to learn something of the Martian crust and deep interior. Some stations will have mini-rovers for going out and collecting rock samples and making other observations.
Daniel S. Goldin, the NASA administrator, is pressing for such expanded exploration of Mars. The Mesur landers, he said, "will head for some of the more interesting areas of Mars -- such as the polar regions and canyons -- seeking possible human landing sites where the potential for water and signs of life or fossils may be greatest."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Photo from Viking's Orbiter shows area in northern hemisphere of Mars believed to be more than two billion years old. Debris-filled channel is three to six miles wide and about 120 miles long; its appearance suggests existence of liquid water in planet's early history.; The only direct evidence for the existence of water on Mars now is the polar ice caps. A section of the northern polar ice field shows an array of tones that may indicate redistribution of ice and soil particles by wind. (NASA) (pg. C10)
 
Drawings: A Scenic Cruise Through Pink Skies
 As a spacecraft orbits Mars for 687 days, a Martian year, scientists will sift the data it transmits for answers to some key questions about the planet. Some of the most intriguing issue involve water, a key to life. Terrain photographed in earlier missions suggests the presence of permafrost and huge, ancient lake beds. The southern polar cap (photo at left) is composed of carbon dioxide frost and is very different from the northern polar region. The dry channel in the photo at right suggests that water once flowed on the surface.
 
The Mars Observer
 The spacecraft carries seven scientific instruments and its orbits will carry it over the Martian poles. Its photographs will be much sharper than any previously obtained.
 
(Source: NASA/Jet Propulsion Laboratory.) (pg C1)
 
Diagrams: "Filling in Map of an Uncharted Plante"
 A Titan III rocket is to carry the Mars Observer into Earth orbit and then separate from it. A Second rocket booster is to fire to free the spacecraft from Earth's gravity and carry it to a polar orbit of Mars.
 
Spacecraft Trajectory
 Interplanetary flight lasts one year
 Mapping phase begins, to last one Martian year, or 687 Earth days
 Scientists want to make an inventory of the distribution and nature or materials on Mars and study its environmental conditions and geological and biological history.
 
Internal structure of the planet.
 Structure of the planet's surface, mantle and core and the locations of any Marsquakes.
 
Global atmospheric circulation.
 The Martian atmosphere and weather, and how they fluctuate.
 
(Source: NASA) (pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (65%); GEC (LSE) (65%); GE (SWX) (65%); GE (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARS (99%); EARTH (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (65%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (94%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (59%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (59%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (94%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (59%); JET PROPULSION LABORATORY (59%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARS (99%); EARTH (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; MARS (PLANET); PHOTOGRAPHY; RESEARCH; PLANETS SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (52%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



715 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk; The Environment Page

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: A Strategy to Survey The Vast Unknowns Of Life on the Earth

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
SCIENTISTS have explored the physical world from the nucleus of atoms to the far stretches of galaxies, yet the realm of living things on earth remains so unexplored that biologists are "close to traveling blind," argues Dr. Edward O. Wilson of Harvard University.
About 1.4 million species of plants, animals and microorganisms have been given scientific names, Dr. Wilson estimates. How many species live on earth? Scientists have no idea, he writes: "The number could be close to 10 million or as high as 100 million." 
 A leading biologist, Dr. Wilson has done his best to chart the unknown. In his laboratory in Cambridge, Mass., he is describing, classifying and drawing 4,000 pictures of 600 species of ants that he and associates have collected, all belonging to a single genus. But even this labor will hardly roll back the veil of ignorance.
As part of a new book about the diversity of life, Dr. Wilson lays out a grand strategy for discovering and classifying the species of the living kingdoms before it is too late.
 
New Worlds, Close to Home
 Because of the destruction of tropical forests and other habitats, uncounted species are becoming extinct before scientists can even name and study them for their scientific and economic value. An effort to survey all these "unmined riches," Dr. Wilson says, is at least as important as mapping the human genome or cataloguing the heavens, since it involves the living fabric on which human survival depends.
For anyone looking for new worlds to explore, "this is where the action is going to be," he said, adding: "It's not going to be on the outer planets. It's going to be right here in the exploration of biodiversity."
It is not clear how much effort and money have been expended in such explorations, but little scientific or governmental attention has been paid to warnings like Dr. Wilson's until recently.
Dr. Wilson says that by spending $100 million a year, using presently available manpower, the United States could make a substantial contribution to a global biodiversity survey. In comparison, the project to map the entire human genetic structure will cost about $200 million a year for 15 years, and a manned mission to Mars would cost $10 billion to $15 billion a year for 30 years.
Dr. Wilson has been singing some verses of this song for a while, but many scientists believe that the time may now be ripe for the exploratory strategy he proposes, and that his stature will give it special weight and visibility.
"There's no question that the scientific interest in biodiversity today, compared to 10 or 20 years ago, is much greater," said Dr. Frank Press, president of the National Academy of Sciences. "Wilson is a world-class scientist, and some other world-class scientists have expressed concern about this, so you have to take them seriously."
 
Growing Encyclopedia of Life
 Dr. Wilson worked out his proposed strategy for the exploration of biological diversity, an overall framework rather than a detailed plan, with Dr. Peter Raven, director of the Missouri Botanical Garden. As outlined in "The Diversity of Life," to be published Oct. 6 by Harvard University Press, it envisions three tiers of activity.
The first is an emergency assessment of immediately threatened regional ecosystems thought to harbor especially rich and diverse assortments of species -- "brush fires of extinction." This quick assessment would focus on clusters of large, familiar organisms like flowering plants, mammals, reptiles, birds, fishes and butterflies that can provide a rough gauge of diversity. Areas where high diversity is confirmed could then be the focus of intense conservation efforts.
Beyond this assessment, Dr. Wilson and Dr. Raven propose an intermediate effort aimed at a more systematic exploration of threatened areas that are especially rich in species, like tropical rain forests. More complete inventories would be made, taking in smaller, more prevalent creatures like ants, beetles and fungi, along with close studies of environmental factors like rainfall and temperature. Insects and other arthropods are so vital to the overall functioning of life, Dr. Wilson writes, that "humanity probably could not last more than a few months" if they were to disappear.
Finally, a global biodiversity survey would combine the first two studies with more conventional long-term explorations. The survey would be broadened to include the tiniest creatures like protozoa and bacteria. This growing encyclopedia of life would provide, over decades and even centuries, a description of the living world that gradually coalesced "to create a fine-grained image of global biodiversity."
Eventually, national biodiversity centers would be established as bases for exploration and repositories of accumulated knowledge. Dr. Wilson cites the example of Costa Rica's three-year-old National Institute of Biodiversity, whose aim is "nothing less than to account for all the plants and animals of this small Central American country."
Some biologists and conservationists welcome the Wilson proposal in principle while not necessarily agreeing with all the details. "It's a framework institutions like ours can buy into," said Dr. Adrian Forsyth, director of conservation biology of Conservation International, which has pioneered emergency assessment of biodiversity in the tropics. "Until someone lays out the agenda, we'll continue to work in a scattered, haphazard way. Wilson lays out an agenda."
The recommendation "is not going to be a panacea," said Dr. Gary Hartshorn, a tropical forest ecologist and vice president of the World Wildlife Fund, but he added: "He's at least pointing us in the right direction. The fact that he's taken this on and proposed it will mean a lot to the biological, ecological and conservation communities both here and elsewhere."
Galvanizing Federal support for a concept of this magnitude will not be easy, said Dr. Forsyth, a former student of Dr. Wilson's, even though other scientific areas greatly outstrip biodiversity in getting funds. "The amount of money that goes into recombinant DNA work, for example, just vastly dwarfs the whole 40 years of funding that's gone into understanding biodiversity," he said.
If the exploration of the biological world lags in funds, it lags also in performance, says Dr. Wilson. "In the realm of physical measurement," he writes in the new book, "evolutionary biology is far behind the rest of the natural sciences."
The smaller the biological scale, the deeper the level of ignorance. "The biologist starts with a big piece of forest and determines the larger organisms," Dr. Wilson said. "He draws in closer. Now he's looking at a bit of soil, a rotting log, a clump of leaves, and in that is a microwilderness, with the whole complex of biodiversity all over again. He looks more closely, down to a tiny fleck of rotting wood or the edge of a leaf, and there is yet a whole other world of complexity composed mostly of fungi and bacteria and protozoa."
At those smaller scales, he said, the prospects for exploration are "virtually unlimited; a single gram of soil contains as many as 4,000 or 5,000 species of bacteria, virtually all of them unknown." Bacteria, he writes, "await biologists as the black hole of taxonomy." Some of this diversity "stares us in the face but goes unrecognized."
It is very likely, Dr. Wilson said, "that the average person carries a few new species of bacteria on his shoes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Edward O. Wilson of Harvard University has devised a strategy for discovering and classifying species. (Gregory Heisler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: DIVERSITY OF LIFE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (92%); MARS (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EARTH (92%); MARS (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY; RESEARCH BIOLOGY (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIODIVERSITY (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (79%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (78%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); SPACE EXPLORATION (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (72%); ANIMALS (72%); GENOMICS (71%); BIOCHEMICAL RESEARCH (69%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (66%); DEFORESTATION (66%); BIOCHEMISTRY (65%); 

PERSON: WILSON, EDWARD O (DR); STEVENS, WILLIAM K EDWARD O WILSON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1992



716 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Credit Markets;
New Treasury Bidding Rule Costly for U.S. in Note Sale

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The first test of the Treasury's new auction system yesterday did not go well for the Government, according to bidders, analysts and the auction details released by the Treasury. Despite a record low yield for the two-year note of 4 percent, the Treasury may still have paid more than it had to.
But some traders argued that the Treasury could be expected to pay a premium, considering the uncertainty surrounding the test. They said that the Treasury was likely to benefit in the long run after dealers and traders get used to the system. 
 As it turned out, traders said, yesterday was not the best day to try the system, in which securities are awarded at a single price. The bond market was down sharply across the board, with the 30-year bond off almost a point and a half and the yield leaping to 7.46 percent.
A surprisingly strong jump in housing starts, some selling of Treasury securities to hedge against large corporate and municipal issues yesterday and the possibility of some central bank selling of notes in the afternoon all contributed to the tumble, dealers said.
The new bidding system will be used for a year in the two- and five-year note auctions. The five-year note auction is today.
The test is a response to the Salomon Brothers scandal a year ago in which the firm admitted to illegal bidding. The goal is to encourage more aggressive bidding and to increase participation, which could open the system and make collusion less likely.
In the single-price Dutch auction being tested, all securities are awarded at the lowest price, or highest yield. This means that bidders, who are mostly the 39 primary dealers in the Treasury market, do not have to worry about paying more than their competitors. Under the system still being used at all other auctions, it is possible to pay too much, since securities are awarded to multiple bidders according to a scale of rising yields and declining prices until all are sold.
Not long before the 1 P.M. bidding deadline in yesterday's auction, John Costas, managing director of trading and sales at the First Boston Corporation, gathered with his fellow bond traders and salesmen around the desk of the two-year note specialist, Tony Zizzamia.
They discussed the sales they had made to customers; they tried to gauge demand, and they looked at rows of computer screens as the yield on the two-year note moved in the preauction, or when-issued, market. But most of all, they were trying to figure out how to bid in the new system.
"This is the first time, and we have nothing in experience to base anyone's behavior on," said Mr. Costas, who was wondering how the other 38 primary dealers were handling the same unknowns. A lot of the skill in bidding in Treasury auctions involves dealers figuring out what other dealers are doing so that they can get the amount of securities they need at the best prices, which, under the system being tested, is assured.
When the bidding deadline passed, Mr. Costas concluded that the new system had made him a little more aggressive than he would have been in last month's auction. He bid one basis point, or a hundredth of a percentage point, more than he might have under the other system. He could afford to be more aggressive because, under the new rules, First Boston would not have to pay more -- the winner's curse -- if it was more aggressive.
And that would be good for the Treasury if most dealers followed suit, because their aggressive bidding would bring higher prices and lower yields, which reduces Treasury borrowing costs.
But the overall results, at least in this first test, seemed to show that the Treasury did not get the benefit of the aggressive bidding of First Boston and the even more aggressive bidding other primary dealers.
The $14.5 billion of two-year notes was awarded at a yield of 4.00 percent, well below the 4.30 percent in the August auction. But that yield was higher than the aggressive bid by First Boston. (Mr. Costas did not want to reveal his exact bids.)
More important, the median bid was 3.98 percent, with 50 percent of the bids at this level or lower. Five percent of the bids were at 3.93 percent or lower, and one dealer said that a customer of his bid as low as 3.75 percent. When the yield is lower, dealers pay the Treasury more, saving the Government interest costs.
In addition, demand turned out to be very high compared with recent auctions, which is a situation in which the Treasury can usually get its best results. But in yesterday's case, while a vast majority of the bids were under the 4.00 percent level, the whole issue was sold at the lower price that comes with the higher yield.
"Over time, I believe there will be a savings for the Treasury, but I don't think the saving was realized today," Mr. Costas said.
 
Concentrated Demand
 Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, N.J., said that while there was stronger demand than average for the auction, most of it seemed to be concentrated among the 39 primary dealers in New York. This was shown by the fact that 94.8 percent of the bids yesterday where made through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Yet one of the Treasury's goals is to increase participation outside of the dealer community. However, yesterday's test may not be a good measure because a lot of potential bidders stayed away until they saw how the system worked, traders said.
Jerome H. Powell, Under Secretary of the Treasury for Finance, declined to comment on the specifics of the auction. But he said in an interview: "It is important to remember that this is a yearlong experiment and any claims of success or failure are premature.
"Theory would suggest that a more aggressive pattern of bidding would emerge in a single-price auction, and we are conducting this experiment to test that theory."
 
Treasury Market
 The fall in the Treasury market started overseas when the German central bank announced a surge in its money supply growth in August. That lessened chances for an interest rate cut there and, in turn, in the United States.
But the market then fell dramatically in the early morning after the Commerce Department reported that housing starts surged 10.4 percent in August, the strongest monthly gain in 18 months.
Although many analysts expect the pace to level off, the report was a real surprise because forecasts for the August figure were for around 3 percent growth. The high actual growth figure shook the bond market because it could mean an upturn in economic growth, rising inflation and higher interest rates.
The further fall in the afternoon, traders said, was related to rumors of central bank selling of Treasury notes and breaking of key price levels, after which investors sold in order to protect profits already made.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of two-year Treasury notes under the single-price system:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Median Yield . . . 3.98%
High Yield . . . 4.00%
Low price 100.00 Low Yield . . . 3.93%
Accepted at low price . . . 3%
Total applied for . . . $29,177,375
Accepted . . . $8,539,110
N.Y. applied for . . . $25,685,395
N.Y. accepted . . . $7,442,995
Noncompetitive . . . $1,173,000
Interest set at . . . 4%
 
The two-year notes mature Sept. 30, 1994.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows the amount of yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data); "2-Year Treasury Notes" shows the average discounted rate in percent from April 1991-Sept. 1992. (pg. D23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FIRST BOSTON CORP (62%); NEW TREASURY (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW TREASURY (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; AUCTIONS AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); SALES MANAGEMENT (65%); HOUSING STARTS (53%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN JOHN COSTAS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



717 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Congress voted to regulate soaring cable television prices, sending the controversial bill to President Bush and daring him to carry out his threatened veto in the face of commanding votes for the measure in both the House and Senate. But consumers are unlikely to see an immediate effect from the bill. [Page D1.]
Builders broke ground on new homes in August at the fastest pace since March. The annual rate of 1,237,000 was 10.4 percent higher than in July and was the biggest gain in 18 months. [D6.] 
 Most businesses will be able to deposit withholding taxes just once a month under simplified rules published by the I.R.S. [D6.]
 
Markets
The Government fared poorly in the first test of the Treasury's new auction system, according to bidders, analysts and the auction details released by the Treasury, despite a record low yield for the two-year note. The bond market was down sharply. [D1.]
The Dow industrials fell 39.98 points, or 1.2 percent, to 3,280.85, as the stock market declined broadly. Investors sold auto stocks and executed computerized selling strategies. [D8.]
Natural gas futures prices accelerated, with the October contract rising 19.4 cents to $2.646 per 1,000 cubic feet. [D24.]
The dollar slumped to its lowest closing level ever against the Japanese yen at 121.02 to the dollar. Gold prices rose. [D24.]
 
International
Britain cut its benchmark interest rate one point, to 9 percent, showing it has abandoned its effort to stabilize its currency and will concentrate on reinvigorating its weak economy. [A1.]
Events in the currency markets in the last week are a bitter reminder to central bankers and finance ministers around the world that their power to control economies and currencies has eroded, with traders and speculators overwhelming them. [D1.]
Japan's economy grew a paltry three-tenths of 1 percent in the second quarter of this year, the Government reported. [D6.]
The Senate Finance Committee approved a bill that would make no important changes in American trade law. [D7.]
 
Companies
Coca-Cola said its worldwide case sales would be flat this quarter, surprising analysts and overshadowing an announcement that it would sell Nordic Mist, a flavored sparkling water. [D4.]
Gensia Pharmaceuticals lost more than a third of its market value after reporting disappointing early tests on Arasin, its flagship cardiovascular drug. [D4.]
The biotech industry is several years away from profitability, de4spite rapid expansion, Ernst & Young reported. [D4.]
Ronald P. Erickson was named chairman of Egghead Software, the nation's largest computer software retailer. [D5.]
Pat Robertson's entertainment company bought the London company that owns MTM Productions for $68.5 million. [D5.]
Metropolitan Life said it would replace its chief executive and chief financial officer in a sweeping management shakeup. [D5.]
 
Business Technology
Niche technologies often go begging for development dollars, and even those that easily attract investment tend to mature slowly. The cumulative effect saps the nation's competitiveness, manufacturing experts say. [D19.]
 
Today's Columns
'Junk bonds' are back as mutual fund investors press for higher yields. With $29.5 billion in new public issues sold so far this year, investment firms expect to easily surpass the record junk bond sales of $31.9 billion set in the giddy 1986 market. Market Place. [D1.]
Many of America's largest marketers are aiming sales messages at gay and lesbian consumers, rather than being daunted by campaign rhetoric. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D27.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (54%); COCA-COLA CO (52%); EGGHEAD.COM INC (50%); SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PRICE INCREASES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VETO (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BONDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BOND MARKETS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); NATURAL GAS (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); GOLD MARKETS (70%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (51%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



718 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Head Scolds U.S. And Bonn for Deficits

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Laying out an economic rationale for the politically difficult step of cutting budget deficits, the head of the International Monetary Fund scolded the United States and Germany today, saying their large budget deficits hurt world growth.
Opening the formal sessions of the annual meeting of the monetary fund and the World Bank, Michel Camdessus, the fund's managing director, used the moral suasion of his office to press Washington and Bonn to cut their deficits. He said the move would improve investor confidence, ease inflationary pressures and reduce long-term interest rates. 
 If Germany cut its budget deficit, Mr. Camdessus said, that would give that nation's central bank more latitude to lower its high interest rates, which the United States and Britain repeatedly criticized last week. The Bundesbank has pushed its rates to over 9 percent to offset the inflationary pressures caused by the deficit, and those high rates helped fuel last week's currency tensions in Europe.
 
Defying Conventional Wisdom
 In a hotel ballroom packed with finance ministers and central bankers from 172 countries, Mr. Camdessus defied the wisdom of most economists and said the United States and other nations should cut their deficits now, even though the world was mired in a protracted slump. While the conventional wisdom is that cutting deficits during an economic downturn would further weaken fragile economies, Mr. Camdessus said, "Each postponement of long overdue fiscal action adds to the severity of the problem."
"Any further postponement" of deficit reduction "out of concern for possible short-tem effects on activity would contribute to a worse environment rather than a better one," Mr. Camdessus added. He did not address the short-term political pain that would be exacted by the spending cuts or tax increases needed to cut deficits.
Mr. Camdessus spoke on a day when financial markets remained tense, with the French franc and several other European currencies slipping to near the minimum level to which they are allowed to fall under the European monetary system, an 11-nation arrangement of fixed exchange rates.
As financial officials and journalists milled about, the halls of the Sheraton-Washington Hotel were filled with rumors that there might be further devaluations in Europe. Finance Minister Theo Waigel of Germany was so wrapped up in meetings that he canceled a long-scheduled lunch with journalists.
Sounding like a lecturing schoolmaster, Mr. Camdessus praised Japan, saying prudent budget policies had allowed Tokyo to "announce a welcome economic package" to stimulate its economy.
 
Scolds the United States
 But he spoke of the United States as a wayward pupil, suggesting that its budget deficit had made it difficult for Washington to use fiscal stimulus to escape its protracted slowdown. Instead, the United States has relied on monetary policy in the form of low interest rates to spur the economy.
On Monday, Finance Minister Carlos Solchaga of Spain, the chairman of the monetary fund's main policy-making committee, said that American rates were too low and German rates too high, and that the gap between the two countries' rates had caused Europe's currency crisis. The gap encouraged many money managers to shun American investments in favor of high-yield German assets. That strengthened the mark so much that it forced Britain, Italy and Spain to devalue their currencies last week.
Mr. Camdessus weighed in against lower American rates today, saying it would be imprudent for the Federal Reserve to cut rates further. In remarks clearly aimed at the United States, he said: "Some will tell you that it could be safe now to relax monetary discipline and so give a boost to activity, because inflation has been subdued, if not quite defeated. But this would be the most serious mistake we could make today."
In brief remarks to open the meeting, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady rejected the idea that American rates should be higher. He said, "When interest rates remain high for whatever reason," that hurts growth by discouraging businesses from borrowing to expand.
 
Third-World Perspective
 Speaking for the developing world, Mohammed Berrada, the head of Morocco's central bank and chairman of the I.M.F.-World Bank meeting, chided the United States and other industrial nations for their budget deficits. He said the deficits reduced the global pool of investment money that the developing world and former Communist countries could use to build their economies. He added that deficits pushed up long-term interest rates, increasing the third world's debt burden.
Mr. Berrada said, "It is more crucial than ever for government policies to display a consistent and overarching vision that takes account of the repercussions of such policies on other countries."
Regarding the former Communist countries, Mr. Camdessus said their transition to a market economy "is urgent and daunting." He noted that there have been setbacks, most notably inflationary pressures, and even the threat of prices increases of more than 1,000 percent a year.
Despite the pain that market-oriented reforms are causing, he urged a full-speed-ahead approach. "Full transformation will take time," he said, "but that is a good reason to start immediately, and to take advantage of the dynamism and enthusiasm of the present period to create, irreversibly, the basic structures of a market economy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, right, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, and Robin Leigh-Pemberton, governor of the Bank of England, at meeting of the International Monetary Fund yesterday in Washington. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GERMANY UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CREDIT BUDGET DEFICITS (94%); BUDGETS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INFLATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CANDESSUS, MICHEL ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



719 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Decline Broadly, Led by Auto Issues

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The stock market declined broadly yesterday as investors sold auto stocks and executed computerized selling strategies to siphon profits from blue-chip companies.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 39.98 points, or 1.2 percent, to 3,280.85. Volume on the Big Board grew to 187 million shares from 153.9 million Monday. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by 12 to 5. 
 Walter Murphy, senior international market specialist for Merrill Lynch, said declines of this nature "are kind of reflective of the uncertainty in the market."
In recent weeks, analysts have expressed worries about an array of economic and political events that have clouded the investment horizon.
Stocks fell slightly after the opening bell, but prices plunged in heavy computerized selling after an analyst for Wertheim Schroder issued negative comments on major auto makers, predicting slow sales because of the distressed economy. In addition, General Motors pared its forecast of fourth-quarter output by about 27,000 vehicles because of sluggish demand.
Chrysler, the most actively traded issue on the Big Board, eased 5/8, to 23 3/8, while G.M. was off 1 1/4, to 33, and Ford Motor sank 2 3/8, to 40 1/4.
Eugene Peroni, analyst for Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia, said prices of auto stocks had been slowly rising in recent months, which created a selling opportunity for some traders.
 
Cashing In the Blue Chips
 Profit taking also hit other blue chips. Coca-Cola, among the most actives, drppped 2 1/2, to 42 1/4, in heavy trading after managers told analysts they expect slow growth.
Other stocks among the Dow Jones industrials were also struck: Allied- Signal, off 2 at 52 3/4, and I.B.M., down 1 1/8 at 83 1/4. Investors are starting to shift funds into cyclical issues, companies whose fortunes closely track economic cycles, Mr. Peroni said.
The selling came despite a relatively positive domestic economic development: The Commerce Department said housing starts rose 10.4 percent in August, the sharpest increase in 18 months. Analysts found a sour tone in the upbeat report -- applications for building permits, a key indicator of future construction activity, fell 1.6 percent, to a 1.06 million annual rate.
The strong housing report unnerved the Treasury bond market, which interpreted the figures as a sign the Government would be less inclined to cut interest rates further.
The Treasury's 30-year issue was off 1 3/8 points while the yield rose to 7.46 percent, from 7.34 percent late Monday. Bonds' decline was another factor in the stock market's retreat, Mr. Peroni said.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); BIG BOARD (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: BIG BOARD (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (85%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); HOUSING STARTS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); BUILDING PERMITS (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: EUGENE PERONI (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



720 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Recycling Facing Test in Poorer Areas

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Hector Valentin eagerly lifted the lid of a blue bin in the parking lot of the St. Nicholas Houses in Harlem. He peered inside, hoping to discover a 1990's kind of valuable: recyclable cans, bottles and plastics. But it was empty.
A few days after New York City expanded its recycling program to all of Manhattan, the 2,500 tenants of the housing project at 215 West 127th Street had not begun using the blue containers. And Mr. Valentin, the superintendent of the project, said he could not predict when pilgrimages to the bins would become as much a part of residents' daily rituals as checking their mailboxes or brushing their teeth. 
 How will New York City's new recycling initiative, the most aggressive in the nation, fare in neighborhoods like Harlem, where many residents may be struggling with more pressing issues, like crime, poverty or unemployment? Amid so many worries, will people find the time and energy to sort their trash?
"It's going to be very difficult in poorer neighborhoods," said Steven M. Polan, a former New York City Sanitation Commissioner. "People who have incredible pressure from the basics of daily existence are obviously going to be less interested in recycling. But I don't want to broadbrush either. There have been success stories in poor neighborhoods as well."
 
Expanding to 5 Boroughs
 After years of halting efforts, the city's recycling program entered high gear last week when all Manhattan residents were required to sort their trash for six materials: newspapers, magazines, corrugated cardboard, glass, metals and foils, and plastics. The program, which began in Manhattan on Sept. 14 and was already under way on Staten Island, will expand to the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens by September 1993.
As part of a new solid-waste management plan that includes construction of a controversial incinerator at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, the city hopes to be recycling 42 percent of its trash by the year 2000. Currently, it recycles about 13 percent. The city has mandated a six-month grace period during which it will not fine recycling violators.
City officials acknowledge that the new initiative will fare better in some areas than others, but they insist that even in a neighborhood like central Harlem, where 41 percent of the population receives some form of public assistance, income level is only one factor in determining whether people will recycle.
They emphasize that residents of poor areas often face serious sanitation problems, like garbage strewn across sidewalks and abandoned lots, so they may be more sensitive to recycling. For example, Community District 10, which encompasses central Harlem, says only 54 percent of its streets were acceptably clean in 1990, compared with the city average of 82 percent.
 
Degrees of Cooperation
 "Our experience is not that rich people recycle and poor people don't," said Emily Lloyd, the city's Sanitation Commissioner. "We have blocks or buildings that are very affluent and we have had a hard time getting them going and we've had blocks and buildings that are not affluent and are very enthusiastic. You can't just predict it on that basis at all."
Along 125th Street in Harlem the other day, many people said they had heard of the new recycling requirements from news reports. They expressed optimism that the new initiative would take hold, but they also said that success would depend on whether tenants in buildings banded together.
"Everybody has to participate for it to work," said Edythe Reyes, a 29-year-old student who lives in a city-owned building housing project at 242 West 112th Street near Frederick Douglass Boulevard. "But it will really be a struggle. This is a really drug-infested neighborhood. The drug addicts, all they care about is their next high. They don't care about recycling."
As she relaxed in the plaza of the Adam Clayton Powell Jr. State Office Building, Candee Hueston-Ogiamien said assumptions about recycling problems in neighborhoods like Harlem failed to consider the variety of housing. In high-rise projects, she said, tenants might skirt the rules because superintendents usually cannot identify who did not sort their trash. But in smaller buildings, like her 10-unit brownstone at 2113 Fifth Avenue near 130th Street, there is more pressure to comply.
 
Facing Other Concerns
 "In our building, we know each other by first name," said Ms. Hueston-Ogiamien, a 43-year-old graduate student. "We have a family atmosphere and everybody looks after each other. So if Lorenzo does not separate his trash, we say, 'Lorenzo, get down here and take care of this!' "
But Jack J. Mobley, who publishes a monthly community newsletter called Uptown, said too many residents in the neighborhood were alienated from government to care about recycling. And he wondered why the city was planning to spend so much money on the new initiative -- up to $300 million by 1996 -- when other worries, like unemployment, were eating away at Harlem.
"A lot of people are not going to be that concerned because they have other things on their minds," said Mr. Mobley, 44. "Times are tough. You have to alleviate the basic problems before you start concentrating on cleaning up the trash. How do you expect people to pay attention when they have no jobs?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: New York City's new recycling initiative is off to a slow start. Hector Valentin, the superintendent of the St. Nicholas Houses project in Harlem, stood next to a brand new bin that has yet to be used. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC) UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); CITIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



721 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Dan Lacey, Editor, Is Dead at 42; Analyzed Unemployment Trends

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Dan Lacey, an authority on changes in the American work force, especially on the wave of cutbacks made by companies in recent years, died on Monday in Westlake, Ohio. He was 42 years old.
Mr. Lacey died of a heart attack, said his wife, Margaret. 
 Mr. Lacey, the editor of the Workplace Trends newsletter, monitored and compiled the numbers of layoffs, early retirement programs and other work-force cuts at American corporations using a method that was more timely and comprehensive than Government statistics. Mr. Lacey found that in the latter months of 1991, for example, staff cuts reached the pace of 2,600 for each working day, a widely quoted statistic that emphasized the magnitude of job losses.
Beyond tracking the phenomenon, Mr. Lacey also studied the causes of the labor cutbacks. He was often interviewed as a labor-market expert by network television news programs, newspapers and magazines.
In the current issue of Time magazine, Mr. Lacey was one of the several experts assembled by the magazine to offer their views on the state of the American economy and the outlook. He was also a consultant to corporations on personnel issues.
An advocate of the need for worker training, Mr. Lacey believed that one of the reasons for the widespread staff cutbacks by American companies was that neither the government nor companies had provided many workers with the skills necessary to compete in an advanced economy open to foreign rivals.
 
Self-Trained Analyst
 Mr. Lacey was a self-trained analyst of trends in the United States economy. He studied at Ohio State University, but did not hold a bachelor's degree. He began his career as a newspaper reporter, starting at 18 years old as a copy boy for The Times-Leader in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., his hometown. He later worked as a reporter for Scranton Times in Scranton, Pa., The Miami Herald and The Cleveland Press until it went out of business.
In 1988, Mr. Lacey founded the newsletter Workplace Trends, which is published six times a year. He was the author of three books, "The Paycheck Disruption: Finding Success in the Workplace of the '90's," "The Essential Immigrant" and "Your Rights in the Workplace." He was an editor of "Work in the 21st Century."
In addition to his wife, Mr. Lacey is survived by his parents, Harold and Florence, of Wilkes-Barre; his sister, Cynthia Silverman of York, Pa., and his brother, Harold Jr., of Hershey, Pa.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dan Lacey (Roger Mastroianni, 1992)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); YORK, PA, USA (76%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); YORK, PA, USA (76%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); LAYOFFS (90%); DEATHS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (90%); WRITERS (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); STATISTICS (70%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (68%); IMMIGRATION (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%); 

PERSON: LACEY, DAN; LOHR, STEVE DAN LACEY (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



722 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
With Sales Flat, Coke Has Clear Plan

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
Against the backdrop of a gloomy third-quarter sales forecast made to analysts yesterday in New York, the Coca-Cola Company is going New Age.
Following a host of competitors, Coke announced plans yesterday to sell Nordic Mist, a flavored sparkling water. 
 The announcement, however, was overshadowed by Coke's disclosure that its worldwide case sales would be flat for the third quarter. Analysts had been expecting volume to be up by 5 percent, and Coke's stock fell $2.50 to close at $42.25 in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
"Coca-Cola's news is not encouraging," Michael J. Branca, an analyst with County NatWest USA, said of the company's sales forecast. The company blamed the weak economies of Brazil and Britain for the softness of its overseas shipments in the quarter ending this month.
In addition, the cold, rainy summer in the United States and Japan also held down third-quarter sales.
Coke officials said volume in the United States would likely be flat or up only slightly for the first nine months of the year. Still, the company said its earnings per share would grow by 18 percent to 20 percent for the year.
George Thompson, an analyst with Prudential Securities, said Coke would make up for volume weakness overseas by cutting marketing expenditures.
With slow sales domestically, Coke and Pepsi are increasingly willing to enter niches they would have ignored as too small in the past. In addition to so-called New Age drinks, which accounts for only about $1 billion in sales in the $48 billion soft-drink market, both Coke and Pepsi are also pursing ice tea and sports drinks.
Although soft drink sales have been sluggish, the demand for fruity, clear drinks -- New Age beverages in industry-speak -- exploded last year. Sales of the drinks jumped by 18 percent in 1991, making them the fastest growing type of drink, said Hellen Berry, vice president of marketing for the Beverage Marketing Corporation.
"This is a growth area, and we are going to be there," said Pierre Ferrari, senior vice president of marketing for Coca-Cola USA.
The growth has attracted a lot of competition. Pepsi recently introduced several, a clear cola, Crystal Pepsi, and H2oH!, a flavored sparkling water. Seagram's recently introduced Quest, a low-calorie sparkling water.
The big beverage makers were attracted by the success of the Clearly Canadian Beverage Company, which sells a popular line of sparkling fruit drinks. The stock of Clearly Canadian, which is facing an increasingly crowded field of bigger and bigger competitors, fell 37.5 cents, to $11.625, in over-the-counter trading.
Nordic Mist will initially be introduced in New York, Philadelphia, Boston and Pittsburgh, and will be in most of the country by next summer. The drink will come in five fruit flavors. It is sweetened and caffeine free. An 11-ounce bottle will cost about $1 in delicatessans and other stores.
Based on its ingredients and caloric content, Nordic Mist is closer to a traditional soft drink than a sparkling water. A 12-ounce Coke has 144 calories, while an 11-ounce bottle of Nordic Mist has 112 calories.
Absent caramel coloring, its ingredients -- high-fructose corn syrup, citric acid and potassium benzoate -- are similar to the raw materials of a cola or other sugared soft drinks.
"It's soft drinks in disguise," Jack Trout of Trout & Ries, a marketing firm in Greenwich, Conn., said of New Age beverages.
Mr. Branca, the analyst with County NatWest, said a more accurate name was "fruit-flavored soft drinks," He added, "New age is a baloney kind of phrase."
 
Saturation Marketing
 The interest of the cola giants, Coke and Pepsi, gives the category a certain legitimacy and is likely to make the growth rate accelerate. Distribution muscle is the key to success in the beverage industry and other than Pepsi, competitors cannot match Coke's extensive reach.
Gatorade is experiencing first-hand Coke's ability to saturate a market. Powerade, Coke's new sports drink, is being introduced in different cities around the country. Over the weekend, for example, Coke representatives stocked the drink in stores in New Orleans.
"On Monday morning, our competitor woke up to discover that we had 36 percent of the shelf space," in stores in New Orleans, said M. Douglas Ivestor, president of Coca-Cola U.S.A.
The Nordic Mist name is supposed to evoke, healthful pure images. Although several people have said they think the name sounds like a perfume, some marketing experts said the Nordic Mist name was likely to attract consumers. "I think of tall, lithesome, gorgeous blondes cavorting in the snow," said Kenneth Love, a partner with Anspach, Grossman, & Portugal, an identity consulting firm.
While Coke has demonstrated an ability to manage its profits, investors are increasingly concerned that the company will have trouble meeting its long-term overseas growth target of 10 percent a year on average.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nordic Mist, Coca-Cola's new fruit-flavored sparkling water. (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (95%); BEVERAGE MARKETING CORP (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOTTLED WATER; SOFT DRINKS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS SALES FIGURES (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (89%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BEVERAGE MFG (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); SPORTS DRINKS (73%); SHIPMENTS (73%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (70%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



723 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 26; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Bank Money Market Yields And C.D. Rates Off in Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields of bank money market accounts and certificates of deposit fell in the latest reporting week, which ended today, according to The Bank Rate Monitor, a publication that tracks interest rates.
Analysts at the publication said, however, that the decline was not as sharp as in the previous weeks. They said one explanation could be that banks believed the Federal Reserve might have placed further rate cuts on hold. 
 Robert K. Heady, publisher of The Monitor, said bank deposit rates and loan rates were set based on expectations.
 
Treasury Bills Up
 At the Treasury's weekly auction of three- and six-month bills Monday, rates rose as prices came under pressure from uncertainty in the market, caused in part by the turmoil in Europe.
The Treasury auction is regarded as a reliable barometer of how banks could eventually set deposit rates in the weeks ahead. On Monday the average rate at the auction for a three-month bill was 2.91 percent, up three basis points from last week. The six-month bill rose to 2.93 percent, up three basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point.
The overall average New York-area yield on money market accounts fell a basis point, to 2.91 percent, in the reporting week and the rate on three-month and six-month certificates of deposit fell 2 basis points each, to 2.93 percent and 3.10 percent, respectively.
At commercial banks, yields of money market accounts and three-month certificates each fell a basis point, to 2.74 percent and 2.79 percent, respectively. Six-month certificates of deposit at commercial banks remained unchanged, at 2.93 percent.
 
Savings Rates Off
 At savings banks, three-month certificates declined 3 basis points, to 3.08 percent, and six-month certificates fell 4 basis points, to 3.27 percent. Money market accounts at savings banks lost one basis point, to 3.08 percent.
The largest yield adjustments in the New York area in the week were at First Fidelity in New Jersey, which dropped its money market account by 15 basis points, to 3 percent. Dime Savings and Fleet Bank in Connecticut both cut their certificate rates by 16 basis points. The Dime's three-month certificate is now at 2.90 percent, and Fleet's six-month certificate is at 3.14 percent.
Outside the New York area, yields at 20 large banks surveyed were also down, with money market accounts and six-month certificates both off 2 basis points, to 2.77 percent and 2.95 percent, respectively.
 


GRAPHIC: Annual effective yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, Sept. 23, 1992. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yields are based on the method of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.

 	 	 	 		Money	3-mo.	6-mo.	New York Area	Mkt.	C.D.	C.D.	 	 	 	 	COMMERCIAL BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Banco Popular	3.30	2.79	2.89	Bank of N.Y.	2.69	2.69	2.79	Bank of Tokyo Trust	2.28	2.30	2.40	Chase Manhattan	2.58	2.69	2.74	Chemical	2.53	2.65	2.70	Citibank	2.55	2.55	2.70	Conn. Nat'l Bank	2.89	2.94	3.20	EAB	2.69	2.89	2.94	First Fidelity (N.J.)	3.00	3.25	3.50	Fleet Bank (Conn)	2.65	3.04	3.14	Key Bank of N.Y.	2.82	2.58	3.04	Marine Midland	2.58	2.58	2.63	Midlantic Bank (N.J.)	3.05	3.20	3.50	Nat'l Westminster	2.69	2.74	2.79	Republic Nat'l	2.74	2.94	2.99	 	 	 	 	SAVINGS BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Anchor Savings	3.10	3.05	3.25	Apple Bank Savings	2.89	2.69	2.90	Astoria Fed Savings	2.94	3.14	3.19	Carteret Savings (N.J.)	3.30	3.50	3.70	Crossland Savings	3.05	3.05	3.25	Dime Savings Bank	3.06	2.90	3.15	Emigrant Savings	3.05	3.00	3.15	First Fed (Rochester)	3.05	3.10	3.15	First Nationwide	3.00	2.85	2.98	Greater NY Savings	3.00	3.00	3.20	Green Point Savings	3.10	N.O.	3.30	Home Savings Amer	3.09	2.94	3.15	Howard Savings (N.J.)	3.10	3.25	3.75	Hudson City SB (N.J.)	3.56	3.75	3.80	People's Bank (Conn.)	2.94	2.94	3.15	
 	 	 	 	 		Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.	Major Banks Outside N.Y.	Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg.	 	 	 	 	 	Bank of Boston	2.94	-0.10	3.04	0.00	Bank One Texas (Dallas)	2.68	0.00	2.85	0.00	Citibank, S.D.	2.55	-0.11	3.20	-0.10	Fidelity Bank (Philadelphia)	3.10	0.00	3.15	0.00	First Bank (Minnesota)	2.53	-0.05	2.75	-0.05	First Interstate (L.A.)	2.90	0.00	2.83	0.00	First National (Chicago)	2.74	0.00	2.84	0.00	First Union (Charlotte, N.C.)	2.89	0.00	2.66	+0.01	Fleet Bank (Boston)	2.78	0.00	3.15	0.00	Maryland Natl	2.95	-0.15	3.20	-0.15	Mellon (Pittsburgh)	3.04	0.00	2.75	0.00	Meridian Bank (Reading Pa)	2.54	0.00	3.10	-0.05	NationsBank (Atlanta)	2.69	0.00	3.07	-0.02	National Bank (Detroit)	3.04	0.00	3.00	0.00	NCNB Tampa	2.50	0.00	2.95	0.00	Seafirst (Seattle)	2.75	0.00	3.00	-0.20	Shawmut Bank (Boston)	2.79	-0.05	3.05	0.00	Texas Commerce (Houston)	2.53	0.00	2.58	0.00	Union Bank (S.F.)	2.84	0.00	2.84	0.00	Wachovia (Winston Salem, N.C.)	2.80	0.00	2.90	0.00	
 
N.A. Rate not available; N.O. Not offered
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach 33408)

Table: "Bank Money Accounts"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); MINNESOTA, USA (59%); 

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); READING, PA, USA (74%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (59%); DALLAS, TX, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: FLEET BANK-NH (52%); NEW YORK (77%); DIME SAVINGS&FLEET BANK (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (77%); DIME SAVINGS&FLEET BANK (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (56%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); MINNESOTA, USA (59%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); READING, PA, USA (74%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (59%); DALLAS, TX, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BONDS (79%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



724 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS: Merck as a Benchmark;
Taking the Measure Of the Biotech Field

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
The youthful biotech industry continues to expand at a clip most businesses can only envy in 1992's slow growth economy. But it is still several years away from profitability, according to an annual survey released yesterday by the accounting firm Ernst & Young.
G. Steven Burrill and Kenneth B. Lee Jr., the San Francisco-based authors of the survey, said the total number of biotech companies grew 11 percent, to 1,231, in the year ending June 30. Industry employment expanded to 79,000, an increase of 13 percent. 
 Total revenues, including royalties and contract research payments, increased 28 percent, to $8.1 billion, while product sales grew 35 percent, to $5.9 billion. Net losses were also up, climbing 32 percent, to $3.4 billion, a reflection of the continual heavy investment required for building new businesses.
Mr. Burrill and Mr. Lee, employing a benchmark popular among biotech analysts, included a comparison of the entire fledgling industry with Merck & Company, the prototype of the successful, multinational pharmaceutical enterprise that many of the biotech companies dream of becoming.
Merck's 1991 sales of $8.6 billion were slightly higher than the biotech industry's, and the $2.1 billion in profits was an obvious contrast. But in terms of the market value of stock shares, Merck's $60 billion (based on prices this summer) was reasonably close to the $50 billion combined market value of the 225 publicly traded biotech companies.
By this measure, many analysts feel that it is the money-losing biotech companies, not Merck, that are undervalued. They ask which is likely to produce higher earnings growth in the future -- a biotech industry that last year spent $4.9 billion on research and development and has hundreds of products in the pipeline, or Merck, which spent $988 million and has a more modest new-product portfolio under development?
Of course, Merck has a few valuable weapons in its arsenal, like experience and marketing muscle -- not to mention the financial clout to acquire plenty of products that it does not invent itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG MERCK & CO INC (85%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ERNST & YOUNG

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (95%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J KENNETH B LEE JR (65%); G STEVEN BURRILL (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



725 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Japanese G.N.P. Gains A Scant 0.3% in Quarter

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 22

 BODY:
In a sign that Japan's recession is biting, the nation's economy grew a paltry three-tenths of 1 percent in the second quarter of this year, the Government reported today.
But the weak economic report did not stop the Japanese yen from strengthening today against the dollar and European currencies. Tokyo trading closed with the dollar worth 122.67 yen, down 1.33 yen from Monday's close. 
 [In New York trading, the dollar fell to a record low against the yen, settling at 121.02 yen, down from 123.75 on Monday. In earlier trading in London, the dollar closed at 121.45 yen.]
Traders said the yen was being viewed as a safe haven for traders wanting to flee the turmoil in European currencies. They also said the yen was being bolstered by the uncertain outlook for the American economy and by speculation about additional cuts in interest rates in the United States and Germany.
 
Stock Market Advances
 As for the stock market here, today's weak economic report did not keep share prices from rising. The Nikkei index of 225 issues gained 216.48 points. or 1.2 percent, to close at 18,282.72. Financial markets will be closed here on Wednesday for Autumnal Equinox Day, a national holiday.
The quarterly rise of three-tenths of 1 percent in the gross national product translates to an annual rate of 1.1 percent a year and represents a sharp drop from the first quarter, when the G.N.P. grew 1.1 percent, or at an annual rate of 4.3 percent.
While in most countries a recession means an actual shrinkage in the economy, Japan's economy has generally continued to grow through the economic slump, but at far lower levels than normal.
But the figures for the second quarter, which ended in June, show virtually no growth. Consumer spending was unchanged from the previous quarter while corporate investment continued to decline, according to the Economic Planning Agency.
The latest G.N.P. figure will make it virtually impossible for Japan to meet the Government's official target of 3.5 percent growth this year, a goal that private economists had long since dismissed as unrealistic.
 
Rescue Package in Place
 But officials of the Economic Planning Agency said today that they thought that the second quarter would prove to be the worst for the economy, in part because an economic rescue package announced last month would soon begin to take effect.
The $86 billion pump-priming package, the largest such effort in the nation's history, will try to revive growth by increasing public-works spending and providing incentives for business investment.
But many economists say the effects of the plan will not really be felt until 1993. And while public-works spending can help the economy, they say, true recovery will not come until corporations finish cutting excess inventories and manpower and see their profits rise again, allowing them to increase their capital spending. That corporate healing process might take a year.
Some Government officials are already saying that if last month's rescue package fails to achieve the targeted growth rate, additional measures will have to be considered. These will probably include a cut in income taxes, a move that is already being called for by some business groups. Further increases in public spending may also be considered, even if that means a national budget deficit.
 
Slump in Auto Industry

In another piece of bad economic news, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association said today that domestic production of cars fell 11.2 percent in August from a year earlier while overall vehicle production, including trucks and buses, fell 12.7 percent. Domestic sales of vehicles plunged 15.3 percent from a year earlier and exports fell 5 percent.
While vehicle production and domestic demand have been falling all year, the August drop was particularly steep. Most major auto companies have cut back to one shift a day at many of their factories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC PLANNING AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC PLANNING AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); INVENTORIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BONDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (62%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (51%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



726 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
A Diamond-Coated Tool Etches the Tortuous Path of New Technologies

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
Last spring, the Kingsbury Corporation had an unhappy customer. The metal-cutting machinery Kingsbury had built for an Alabama maker of brass water-meter housings had failed to perform as well as the company had promised.
"The brass just chewed up the carbide tools the machinery used," recalled James L. Koontz, president and chief executive of Kingsbury, a Keene, N.H., machine tool company. 
 In the end, Kingsbury cobbled together a setup the customer could live with by adding new cutting tools and holders and changing the way the parts were fed into the machinery. But Mr. Koontz recalls the incident as an exercise in frustration rather than a triumph of ingenuity. His first choice would have been simply to insert a new type of diamond-coated tool that he had obtained for testing from the National Center for Manufacturing Sciences.
 
 
Technologies Without Support
 "It cut through the brass like butter," he said. Unfortunately, no suppliers are producing the new cutter in the commercial quantities needed by Mr. Koontz's customers. Kingsbury's inability to exploit the technology cost the company time and about $50,000, and left its customer with a less productive machine than it wanted.
The episode is hardly without precedent in today's manufacturing circles, where niche technologies often go begging for development dollars, and even those that easily attract investment tend to mature slower than their champions had hoped. Each delay in the adoption of a new technology may be no more than an economic pinprick, but the cumulative effect saps the nation's competitiveness, manufacturing experts say.
"The Japanese deploy advanced technology 400 percent faster than we do," said Edward A. Miller, executive director of the National Center for Manufacturing Sciences, a five-year-old cooperative research organization based in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 
 
A Speedup Isn't Easy
 A look at why Kingsbury -- or General Motors, for that matter -- cannot yet buy such tools reveals that there are no simple ways to speed the process of creating technologies and converting them into commercial products.
Indeed, the diamond-coated tools that captured Mr. Koontz's interest are actually on a development fast track, having moved in three years from concept to large-scale testing this fall at G.M. and Chrysler. Industrial use of thin films of synthetic diamonds has been a hot area of research in recent years, as everyone from microchip makers to optics companies are searching for new ways to exploit the diamonds' extraordinary combination of hardness, heat conduction, slickness, transparency and electrical resistance.
Diamond-coated tools were singled out in 1989 for attention by the National Center for Manufacturing Sciences. The center, which relies on Government and private-sector financing, provided more than $1 million for a development program that brought together potential customers, tool suppliers and companies with expertise in making diamond films.
The center was tackling a problem that had already absorbed tens of millions of dollars in research and development investment for some 40 years in the Soviet Union, Japan and the United States. The center decided to focus on a narrow but particularly difficult challenge: finding a way to apply thin films of diamonds to tungsten carbide tools -- the strongest tools in widespread use.
Metal-cutting shops can already buy such carbide tools tipped with polycrystalline diamonds. But these P.C.D. tools, as they are known, are expensive -- between $50 and $100 each, compared with a few dollars for a noncoated carbide tool tip. The polycrystalline versions, of course, are intended to be used many more times before they need to be replaced.
The synthetic diamonds are "grown" in small sizes at high temperatures and pressures and then brazed onto the part of the tool, known as the insert, that goes into the toolholder on the cutting machine.
An alternative marketed by a handful of Japanese tool companies and by Norton Inc., an American subsidiary of Compagnie de Saint-Gobain of France, is made at much lower cost. These toolmakers create coated tools in small gas chambers. They use microwaves or other energy sources to create chemical reactions in methane or similar gases that result in films of diamond forming on the surfaces of the metal tool inserts.
But the chemical vapor deposition, or C.V.D., processes used by these companies have the annoying drawback of producing films that tend to chip away easily, say Mr. Koontz and others in the industry. That is because most carbide-based tools include up to 15 percent cobalt to make them less brittle. The cobalt tends to interfere with the bonding of diamonds to the surface in ways that are not yet fully understood.
The research sponsored by the manufacturing sciences center appears to have overcome the adhesion problem using C.V.D. technology developed by Crystallume Inc., a start-up company in Menlo Park, Calif. (Crystallume declines to describe its technique until a patent is issued.)
In tests conducted by Elmer Harbert, senior manufacturing engineer at the Allison Gas Turbine division of General Motors in Indianapolis, Crystallume's C.V.D. diamond-coated carbide blade made 21 eight-inch-long cuts in a high-strength aluminum compound used in engine blocks before wearing out. Other C.V.D. diamond-coated carbides cracked in less that two passes, he said, and carbide tools with other coatings failed to complete a single cut.
The aluminum-390, as the compound is known, contains enough silicon, the basic element of sand, to make it extremely abrasive. "Aluminum-390 normally eats tools for breakfast, lunch and dinner," Mr. Harbert said
Despite the success at Allison Gas Turbine and the enthusiasm of potential users like Mr. Koontz, no tool company has rushed to make the relatively modest investment of $8 million or so that it will take to mass-produce the new cutting tools, which are expected to sell for perhaps $25 to $50 each.
So far, the only potential supplier to commit itself publicly to moving forward is Crystallume. The agreement with the manufacturing sciences center prevents Crystallume from selling the technology to foreign manufacturers, but it does allow the company to sell coated products to them.
Crystallume plans to build clones of its prototype diamond-coating chamber in sufficient numbers to allow production of "tens of thousands" of coated tools by next year, said Laurie Conner, vice president of marketing and sales. But Crystallume is at least two years away from building its own large-scale manufacturing operation, and the manufacturing sciences center's negotiations to license established toolmakers have yet to result in any announced competition.
Experts in technology development say it is no surprise that established toolmakers are moving cautiously. Every new technology raises questions about performance and cost and where it will fit into each supplier's product strategy. Technologies that look like clear home runs in every respect are extremely rare.
One common barrier to commercialization of new technologies is that some potential suppliers may believe that other approaches that are as good or better are in the wings. That is a leading reason Kennametal Inc., the largest domestic machine toolmaker, has stayed out of the group organized by the manufacturing sciences center and is not ready to embrace its results.
"We have been looking at three different processes for depositing diamond on tools," said David Arnold, chief technical officer of Kennametal. "It wasn't clear that theirs would justify dropping what we are working on, and I can't afford a fourth project."
 
'Real Practical Problems'
 More fundamentally, most technologies require further development work even after promising test results are in hand.
"No one's holding back in this case, but there are real practical problems," said Deepak Baht, manager of advanced coatings development at GTE Valenite, a toolmaker in Troy, Mich., that is a unit of the GTE Corporation and part of the manufacturing sciences group. "The how-to of adhesion is now well known, but we still don't know exactly why it works. That makes scaling up to commercial production hard."
Teledyne Firth Sterling, a smaller toolmaker based in La Vergne, Tenn., has also been part of the consortium and also wants to see more tests before committing to commercial production.
 
 
Patent Uncertainties
 Currently, Crystallume's process can simultaneously coat up to six inserts over 24 hours. But toolmakers will have to coat hundreds of inserts at once for the process to be economically attractive, said Jerry Reimann, the center's project manager for diamond research.
Patent uncertainties and questions about the size of the potential market also affect the pace of investment in many technologies, including diamond films. Executives of toolmakers say the market for diamond-coated cutting inserts may be only about $50 million a year, although the extension of the technology beyond cutting devices to drilling tools is likely, meaning a potentially larger market.
Mr. Harbert expects the momentum to pick up this autumn after G.M. and Chrysler complete two months of production line tests of tools made with the Crystallume process. "That," Mr. Harbert said, "should prove the market exists."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The triangular diamond-coated cutting tool, which measures 13/16 inch by 3/16 inch. The cutting side, enlarged below, shows the film of diamonds on the surface. (G. T. E. Valenite Corporation); The cutting tool, right, at work in an aluminum shaft. (Fred Mertz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CENTER FOR MANUFACTURING SCIENCES INC (93%); KINGSBURY CORP (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MACHINE TOOLS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); COMPUTER CHIPS (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J JAMES L KOONTZ (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



727 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 27; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
A Market That's Educated, Affluent and Homosexual

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
AFTER listening to Republican Party attacks on homosexuals as having made "a wrong choice," many of America's largest marketers are making a different choice. Rather than being daunted by the campaign rhetoric, they are instead accelerating efforts at aiming sales messages at gay and lesbian consumers.
Blue-chip companies like Benetton, CBS, Hiram Walker, Philip Morris, Seagram and Time Warner are pursuing that unconventional strategy for the same reason that polls indicate few voters appear interested in Republican appeals to "family values" -- the economy. 
 "For a lot of people, the main concern right now is surviving in a tough economic climate," said Doug Alligood, vice president of special markets at BBDO New York. "When that happens, people get liberal in a hurry."
So if consumer product companies "find a market that's educated, affluent and can be reached through targeted media," Mr. Alligood continued, "there's no reason to be concerned about the politics."
Stephanie K. Blackwood, president at Blackwood & Friends, a New York public relations firm specializing in gay and lesbian marketing, said, "Rhetoric is one thing and recessions are another."
The affluence of homosexuals -- their annual earnings are estimated at $514 billion by Overlooked Opinions, a Chicago research firm -- "is the reason why Hiram Walker is interested in that market," she added. In Boston, Miami and New York, the company is testing a comprehensive marketing campaign aimed at homosexuals, for six brands including Courvoisier, Drambuie and Opal Nera.
As widespread as such efforts are becoming, they are, of course, by no means universal. Hundreds of major marketers still omit homosexuals from their plans, in important product categories like automobiles, fast food and soft drinks.
And some companies involved in the market are reticent about discussing the topic. Asked about Seagram's decision to advertise Somers gin, a test brand, in Out, a magazine for homosexuals, a spokeswoman in New York said that while "the gay market is an influential and trend-setting market," it is but "one factor in the overall audience, which is a very diverse audience."
And others involved in the market, like Gap Inc., refuse to discuss it. Mainstream advertising for its Gap retail chain mixes gay celebrities like the actor Ian McKellen with straight stars. And for its Banana Republic retail chain, ads in mainstream magazines and posters in stores include pairs of young men amid romantic couples.
One executive who has always been outspoken on the subject is Michel Roux, president and chief executive at Carillon Importers Ltd. in Teaneck, N.J., which markets brands like Absolut vodka.
He described himself as "not really worried about" attacks on homosexuals or on companies that market to them.
"Let me tell you something," he said. "I'm sure there are a lot of Republicans who are gay, too."
For gay men and lesbians of whatever political persuasion, Carillon is for the first time creating print advertisements specifically for a publication for homosexuals; previously, Carillon has used its mainstream ads in such publications.
In the Oct. 6 issue of The Advocate, celebrating the magazine's 25th anniversary, Carillon will sponsor "Absolut Symbols," a 16-page portfolio of works by gay and lesbian artists. Among the images: a gay marriage, a gay-pride parade -- even the 1969 Stonewall riots, considered the start of the modern homosexual-rights movement.
The Advocate's current issue is carrying ads from a first-time advertiser, CBS, promoting "The Kids in the Hall," a new late-night comedy series.
The network is not concerned about the "rhetorical warfare" over homosexuals, said George F. Schweitzer, senior vice president of CBS marketing and communications in New York, adding, "It clearly does not dictate our advertising positions."
Buying ad space in a homosexual publication "is not a political statement," he said. "It's an advertising strategy."
Another giant company eschewing a political motive for its entry into the market is Philip Morris U.S.A., which is including a smoker survey in Direct Male, a new direct-mail promotion being sent to 50,000 affluent gay male households. That follows a decision to include Genre, a magazine for homosexuals, among 58 publications in which ads appear for the company's new cigarette, Benson & Hedges Special Kings.
"Our market is adults who smoke," said a Philip Morris spokeswoman in New York, "and smokers come from all walks of life."
Among the other mainstream sponsors of Direct Male, produced by Winmark Concepts in Washington, are Berlitz International, the Conde Nast Collection, Time Warner's Quality Paperback Book Club, Warner-Lambert, and Interview and Men's Health magazines.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: A drawing by Steven Turk depicting the 1969 Stonewall riots, considered the start of the modern homosexual-rights movement, is part of "Absolut Symbols," a 16-page portfolio of works by gay and lesbian artists that will appear in the Oct. 6 issue of The Advocate. (Carillon Importers Ltd.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: GAP INC (81%); BBDO NEW YORK (56%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: HOMOSEXUALITY; ADVERTISING GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); TEST MARKETING (78%); POLITICS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CELEBRITIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); FAMILY (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (52%); COMPANY EARNINGS (51%); SOFT DRINKS (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



728 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 24; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Reaches Record Low Against the Yen in New York

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar declined sharply against the yen yesterday, hitting its lowest closing level ever against the Japanese currency, but settled mixed against the other currencies.
Gold prices settled mostly higher. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery closed at $348.80 an ounce, up $1.30 from Monday. The Republic National Bank said gold was up $1.10 an ounce, to $348.60. 
 Analysts said the dollar got off to a choppy start after the release of stronger-than-expected money supply figures in Germany. That led traders to speculate that the German central bank would not cut interest rates, and they sold the dollar.
But soon after, the Commerce Department said housing starts in the United States rose a robust 10.4 percent in August, the sharpest increase in 18 months. That, coupled with the continued turmoil among the European currencies, produced a wave of dollar-buying as dealers sought a safe haven, said Marc Chandler, an analyst with the advisory firm IDEA.
The dollar put in its worst performance against the yen. Many large Japanese investors are sheddding their holdings of European currencies and putting their money back into yen.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 122.67 yen, down 1.33 yen from Monday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 121.45 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 121.02 yen, down from 123.75 on Monday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.7045, from $1.7130 late Monday. In New York, it cost $1.6965 to buy a pound, down from $1.7085 on Monday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's rates, included: 1.4935 German marks, up from 1.4835; 1.3025 Swiss francs, down from 1.3030; 5.1045 French francs, up from 5.0750; 1,254.00 Italian lire, unchanged, and 1.2358 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2321.
Silver prices rose worldwide. On the Comex in New York, silver settled at $3.822 an ounce, compared with $3.807 on Monday. In London, silver rose to $3.84, from $3.81.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (58%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (95%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); HOUSING STARTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



729 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 26; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Kinark Will Take a Charge

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla., Sept. 22

 BODY:
The Kinark Corporation, a chemical company, said today that it would write off the balance of a note receivable on a hotel it sold last year, resulting in a charge of $1.14 million, or 31 cents a share, in the third quarter.
Kinark, which sold the 350-room Tulsa-based Camelot Inn for $1.25 million in January 1991, said it had decided to write off the balance of the note because of the property's poor operating performance. 
 "The cash flow was just not there," a Kinark spokeswoman said. "The hotel economy in this part of the country just isn't very good."
For the third quarter a year ago, the company posted net income of $1.9 million, or 42 cents a share, on revenue of $8.7 million.
The company's shares hit a a 52-week low on the American Stock today, falling 50 cents, to $4.50.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGA (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332812 METAL COATING, ENGRAVING (EXCEPT JEWELRY & SILVERWARE) & ALLIED SERVICES TO MANUFACTURERS (93%); SIC3479 COATING, ENGRAVING, & ALLIED SERVICES, NEC (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (90%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CAMELOT INN; KINARK CORP AZZ GALVANIZING SERVICES (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMELOT INN; KINARK CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OKLAHOMA, USA (90%); TULSA, OK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); CASH FLOW (87%); CHEMICALS (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



730 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Book Notes

BYLINE: By Esther B. Fein

 BODY:

Salman Rushdie
When bookstores and libraries around the country begin observing Banned Book Week on Saturday, a week of activities and attention focusing on censorship around the world and through the ages, one of the most well-known modern writers on the list of unfortunately celebrated authors will be Salman Rushdie. Mr. Rushdie has lived in nomadic secrecy since February 1989, when his novel "The Satanic Verses" was declared blasphemous to Islam by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini of Iran and a multi-million dollar reward was offered for his execution.
Mr. Rushdie is venturing into the public more and more these days, doing impromptu readings at bookstores, addressing conventions on freedom of expression and human rights, conferring with Government officials in various countries. But everywhere he goes, he is surrounded by an elaborate security net and every public appearance, say the British authorities in charge of protecting him, poses a true threat to his life. 
 After the bounty on Mr. Rushdie's head was raised in June, and the Iranian foundation posting the reward offered to "cover expenses for the extermination of the cursed writer," in addition to having the bounty itself increased, Mr. Rushdie and the people who three years ago formed the Rushdie Defense Committee decided that they had to act more aggressively and openly to force Iran to end the execution decree.
"We can no longer use channels of quiet diplomacy," Mr. Rushdie said recently in a telephone interview. "We have to get sympathetic Governments to threaten Iran with economic sanctions and with being brought before the International Court of Justice in the Hague. Subtlety has been ineffective."
Frances D'Souza, the director of Article 19, a London-based international organization devoted to fighting censorship, said the relative impunity with which Iran has succeeded in "terrorizing Mr. Rushdie and others associated with the book" has led to a rise in censorship in other Islamic countries and in some countries in Africa and Southeast Asia.
As a founder of the Rushdie Defense Committee, she has set a goal of raising a million dollars by the end of this year, to finance the research and traveling necessary to accelerate the campaign to encourage Governments to pressure Iran to withdraw the decree against Mr. Rushdie.
"Do you realize that February will be four years since I was condemned," Mr. Rushdie said. "I am not resigned to living the rest of my life as fugitive for exercising my right to speak and write freely."
 
Howard Fast
 Howard Fast was never threatened with death for anything he wrote, but he was blacklisted in the 1950's by the Federal Bureau of Investigation after the House Committee on Un-American Activities accused him of writing Communist propaganda. At the time, he says now, he felt that the authorities might just as well have strangled him.
"It was sheer hell," said Mr. Fast, who had written a critically acclaimed autobiographical novel, "Citizen Tom Paine," before he was blacklisted, "Taking away a man's right to practice his art is nothing short of killing him."
Soon after he was blacklisted, Mr. Fast tried to publish his novel "Spartacus," the book upon which the film would be based, but no publisher would get involved with him. He finally decided to publish it himself, and the book became a best seller. Mr. Fast went on to publish books by other banned artists -- painters, poets, novelists -- but after hovering near what he described as "devastating poverty and near-bankruptcy," he got out of the self-publishing business and tried to return to writing full time.
He wrote a novel called "Sylvia," about a woman who escapes her impoverished childhood and becomes a successful member of high society whose millionaire fiance hires a private investigator to find out her history. But still, nobody would publish him. His agent, Paul Reynolds, finally suggested that he publish the novel under a pseudonym and as soon as he became E. V. Cunningham, the novel was published and then turned into the movie.
Mr. Fast went on to write 20 books under the pseudonym, though in France, where the F.B.I. blacklist didn't matter, each book came out under his real name. But through the years, "Sylvia" remained his favorite book, he said, and his anonymous connection to it became more painful.
"It was monstrous to see the book and not have my name associated with it," said Mr. Fast, who is now 78 years old, "and to know that no one would ever remember it as my work."
He said this one day at lunch with Hillel Black, the editor in chief of Carol Publishing, and last month the company's Birch Lane Press division published "Sylvia." For the first time the author was listed as Howard Fast.
"I feel relieved and redeemed," he said. "But it frightens me to know that our country is still not free of censorship when freedom of expression is an absolute necessity to any free society."
 
End Notes
 Dorothy Cannell begins her latest mystery, "Femmes Fatal" (Bantam), with a witty variation on the classic stereotype of a bad novel's opening line: "He was a dark and stormy knight." . . . The Rock Bottom Remainders, a band of best-selling authors who performed at the American Booksellers Convention in May in Anaheim, Calif., to raise money for literacy projects, are releasing a video of their musical performance. The band, which features among its members Stephen King, Amy Tan, Robert Fulghum, Dave Barry and Matt Groening, has boasted, "We play music as well as Metallica writes novels," but the amateur fun and enthusiasm is infectious. The 40-minute video, which is being released through BMG Video, includes performances of "Bye, Bye Love," "Teen Angel" and "Sea of Love," along with interviews of the authors and behind-the-scenes clips. Royalties are to benefit the Literacy Volunteers of America, the Homeless Coalition of Los Angeles and the Right to Rock Network. The video will be available in mid-October and will be sold through music and video stores. . . . Eight American writers will talk about the fate and the status of the novel at a panel discussion at 8 P.M. tomorrow at Town Hall Theater in midtown Manhattan. The authors who are to participate are Norman Mailer, Harold Brodkey, Michael Cunningham, Paule Marshall, Oscar Hijuelos, Norman Rush, Mona Simpson and Barbara Probst Solomon. The evening is sponsored by the Lannan Foundation, a private arts organization in Los Angeles, which as part of its literary program gives annual grants to writers of fiction, nonfiction and poetry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BOOK NOTES (TIMES COLUMN); SATANIC VERSES, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (54%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (54%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (54%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; CENSORSHIP BOOKSTORES (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); WRITERS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RELIGION (71%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: FEIN, ESTHER B; RUSHDIE, SALMAN; FAST, HOWARD SALMAN AHMED RUSHDIE (96%); AYATOLLAH RUHOLLAH KHOMEINI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



731 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
EXABYTE'S STOCK PLUNGES ON EARNINGS ESTIMATE

BYLINE: Bloomberg Business News

 BODY:
The shares of the Exabyte Corporation, a Boulder, Colo., computer company, plunged more than 38 percent yesterday after it announced that third-quarter results would fall well below analysts' expectations. The company blamed the continued worldwide recession in the computer-systems market for its weak results. Exabyte was the most active issue in all trading yesterday, with volume of about 9.5 million shares, and it was the second-biggest percentage decliner in over-the-counter trading, closing off 38.4 percent, or $9.125, at $14.625. 
 Exabyte said it expects to post third-quarter earnings of 20 to 25 cents a share on revenue of $75 million to $78 million. In the period a year earlier, Exabyte's net income was about $8.6 million, or 40 cents a share, on revenue of $58.6 million. Analysts' estimates for the quarter ending Sept. 30 were between 48 cents and 57 cents a share on revenue of between $75 million and $78 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EXBTE (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: EXABYTE CORP MIDGARDXXI INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXABYTE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); COLORADO, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); FORECASTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



732 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Appalled by the Execution Of A.I.D. Employee in the Sudan

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Relations between Washington and the Sudan, once an important American ally in Africa, have steadily deteriorated since the coming to power of Muslim fundamentalists in 1989. But the execution of a Sudanese employee of the United States' foreign aid agency appears to have shocked American diplomats already familiar with wide-ranging rights abuses by the Sudanese.
Donald Peterson, the United States Ambassador in Khartoum, said today that Andrew Tombe, 34 years old, a 10-year employee of the Agency for International Development in the southern regional capital of Juba, had been convicted of treason by a military court and executed about 10 days ago. Mr. Tombe was accused of working for a rebel group dominated by Christians and animists that is trying to wrest control of the south from the northern, Muslim-dominated government. 
 Embassy officials had been rebuffed in their requests for permission to go to Juba to see Mr. Tombe after his arrest in August, and again after his conviction, Mr. Peterson said.
The Ambassador said he had not been formally notified by the Government that Mr. Tombe had been executed. But he received a letter last Friday saying it was too late for the head of state, Lieut. Gen. Omar al-Bashir, to intervene in the A.I.D. employee's case.
He said he learned of Mr. Tombe's death through indirect channels.
Robert G. Houdek, now a Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, said that in 30 years as an American diplomat in Africa, he had never known of a local employee of a United States embassy being put to death.
Mr. Houdek said that the Sudanese Finance Minister, Abdul Rahim Hamdi, who is in Washington for an International Monetary Fund meeting, and another Sudanese official, a member of the allied National Islamic Front, would be called to the State Department on Wednesday.
"We plan to do some things but I'm not at liberty to say what," Mr. Houdek said. "I will communicate it to them at that time."
American options in the Sudan appear to be limited. All economic and military assistance were cut off after the Islamic fundamentalists came to power.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); AFRICA (93%); KENYA (92%); 

CITY: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (92%); NAIROBI, KENYA (73%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (94%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (94%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUDAN SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); AFRICA (93%); KENYA (92%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (92%); NAIROBI, KENYA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); CIVIL WAR (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TREASON (70%); MILITARY COURTS (70%); ARRESTS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); 

PERSON: TOMBE, ANTHONY; PERLEZ, JANE OMAR AL-BASHIR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



733 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Kissinger Remarks on P.O.W.'s: Congress 'Undercut' Nixon

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from testimony today by former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger before the Senate Select Committee on P.O.W.-M.I.A. Affairs, including responses to some questions posed by the committee chairman, Senator John F. Kerry:
 
OPENING STATEMENT
With respect to the missing: There is really, as I see it, only one difference between us. Nobody ever questioned that the accounting for the missing was unsatisfactory. We raised it at least 60 times during 1973. 
 The only difference is that we did not know of confirmed prisoners. And had we known it, we would have taken the most drastic steps.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Mr. Chairman and gentlemen of the committee, 23 years ago the President of the United States did me the great honor of asking me to be the principal negotiator for ending the war in Vietnam. I might add, there were not too many applicants for that position.
When the Administration in which I served entered office, it found 550,000 soldiers in Vietnam; 31,000 had already died there. We faced a ruthless enemy without any regard for human life, or elementary principles of treatment of the captured.
From the day we entered office, we had no more consistent goal than the release of the brave Americans held prisoner throughout Indochina, and a full accounting of their missing colleagues.
The negotiating record makes clear that this matter was insistently raised with the Vietnamese. Despite Hanoi's protestations, we demanded that Hanoi guarantee the release of American P.O.W.'s in Laos and Cambodia, and assist in accounting for M.I.A.'s. There was no issue on which American officials from the President on down were more adamant . . .
After nearly four years of grueling negotiations, it was my privilege on Jan. 23, 1973, to initial the agreement to end the war that required the return of all prisoners throughout Indochina and an accounting for the missing. I am proud of what my associates and I accomplished. . . .
Here we are, 20 years later, being pilloried in leaks, without a shred of evidence, for the unforgivable libel that we knowingly abandoned the very group whose suffering was the biggest single incentive for our exertion.
The Paris accords were a major diplomatic accomplishment for America. As part of the accords, we demanded and finally received from Hanoi agreements which specifically made the withdrawal of American forces dependent on the release of our prisoners and assurances of Hanoi's assistance in the accounting for our missing.
 
Incentives and Penalties
Monday morning quarterbacks can argue that the Paris accords were not perfect. I agree. To me the ideal outcome would have been an American victory. But, Mr. Chairman, we had to deal with the war in the specific circumstances we faced. . . .
For example, just as I was leaving for the final negotiations in January 1973, the House and Senate Democratic caucuses each passed, by very large margins, resolutions calling for legislation to cut off all funds for the war.
I challenge those flaunting their 20-20 hindsight to say how they could have gotten better terms in that charged political atmosphere. What, precisely, would they have been willing to do to achieve what particular changes and at what cost?
Moreover, since Congress removed both incentives and penalties for Hanoi's compliance, how exactly would any achievable amendment have changed Hanoi's behavior?

 	 	 		. . .	 	I am amazed to see press stories hinting darkly about prisoners abandoned by their own Government. There has been talk of conspiracy extending through five Administrations. Leaks assert that when President Nixon announced that all prisoners were on their way home, he or his aides knew that many were left behind.
That allegation is a flat-out lie. What has happened to this country that a Congressional committee could be asked to inquire whether any American official of whatever Administration would fail to move heaven and earth to fight for the release of American P.O.W.'s and an accounting of the missing?

 	 	 		. . .	 	While I was in office, we did receive some reports alleging that live Americans were still in Indochina. I can assure you that all those reports were taken seriously. No confirmed report of living American prisoners ever crossed my desk, although I am not saying they did not exist.
At the time, returning prisoners stated that they believed that all prisoners had been released.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Favored Military Retaliation
 There is, of course, the question of what more we could have done. During this period, as I have reported in detail in my memoirs, and as I explained during my deposition, I favored military retaliation against Hanoi's repeated violation. . . .
President Nixon felt that on balance it was better to have one more negotiating round. And from the overall point of view, I had no reason to disagree with his judgment, nor do I today.
Certainly there was little support in the United States for stronger measures. Most commentators, I would say all commentators, congressional or media, opposed any effort to stand up to Hanoi, arguing that the United States had no right to retaliate at all against the North's blatant violation. . . . Nor did the Congress offer support needed to resist Hanoi's violation.
We made no secret of our outrage with Hanoi's violations. During 1973, we delivered at least 30 separate public statements or private messages to that effect. . .
Unfortunately, it was also no secret that these efforts to pin Hanoi down amounted to firing empty cannon.
In theory we had three sources of leverage available -- bombing the north, offering economic aid to Hanoi, and giving military and economic aid to Saigon to deprive Hanoi of the hope of military victory.
The Congress took all three levers away, denying us both the carrot and the stick. When the Congress eliminated our leverage, we were trapped in the classic nightmare of every statesman. We had nothing to back up our tough words. But more tough words.
Under such conditions, we had no bargaining position left. . . . I challenge critics of the accord to say precisely how they would have achieved a better outcome under these circumstances.

 	 	 		. . .	 	So let us stop torturing ourselves. . . The United States Government kept faith with those who served their country and suffered for it. If servicemen were kept by our enemy, there is one villain, and one villain only: the cold-hearted rulers in Hanoi.
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. Mr. Secretary, lightly and nicely, let me say to you, this is the longest war in American history. In 1968, President Nixon came, and that was the year I was in Vietnam fighting, came with a program for peace, supposedly. In point of fact, what you wound up with in 1973 was extraordinarily close to the program tabled in 1969.
A. Absolutely not.
Q. Very close.
A. Not even remotely.
Q. Very close. I've read it word for word. But you suggest to me that those who oppose the war somehow took away options from you. I mean, you know, that's totally turning logic on -- I mean, the war ----
A. Mr. Chairman, it just -- what you are repeating here is the liturgy that one reads all the time that happens to be totally wrong. I don't happen to believe that this dialogue is very helpful, because it refights the Vietnam War.
 
U.S. Leverage
Q. . . . You were the first person here to suggest today that somehow it is inappropriate for me to ask a question because I represented a view that denied you these things.
Now, I don't believe I denied you anything.
A. No, all I'm saying is that the people who, in good faith, were opposed to continuation of military operations, cannot now say -- I do not in the slightest question your good faith -- cannot now say you didn't get what you only could have gotten by continuing military operations. That is all.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Q. The question is whether we got the full accounting and if we didn't, why. The question is did we move heaven and earth, as you said we would. Were we brutal in our response, as you told the families we would be? The answer is no.
Now, I've suggested that perhaps the reason is not that you were perfidious but that the Presidency crumbled, that there was not a capacity. If you think it's otherwise, I'd love to know.
 
'You Go Picking'
 A. Yes, I think it's otherwise, Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mr. Chairman, it is no great achievement. If you go picking through bureaucratic documents and use one sentence to prove what the motive was, nobody can believe --
Q. Sir, this is not a bureaucratic document. This is an American serviceman who was held as a prisoner in Vietnam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (92%); VIET NAM (91%); VIETNAM (90%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); 

COMPANY: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDOCHINA; LAOS UNITED STATES (97%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (92%); VIET NAM (91%); VIETNAM (90%); CAMBODIA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; PRISONERS OF WAR; CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS; MILITARY PERSONNEL; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); EVIDENCE (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); 

PERSON: KISSINGER, HENRY A (DR) JOHN KERRY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



734 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Democrats;
Where Debate Was to Be, Clinton Shows Up for Rally

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST LANSING, Mich., Sept. 22

 BODY:
In the face of mounting Republican attacks on his character and record in Arkansas, Gov. Bill Clinton today used a rally at the site of what was to have been the first Presidential debate to say that President Bush is "ducking" the debates because he cannot defend his record.
"I showed up here to debate today," he told several thousand students at Michigan State University. 
 Mr. Clinton said Mr. Bush objected to the debate format because "he'd have a harder time with his politics of diversion, division and denial."
The Bush campaign, meanwhile, stuck by its position and rejected efforts by the debate commission to start discussions about the possibility of a debate next Tuesday.
The Clinton planners had been looking forward to using appearances in Michigan to paint Mr. Bush as an indifferent President who would prefer not to meet Mr. Clinton at the same site. A sign posted behind Mr. Clinton today read: "Bill Clinton. There's no debate about it."
"I guess I can't blame him," he said. "If I had the worst record of any President in 50 years, I wouldn't want to defend my record either."
 
Sharpening the Attack
 Mr. Clinton said the President would prefer to stay in "splendid isolation" rather than debate.
"Why didn't he show up today?" Mr. Clinton said. "I'll tell you why. He is not ducking this debate because he's a bad debater. As a matter of fact, he's won most of his national debates when there is a properly controlled format in which he's allowed to dump on his opponents and attack the press."
Mr. Clinton added: "After four years of broken promises, trickle-down economics, higher taxes on the middle class and fewer jobs all around, the President who will say anything to get elected but does nothing after he gets elected -- after four years of that, it's time for a change."
Mr. Clinton has spent portions of each of the last few days preparing for debates with Mr. Bush. As public and private polls have begun to show that many voters think the President is ducking the meetings, he has sharpened his criticism.
"He doesn't want to talk about the real lives of real people and what would happen on the day after the election," Mr. Clinton said.
 
Another Bush Rejection
 The Commission on Presidential Debates attempted to find middle ground between the Democratic and Republican camps today by offering to meet with Mr. Clinton's campaign chairman, Mickey Kantor, and his counterpart in the Bush organization, Robert M. Teeter, on a revised debating schedule. But the Bush camp again rejected the proposal.
The Clinton campaign accepted the suggestion that the two sides meet to discuss debating next Tuesday in Louisville and turn the proposed Oct. 4 debate in San Diego into a meeting between the two major Vice-Presidential candidates instead. Under this plan, the final debate would be held Oct. 15 in Richmond.
Mr. Kantor accepted the commission's tentative recommendation and agreed to meet, but Mr. Teeter rejected it. The Republicans have said debate talks should be conducted without the commission as an intermediary.
Publicly, the Bush campaign reacted little to today's developments. The President, speaking at a series of airport rallies vaguely promised some sort of Presidential debates.
"The other side says they're eager to debate," he said in Shreveport, La. "I've debated every time we've had elections, and we'll probably have debates. We're not going to do it on his terms alone, but we'll have debates."
But Mr. Clinton told the students at Michigan State and reporters on his plane that Mr. Bush was searching for the most superficial format.
"I'm not surprised that instead of coming up here today to make the case that the next four years ought to be like the last four, Mr. Bush has instead been flying to states all around my native state to tell them what a bad Governor I've been," he said.
Republicans acting on Mr. Bush's behalf were in East Lansing holding a news conference to make points similar to those the President was making on his six-state tour. On that tour Mr. Bush was dogged at the rallies by protesters calling attention to his refusal so far to debate.
Dressed as chickens, some protesters held signs that read, "Chicken George" and "Read My Beak." One, referring to Mr. Bush's most famous and ill-fated promise of the last election, said, "Chickens Have no Lips."
In Greenville, Miss., a chicken-protester bearing a sign that said, "No debate about it. It's Chicken George," was forced to leave the airport hanger by the police and Bush campaign officials before Mr. Bush was to speak.
Amid the tit-for-tat campaign attacks today, the Clinton campaign released its own version of what it said were Mr. Bush's flip flops, complete with a note from the President to Mr. Clinton in 1989 in which Mr. Bush praised the "great job" the Arkansas Governor's did on an education conference.
"I guess partisan politics will strain some relationships in '90," Mr. Bush wrote. "But I really want to keep education reform out there above the fray."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton greeting supporters yesterday along the streets of East Lansing, Mich. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LANSING, MI, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



735 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: BUSH VETOES BILL MAKING EMPLOYERS GIVE FAMILY LEAVE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
President Bush tonight issued an unusual late-night veto of a politically contentious bill that would require larger companies to grant at least 12 weeks of unpaid leave to any employee to deal with a birth or adoption, a parent's or spouse's sickness, or other family emergencies.
Nearing the end of 15 hours of campaigning, Mr. Bush said in a written statement that he supported the concept of family leave but was rejecting the legislation because the financial burden it would impose on business would further dampen the growth of the economy and new jobs. 
 The Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell, Democrat of Maine, said he would quickly schedule a vote on overriding the veto.
 
Bush Hasn't Lost a Veto
 Mr. Bush has yet to lose a veto battle with the Democrats who control Congress, and there is little suggestion that this legislation, which was passed earlier this month by a 241-to-161 margin in the House, well short of the two-thirds needed to override a veto, would break that pattern. The bill passed the Senate on a voice vote in August.
But the political battle over the legislation is far more intense than that in Congress, and the timing of Mr. Bush's veto -- hours after the network television news programs had been broadcast -- suggested that the White House was seeking as little publicity for its action as possible.
Laura Melillo, a White House spokeswoman traveling with the President's campaign, said later that she was unsure why the veto message was issued so late, at 9 P.M., and said she could surmise only that the lateness was caused by the President's being on the road for the campaign.
 
Another Contentious Measure
 Congress earlier today sent Mr. Bush another contentious measure, one that would regulate soaring cable television prices, and dared him to carry through on his veto threat. On that bill, the two houses appeared to have enough votes to override a Bush veto for the first time. [Page D1.]
Mr. Bush has asserted that the Congress passed the family-leave bill at the peak of the campaign season, knowing that it would be vetoed, in an attempt to make him appear insensitive to the concerns of families and especially of women. Mr. Bush's Democratic opponent, Gov. Bill Clinton, favors the legislation.
In his veto message, Mr. Bush said, "I want to strongly reiterate that I have always supported employer policies to give time off for a child's birth or adoption or for family illness and believe it is important that employers offer these benefits. I object however, to the Federal Government mandating leave policies for American's employers and work force."
He suggested that Federal policies like the leave bill would stifle the creation of new jobs or result in the elimination of existing jobs.
In his veto message, the President called on Congress "to establish an alternative, flexible family-leave plan that will encourage small- and medium-size businesses to provide family leave for their employees" based on a refundable tax credit.
Mr. Bush formulated his proposal soon after the House passed the Democratic measure, and White House officials have acknowledged that there was little chance it would receive any real consideration, much less actual passage, before Election Day.
When the President vetoed a family leave measure in 1990, saying he opposed the idea of requiring businesses to provide leaves, he did not offer an alternative bill.
Tonight, Mr. Mitchell referred to the tax-credit proposal, saying: "The last time we heard such an interest in a family-leave tax credit was in the fall of 1988, when then-Vice President Bush promised during a political campaign to put forward such a proposal. Now, four years later, we are just learning the details of that proposal. This is a fig leaf to cover up the failed policies of the Bush Administration."
As to the timing of the veto announcement, Mr. Clinton said tonight: "Well, I expected it, but I'm still disappointed. I'm disappointed he did it late at night. I think he made a bad mistake. I think it's bad for America's families, bad for America's work places. That's another reason why I think people will vote for me Nov. 3, because I would sign such a law.
"I want to make these tough decisions in broad daylight when people can ask me about them. I'll have to make some tough decisions. When I do, I want to do it at a time where I can be held accountable for it."
The bill passed by Congress is broadly similar to one Mr. Bush vetoed in 1990. It requires companies with 50 or more workers to grant employees unpaid leave, to care for a sick child, parent or spouse, or for their own medical needs, like pregnancy, as well as requiring that employees' health insurance remain in force during such a leave.
It would not apply to employees who work fewer than 25 hours a weekly and would allow employers to exclude from the requirement workers in the top 10 percent of the pay scale. Those restrictions limit the bill's coverage mostly to the largest employers, about 5 percent of companies, employing roughly half of the nation's workers.
 
Bush's Alternative Tax Credit

Mr. Bush said last week in New Jersey that he believed family leave was an idea whose time was nigh. But he contended that most large companies already offered family leave to their workers and that the legislation would place an undue regulatory burden on those that did not. That would cost money, slow employment growth and eventually hurt some families the bill sought to help, he argued Friday.
Equally important, he said last week, the bill ignores the 50 to 60 percent of workers employed by small businesses that have no leave policies and, he said, cannot afford them without some form of assistance.
The Administration's new proposal would not require businesses to grant leaves but instead would offer a tax credit to any company, large or small, that chose to give its employees time off for family emergencies and medical problems.
The proposed credit, $20 a day for each employee up to 60 days leave, for an annual total of $1,200 a worker, would cost the Federal Government up to $400 million in lost tax revenues each year, the White House has estimated. Mr. Bush has said he will find the money by cutting elsewhere in the budget but has not specified what would be cut.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (73%); WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (73%); WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US); FAMILY LEAVES; FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT VETO (94%); FAMILY (91%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); FAMILY LEAVE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SICK LEAVE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (65%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MITCHELL, GEORGE J (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (89%); BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



736 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Senate Fails to Override Veto Of Bill on Voter Registration

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
The Senate today failed to override President Bush's veto of a bill that sought to increase voter turnout among the poor and the elderly by allowing citizens to register as they renew their driver's licenses or apply for welfare, unemployment, disability or Social Security benefits.
The President vetoed the bill nearly three months ago, but Democratic leaders decided to wait until the middle of the Presidential campaign to challenge Mr. Bush on it in order to maximize the political effect of their action. Democrats accused Mr. Bush of seeking to restrict the political power of those who most need Government help. 
 The Senate voted 62 to 38 in favor of overriding the veto, five votes short of the necessary two-thirds majority. The vote came down mostly along party lines, with 56 Democrats and 6 Republicans voting to override the veto and 37 Republicans joined by Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, voting to sustain it.
The measure, known in Congress as the "motor voter" bill, was approved by the Senate in May, 61 to 38, with 6 Republicans joining the majority. The House approved an identical bill in June, 268 to 153, with 28 Republicans siding with the majority.
Wendell H. Ford of Kentucky, the Senate Democratic whip who wrote the bill, said Mr. Bush's veto "reveals his shallow commitment to expanding democracy."
The measure would have simplified registration nationwide by adopting measures already in effect in 30 states. But the White House and most Republicans in Congress said a provision to encourage same-day registration would invite fraud in some areas.
"This is a solution in search of a problem," said Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky. "We estimate that it could cost up to $200 million in mandated costs that we would be imposing on the states, and there is no indication that throwing more people on the rolls makes them more likely to vote."
Richard Cloward, executive director of Human Serve, a voter registration group, disagreed. "This is a partisan effort to restrict democracy pure and simple," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; REGISTRATION OF VOTERS; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES; VETOES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION VOTERS & VOTING (93%); VETO (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); DRIVERS LICENSES (72%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD GEORGE W BUSH (90%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



737 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Excerpts From Bush's Speech on Clinton's Record

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from an address by President Bush in Springfield, Mo.:
 
Civil Rights
 Let me begin with an issue of concern to every American, every fair-minded American, civil rights. Governor Clinton says, and I quote, "Everybody knows I have the best civil rights record" -- his words. His modesty overwhelms me. But how does his record stand? 
 Some of you may know that in 1968 when I was a Congressman from Texas I supported the Fair Housing Act, and it wasn't popular with some of my constituents. And times have changed, of course. And nowadays 41 states have laws banning housing discrimination -- 41. But Arkansas is not one of them, and even though my opponent has been Governor for 12 years. Forty-six states have human relations agencies that safeguard citizens against discrimination. But not Arkansas under his leadership. Forty-eight states have basic civil rights laws that ban discrimination and guarantee equal opportunity, but not Arkansas. And that's right. Arkansas is only one of two states in America without a civil rights statute.
Candidate Clinton likes to talk about my 1990 veto of the Democratic Congress's quota bill. And I did veto that bill, and I'll veto any other quota bill that the liberals cook up.
I am for civil rights, and I am against quotas. And that is not a contradiction.
And so last year, after tough negotiations with Congress and beating back two attempts to ram down my throat and the people's throat a quota bill, I did sign, proudly sign, a major civil rights bill without resorting to quotas.
And in addition, I fought for the Americans With Disabilities Act, the most sweeping civil rights legislation in 30 years that brings those with disabilities into the mainstream and gives them a shot at the American dream.
And I'm proud of it.
And what about Governor Clinton? Even though his party enjoys overwhelming control of the Arkansas Legislature, Governor Clinton has still not brought a civil rights bill to the people of Arkansas.
And so when you hear the Candidate Clinton's rhetoric all across this country about civil rights, Governor Clinton's record just does not stand up.
 
Taxes
 Now, consider another issue -- economic fairness. You know, Candidate Clinton is playing the old games that liberals love to play, class warfare, divide Americans rich from poor, one group from another. He's good at it. Candidate Clinton is very good at that, using the same tired, twisted partisan statistics to explain how the poor can only get richer if the rich get poorer.
According to Candidate Clinton, the last 10 years have been a nightmare. Well, I've got news for him: it is not true. The Urban Institute back in Washington is not usually sympathetic to me. But listen to what they had to say about the 1980's. "When one follows individuals, rather than statistical groups defined by income, one finds that on average, the rich got a little richer, and the poor got much richer." Now that's the truth. Our policies of cutting taxes have spurred growth for all Americans.
Yes, we've got tough times now, but it's fair to look at the whole record. And Candidate Clinton doesn't think this is a fair result. He doesn't think it's fair, and it's maybe because Governor Clinton doesn't have much experience with tax fairness in his own state.
Governor Clinton has more than doubled -- you want a horror story, listen to this -- he has more than doubled Arkansas state spending since 1983, and he has paid for it by raising the taxes that hurt poor and working families the most. My opponent has raised and extended his sales tax repeatedly, and he has opposed removing that tax from groceries.

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
Crime
 Another issue, one near and dear to the hearts of every American, rural or urban, and that's crime.
Candidate Clinton -- Candidate Clinton, meet Governor Clinton. During the 1980's, the nation's overall crime rate, during the 80's, actually declined, but not in Arkansas. In fact, Governor Clinton's state had the biggest increase in overall crime rate in the entire nation. Nearly 28 percent.
And again, this is not fair to the good people of Arkansas. What about violent crimes? Arkansas's violent crime rate went up more than 58 percent, one of the worst records in the entire nation.
Why? Well, I've got a few hunches. Arkansas ranks near rock bottom in every per capita law-enforcement expenditure. For prisons, 46th. For judicial and legal systems, 50th. And when it comes to spending for police officers, Arkansas ranks 49th. And in Arkansas, when the prison door slams shut on a convicted criminal, he knows it won't be long before it opens up again.
As incredible as it sounds, as incredible as it sounds, most inmates in Arkansas serve less than one-fifth, one-fifth of their sentence behind bars. That's the worst record in the entire nation.
And the people of Arkansas deserve to walk their streets without fearing that some crazy convict is going to ruin their lives, some guy let out of jail far too early.
Now contrast the situation in Arkansas with what we've been doing on the Federal level. Most Federal inmates serve at least 85 percent of their full sentence. And I think it's pretty simple. If you take liberties with the law, you're going to lose your own liberties for a long, long time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); 

CITY: SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARKANSAS UNITED STATES (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VETO (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TRENDS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); DISABLED ACCESS (64%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



738 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-17

BRITAIN CUTS INTEREST RATE
Britain cut its benchmark interest rate one point, to 9 percent -- removing doubts that it has abandoned its effort to stabilize its currency, and it will concentrate instead on reinvigorating its economy. A1
 
DANES TO GET A SECOND CHANCE
Danish voters, who narrowly rejected the proposed European union treay in June, will be asked to vote again in mid-1993. A16 

GERMAN INTEREST RATES STAY HIGH
Most German bankers, politicians and others say they are doing the right thing by keeping interest rates high and the mark sound. A16
 
U.N. ASKED TO TRY HARDER
The European Community warned that the United Nations should become more adept at resolving disputes before they become conflicts requiring peacekeeping. A16
 
KISSINGER DEFENDS ACTIONS
Former Secretary of State Kissinger said top officials did not knowingly leave American prisoners behind in Vietnam and Laos in 1973. A1
 
U.N. OUSTS YUGOSLAVIA
The General Assembly voted to expel the truncated Yugoslavia from the seat previously occupied by the old Yugoslav federation. A1
 
TIES TO JAPANESE MOB SEEN
Evidence in a Japanese court suggested that some of the nation's top political leaders had formed a secret alliance with mobsters. A1
 
SEEDS COME TO SOMALIA
In a race to beat the rains, more than 1,000 tons of seeds are being distributed through famine areas of Somalia by the Red Cross. A3
 
Sudan's execution of A.I.D. employee shocks U.S. diplomats. A6
 
TAKING ON RUSSIA'S PARLIAMENT
President Yeltsin's chief economic planner renewed grappling with a hostile Parliament, warning that his policies must be restored. A17
 
HARD SELL FOR ISRAELI LEADER
Convincing the public of the possible need to give up part of the Golan Heights is proving to be a challenge for Prime Minister Rabin. A10
 
Johannesburg Journal: A pathologist's new-found fame. A4
 
National A18-25
 
BUSH VETOES LEAVE BILL
President Bush vetoed a politically contentious bill that would require larger companies to grant at least 12 weeks of unpaid leave to any employee to deal with a child's or spouse's sickness or other family emergency. A1
 
CIRCLING ARKANSAS
The President traveled 2,500 miles and visited the six states bordering Arkansas to denounce Gov. Bill Clinton's record. In a departure from his strategy of letting campaign surrogates handle attacks, Mr. Bush told audiences that his opponent "delivers misery at home." A1
 
News analysis: how accurate is the Bush attack? A20
 
Mr. Clinton says Mr. Bush is "ducking" the debates. A21
 
Political Memo: reality and "Murphy Brown." A21
 
THE KINDNESS OF STRANGERS
In the sections of South Florida ravaged by Hurricane Andrew, storm survivors are marveling at the bounty of charity, from meals to money for rental housing. A18
 
PHILADELPHIA STRIKE LOOMS
When Mayor Edward Rendell of Philadelphia came into office in November, he vowed to make the city run efficiently and within its budget, even if he had to endure a strike. He may have to. A18
 
3 CABINET MEMBERS CLEARED
The special counsel investigating the House bank has told three members of President Bush's Cabinet that they are not under criminal investigation for writing overdrafts when they were Representatives. But a fourth Cabinet officer, Labor Secretary Lynn Martin, has not heard from the counsel. A22
 
A court allows a documentary on censorship to be shown. A18
 
A ruling striking down a strict Louisiana abortion law is upheld. A25
 
A former priest was extradited on sexual abuse charges. A25
 
Education Page B9
 
Citing budget cuts and union woes, Los Angeles superintendent resigns.
 
Baltimore parents, teachers worry as a private firm takes over schools.
 
Campus Journal: The hurricane did not deter Miami-Dade's students.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
PROFITABLE CAN TRADE
About New York: From the ranks of the down-and-out scufflers who range through New York city picking up empty soda and beer containers an elite has emerged, a group of people called two-for-oners who have found a way to earn as much as $60,000 to $70,000 a year by redeeming discarded cans. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-10
 
Grand Central's Cinderella room awaits its prince. C1
 
At tea with Ozzy Osbourne. C1
 
Metropolitan Diary C2
 
60-Minute Gourmet C2
 
Jewish food traditions in a Poland bereft of Jews. C3
 
Eating Well C4
 
Plain and Simple C4
 
Keeping the best of a beaux-arts beauty. C6
 
Food Notes C7
 
Wine Talk C8
 
From blossom to berry to jam. C10
 
Health Page C12
 
Registries of birth defects sought to end information gap.
 
Personal Health: Deciding what to do about prostate cancer.
 
98.6 degrees isn't necessarily normal any more, a study finds.
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
 
Playboy's interviews. C13
 
Theater: In Review C16
 
Film: "Mr. Saturday Night." C13
 
"Together Alone." C18
 
Music: Met Opera opening. C13
 
Dance: Critic's Notebook C13
 
Word and Image: Two books from Gore Vidal. C19
 
Book Notes C20
 
"Mad About You" on NBC. C20
 
Snooping on "48 Hours." C20
 
Sports B10-15
 
Baseball: Dodgers want to cry uncle. B13
 
Pirates and Expos lose. B12
 
Basketball: Knicks get Charles Smith. B11
 
Boxing: Notebook B14
 
Columns: Anderson on Simms. B11
 
On Pro BasketballB14
 
On Horse Racing B14
 
Football: Giants rejoice over victory. B11
 
Jets notebook B15
 
Hockey: Gretzky will not retire. B14
 
Sports People B10
 
Obituaries B7
 
Dan Lacey; editor who analyzed unemployment trends.
 
Thomas I. Fitzgerald, a lawyer.
 
Charles H. Shattuck, Shakespearean scholar.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
Yawning at The Bomb.
Straight talk about the draft.
At last, a Dinkins homeless plan.
Small change for peacekeeping.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: Bad and blue.
 
Fred Malek: Yes, 128 Clinton fees and taxes. Count them.
 
Andrei Codrescu: Gypsy tragedy, German amnesia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); SOMALIA (92%); DENMARK (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SUDAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); VIET NAM (71%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (56%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); SOMALIA (92%); DENMARK (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SUDAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); VIET NAM (71%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (56%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VETO (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); POLITICS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SICK LEAVE (73%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); HURRICANES (64%); FAMINE (64%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



739 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
In Their Own Words

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

 BODY:

GOV. BILL CLINTON
In a speech yesterday at Michigan State University at East Lansing.
 "I'm not surprised that instead of showing up here today to make the case that the next four years ought to be like the last four, Mr. Bush is instead flying to states all around my native state to tell them what a bad Governor I've been. I'll tell you what: I bet you anything he won't point out that Arkansas ranks first in the country in job growth this year. 
 He sent his Secretary of Labor to my state, and she had to admit that the job growth in Arkansas has been enormous. We've created more manufacturing jobs in my state in the last four years than have been created in the whole country under the Bush policies, because he has no economic strategy.
 I'll bet you anything he won't tell them that we've got the second lowest tax burden in the country, or that U.S. News & World Report says that we have the third best overall economic performance in America. I'll bet George Bush conceals that from the people he's talking to today, because he doesn't want to talk about the real lives of real people, and what will happen on the day after the election. It's all about diversion, denial and division. We can do better than that.
This debate is not about George Bush or Bill Clinton. It's about you and what kind of future you're going to have."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (69%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DEBATING EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); GOVERNORS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); RANKINGS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



740 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
Encircling Arkansas, Bush Opens Harsh Attack on Clinton's Record

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KELLY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SHREVEPORT, La., Sept. 22

 BODY:
Trailing in polls around the nation, President Bush today unleashed a harsh critique of Bill Clinton's record as Governor of Arkansas and depicted him as a man who could not be trusted to lead the country.
A combative, sometimes strident Mr. Bush derided Mr. Clinton as a "man who has the gall to go around America and promise the moon, when on issue after issue, the sky has fallen in his own backyard." 
 "He talks one way around the nation; he delivers misery at home," Mr. Bush said. "We've all heard what Candidate Clinton can do for America, but that's very different from what Governor Clinton has done to Arkansas. The record of Governor Clinton proves that it doesn't matter what the candidate will say to anyone, because he won't deliver." [Excerpts, page A20.]
 
A Tactic Renewed
 To lend emphasis to the argument, Mr. Bush staged an elaborate game of political encirclement, with Air Force One touching down more than six times in a single day in the states bordering the one his opponent has governed for five terms.
Reprising a tactic from the 1988 Presidential campaign, Mr. Bush laid out a broad, highly detailed attack on Mr. Clinton's record, accusing him in unusually harsh language of a wide array of failures in leadership in areas like the economy, the environment, crime, civil rights and health care.
Although statistically the President was on solid ground in his criticism of the Governor's record, a closer examination shows that Mr. Clinton has accomplished much in his state and that the statistics must be put into context to be fully understood. [News analysis, page A20.]
In his stops today, a day that had once been set aside for a televised debate between the candidates, Mr. Bush spoke of Mr. Clinton as someone who believes he can win election "only by tearing down America," as one who is "playing that old game liberals love to play -- class warfare," as the sort of Governor who "coddles criminals" and wants to "raise taxes that will kill jobs."
But, in apparent recognition of Mr. Clinton's determinedly middle-of-the-road persona, Mr. Bush also attacked from the left, criticizing the Governor for his environmental record and his state's care of children and its record on civil rights legislation.
The President's tactics seemed to draw in part on those he used four years ago, when he stripped Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of his political appeal by depicting the Massachusetts Governor as a spendthrift who had done a poor job at home.
Bush advisers said today that the President emphasized he was returning Mr. Clinton's attacks on him, because he did not want to be seen as the first candidate to go on the offensive. Now that the fight has been joined, however, Mr. Bush may stick to his tough tone, a senior aide said, even though classic political strategy calls for a return to a more positive tone just before Election Day.
"He's going to go out and say it and keep on saying it, because it's time for our principal to get into the fight," the aide said.
 
Difficult Straits for Bush
 In the past, Mr. Bush has preferred to stay above personal attacks, letting surrogates handle them. It is perhaps a measure of the difficulty he faces with only six weeks until Election Day that he is now handling the job himself, and in states that, by recent history's guide, should have already been safely in the Republican column.
"We've got to get this in the mix," a second Bush adviser said, speaking on a condition of anonymity. "But at the same time, and in almost the same proportion, we've got to give people a reason to be for George Bush."
The President said: "For month after month, Governor Clinton has persisted in attacks on me -- persistent, unrelenting and many very personal in nature. Frankly, he has distorted my record, and his campaign chairman even called me a racist. And this week, the Governor unveiled for the first time in this Presidential race negative campaigning, negative television advertising.
"So far, right up to today in Springfield, I have resisted the urge focus on Governor Clinton's record. But I must tell you, I am very tired of the distortions, tired of the half-truths. And the stakes are too high to let America be deceived by a negative campaign.
"So today, I have chosen to lay it on the line, talk about my opponent's record, talk facts, talk about the record in Arkansas, the Governor's record. And that means explaining the Grand Canyon that separates his rhetoric from the reality of his record."
In tone and particulars, Mr. Bush's speeches at rallies in Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee recalled his attacks on Mr. Dukakis as a left-leaning, blame-America-first, soft-on-crime liberal.
 
Trying the Canine Analogy
 In Tulsa, Okla., the President said Mr. Clinton had "talked a lot, but done nothing," on civil rights. Later, in Longview, Tex., he charged his opponent with having a "sorry record, by any Texas standard," on health care and of taking such poor care of the Arkansas environment that "the rivers are so polluted the fish glow in the dark."
Then, in Shreveport, La., he said he wished that the tough-on-crime Candidate Clinton -- "the Doberman pinscher," he called him -- could meet "Governor Clinton, the Chihuahua on crime," whom he accused of having "the worst record in the entire nation, when it comes to keeping criminals behind bars."
Mr. Bush's attack rested heavily on what his strategists see as Mr. Clinton's great weakness, that many voters do not fully trust his character. The President thus spoke of Mr. Clinton as "slippery when wet" and made glancing references to his rival's much-publicized difficulty in explaining why he did not serve in the military during the Vietnam War.
In Longview, Mr. Bush pointed to a World War II warplane parked in front of him at the airport and said: "That's the kind of torpedo bomber I flew. I'm proud that I served my nation in combat."
In Shreveport, a man listening to Mr. Bush's invitation-only rally at the airport yelled out a question about Mr. Clinton and the draft, prompting Mr,. Bush to reply: "No, I am not going to talk about the draft today. I'll let the American people make up their minds about that. All I will say is that I am proud I put on the uniform and fought for my country."
The Clinton campaign responded quickly to the attacks and accused Mr. Bush both of being afraid to make his charges directly to the Governor's face and of distorting his record.
"They obviously don't want to debate the Arkansas record face to face with Governor Clinton, as they turned down the debate that was scheduled to be held in Michigan today," the Clinton campaign's spokeswoman, Dee Dee Myers, said. "And they obviously are afraid to go into Arkansas and try to say this, because in Arkansas people know that the Governor's record is one of progress, with per capita income going up, welfare reform working, schools getting better."
While the direction of attack that Mr. Bush took today is not new in general character -- "the failed Governor of a small state" has been a Republican line for some time -- the specific accusations were far sharper and more detailed and numerous than in the past.
On civil rights, Mr. Bush dismissed Mr. Clinton's claim of a good record by saying that, as Governor for 12 years, Mr. Clinton has failed to sign a civil rights law banning discrimination. "That's right," Mr. Bush said. "Arkansas is one of only two states in America without a civil rights statute."
On Mr. Clinton's taxing and spending record, Mr. Bush said, "If you want a horror story, listen to this: he has more than doubled Arkansas state spending since 1983, and he has paid for it by raising the taxes that hurt the poor working families the most." The Governor, he said, had doubled the state gasoline tax, raised the tax on beer, inititated taxes on mobile homes and "even taxed food stamps until the Federal Government made him stop."
On crime, Mr. Bush's charges sounded like a replay of the attacks his campaign leveled against Mr. Dukakis over a Massachusetts program that allowed a murderer serving a sentence of life without parole to escape while on a weekend furlough and then brutally attack a Maryland couple.
Mr. Bush said Arkansas under Mr. Clinton's stewardship had "the worst record in the entire nation," in terms of paroling inmates who had served only small parts of their sentences, with "most inmates serving less than one-fifth" of their sentences. Violent crime, he said, had increased more than 58 percent during Mr. Clinton's tenure.
Ms. Myers, the Clinton spokeswoman, said Mr. Bush's charges were in many cases distorted because the President omitted to say that Arkansas's tax burden was in fact extremely low, that Arkansas led the nation in job growth in 1992 and that the Clinton Administration's failure to enact civil rights measures had not been for lack of trying.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A World War II plane, a reminder of an earlier time and former job, was brought out for President Bush's welcome in Longview, Tex. (Reuters) (pg. A1); President Bush greeting well-wishers in Springfield, Mo., as he campaigned in states bordering Arkansas, the home of Gov. Bill Clinton. (Associated Press) (pg. A20)
 
Map showing Bush's itinerary yesterday. (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (59%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARKANSAS UNITED STATES (96%); ARKANSAS, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (59%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CHILDREN (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); WORLD WAR II (67%); LIBERALISM (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); KELLY, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



741 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Truth's Several Sides;
Bush's Attack on the Clinton Record Is Accurate, at Least as Far as It Goes

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Much of President Bush's damning description today of Bill Clinton's record as Governor was accurate, but as with all things political, Mr. Bush's account gave only half the story.
There are countervailing figures and plausible explanations for many of the harsh statistics the President described, conditions borne of Arkansas's endemic poverty, its citizens' historical disdain for government and the sharp statutory limits the state places on its chief executive. 
 Still, it is true, as Mr. Bush declared, that Arkansas's per capita income, among the lowest in the nation for as long as statistics have been collected, has not risen under Mr. Clinton's rule. In fact, it has fallen back a bit.
It is true that taxes have risen, particularly for the poor and middle class. College-admissions test scores have fallen. Only three other states have fewer people covered by health insurance. And only one other state has not passed a civil rights law.
 
Some Things Left Out
 But even with all that, Mr. Bush left a lot out. His own record as President offers as many opportunities for statistical attack. Today, Mr. Clinton, berating the President for failing to agree to terms for a debate, proclaimed, "If I had the worst record of any President in 50 years, I wouldn't want to defend that record either."
In the end, the numbers illustrating Arkansas's low rank among the states are hard, making them easy to throw around to good effect. The explanations are soft, making them difficult to communicate with equal force. And those are the key ingredients of a potentially effective political attack.
But even a casual look at Mr. Clinton's record as Governor for most of the last 13 years would suggest that the voters of his state, at least, must believe he has accomplished something. He has served longer in that office than anyone else; the voters have elected him five times. By most accounts he remains quite popular, even as national statistics continue to rank the state near last in the nation by most measures of quality of life.
One explanation for this paradox lies in the particularly bleak expectations most Arkansas residents seem to have.
"It took us 150 years to get in this spot, and it might take us a good long time to get out of it," Mike Gauldin, Mr. Clinton's aide, likes to say.
 
Attacking Basic Problems
 By most accounts, much of the state does believe Mr. Clinton has, in fact, worked hard to attack some of Arkansas's fundamental problems -- below-average schools, a weak economic base, lagging social services.
"People really do believe we've been aggressive and progressive about trying to bring our folks along," said John E. Miller, a member of the Arkansas House for the last 34 years.
But while Mr. Clinton may have tried harder than many of his predecessors, the governers of other states were hard at work, too. And so, after more than a decade of effort that many in Arkansas describe as extraordinary for the state, by many measures the state has managed only to hold its place -- near the bottom.
Even with that, a closer look at some of the issues Mr. Bush used in his attack today shows that the problems are not nearly as stark or one-sided as the President suggested. For some other issues, Mr. Bush's own record includes vulnerabilities as well.
 
Both Clean and Dirty
 As Mr. Bush said, the Kings River in northwest Arkansas has grown badly polluted with fecal bacteria and other pollutants derived from poultry wastes that wash into the stream. Mr. Clinton has also been widely criticized for appointing a 27-member committee made up mostly of poultry industry executives and state agency heads to study the problem.
But it is also true that Arkansas remains one of only a handful of states that meets all Federal air quality standards, while about 82 percent of the state's rivers and streams are clean enough for fishing and swimming -- one of the highest percentages in the nation.
As the President correctly observed, only one other state, Alabama, has not enacted a civil rights law barring racial discrimination in hiring and promotion. Mr. Clinton promoted a civil rights bill before the Arkansas Legislature last year, and it was defeated. Even without that, more blacks and women have been appointed to state boards, commissions and government departments under Mr. Clinton than under any of his predecessors.
And as Mr. Clinton's campaign likes to point out, Mr. Bush's record on this issues has long been a subject of criticism. As an unsuccessful Senate candidate from Texas in 1964, Mr. Bush campaigned against the Civil Rights Act of that year, saying it was "bad legislation in that it transcends the Constitution."
 
Not That Simple
 As Mr. Bush pointed out, Mr. Clinton raised taxes "that hurt poor and working families the most." At the Governor's urging, Arkansas's Legislature raised the sales tax and extended it to some items, like used cars, that are most often purchased by people with low incomes. But Mr. Clinton did that only after the Legislature refused to raise the state income tax, the least regressive state tax.
Under Arkansas's Constitution, the income tax can be raised only if three-quarters of the Legislature approves -- a nearly impossible political burden. As a result, the income tax has been raised only once since 1928. But even with the other tax increases during Mr. Clinton's time in office, 41 states impose higher tax burdens on their citizens.
Since 1979, as Mr. Bush said, the cumulative test scores of Arkansas students have fallen from 20th to 25th among the 28 states that administer one popular college-admission exam. But that may be because far more students, taking advantage of new state aid programs, are applying to college now -- meaning that the pool of test-takers no longer includes just the cream of each year's senior class.
At the same time, at Mr. Clinton's urging, the state's schools have increased expenditures, broadened curriculums, set new academic standards, required comptency tests for teachers and slowed the drop-out rate. Over all, state officials note, Arkansas now devotes a larger percentage of its budget to education than all but two other states -- a striking increase over the last decade.
Mr. Clinton's aides argue that the real effects of this increased commitment to education will not be felt until the generation of students that entered the schools in the mid- to late-1980's begins to graduate.
"We've laid a foundation," Bill Bowen, Mr. Clinton's chief of staff, said last spring. Now, he said, "It's a matter of waiting for things to come to fruition."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARKANSAS UNITED STATES (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



742 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Philadelphia Unions Facing Deadline Today on Contract

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Almost every day, Mayor Edward G. Rendell repeats a campaign pledge that he will endure a strike, if necessary, to make the city run efficiently and within its budget.
It may be necessary. 
 When Mr. Rendell came into office last November, Philadelphia had endured two years of political paralysis and fiscal crisis. To revive the city's economy, he vowed to set into motion a five-year plan to make the city run efficiently. The backbone of that plan included $1.1 billion in management and labor savings.
Now, after months of bargaining between city officials and the two unions representing all 15,000 non-uniformed municipal workers, a strike could occur as early as Thursday.
 
Threat of General Strike
 The Philadelphia A.F.L.-C.I.O. Council, which represents 250 local unions, including those for city employees, has also threatened a general strike by its 250,000 members in support of the city workers.
Matters came to a boil last Friday when Mr. Rendell presented the city's "last, best offer" at a news conference and said the unions, both districts of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, had until 5 P.M. Wednesday to accept it or have it imposed upon them.
"If you were a worker in the private sector and you were working for a company that suffered four straight years of substantial losses, you would view this contract proposal as a fair one," Mr. Rendell said.
By Monday night, the unions had rejected Mr. Rendell's offer. But informal talks continued today, leaving the possibility of a settlement. If no agreement is reached by 5 P.M. Wednesday, it is not certain what will happen.
"If the Mayor seeks to unilaterally implement this last offer, we will consider every option available to us, including lawsuits and a strike," said Deborah R. Willig, a lawyer representing the unions. Strikes by municipal employees are legal in Pennsylvania.
Ms. Willig said the unions could ask the Pennsylvania Labor Relations Board to rule that it is an unfair labor practice for the city to impose a final offer. The board ruled earlier this year that the Philadelphia Housing Authority was unfair when it imposed a final offer on its employees, but that ruling is being appealed.
Such a ruling by the board would not immediately prevent the city from imposing its final offer. But the dispute could drag on for several months.
The unions have already filed a charge of unfair labor practices , asserting that Mr. Rendell illegally presented his final offer at a news conference instead of at the bargaining table. State law prohibits employers from dealing directly with employees as opposed to union negotiators.
 
Getting the Public Ready
 Despite raising the ire of municipal unions, Mr. Rendell has, in the view of political analysts here, managed public opinion wisely since he was elected last November with 68 percent of the vote.
"He's been getting people used to the idea of a strike for months, saying something bad's going to happen, but something good will come out of it for everybody," said Randall M. Miller, a professor of political science at St. Joseph's University. "But it's hard to maintain this public readiness, so he is bringing it to a crisis for financial and political reasons."
Many fiscal experts say the city's survival depends on reducing its labor costs, which represent nearly 60 percent of the city's $2.3 billion budget.
"This negotiation is a make-it or break-it issue for the financial health and credibility of Philadelphia," said Diane E. Reed, executive director of the Pennsylvania Economy League, a nonprofit research organization.
 
Doing Well by Comparison
 Ms. Reed said Mr. Rendell's offer was "completely appropriate." She said Philadelphia's employees get higher pay and benefits than employees in nine other large cities in the nation.
The unions dispute the league' figures, but add that the disagreement is largely over benefits, job security and the union's role in the workplace. "Mr. Mayor is mistaken if he thinks the union is going to negotiate itself out of existence," said Dwight Kirk, a spokesman for one city local.
Mr. Rendell, saying he was seeking the same kinds of management flexibility that a dozen other major cities had obtained in recent years, says the city must "regain the right to manage its affairs like any business."
He said the city could not raise taxes or cut services, since it has done both repeatedly over the last decade.
 
Better Than First Offery
 The Mayor's last offer is apparently about 25 percent better than his first, which was made this spring, before the contracts expired on June 30. But the new offer still calls for $450 million in labor savings over the next four years. The contracts for the police and firefighters are settled by binding arbitration.
Under the Mayor's proposal, workers would receive no increase for two years, a 2 percent increase in 1995 and a 3 percent increase in 1996. The city would take over administration of health plans from the unions and require workers to pay a share of their medical expenses. Holidays and sick leave would be reduced.
The city has little room to negotiate since it has already incorporated the anticipated labor savings in its five-year recovery plan. The plan calls for obtaining the labor savings or, failing that, laying off enough workers to balance the budget each year. The plan, backed by the City Council, was the basis for the city's obtaining state help in raising $475 million in bonds on Wall Street earlier this year to cover deficits and capital improvements.
Last year, the State Legislature created an authority to oversee the city's finances and sell bonds on the city's behalf. If the city does not balance its budget, the authority can withhold proceeds of its bond sales and most assistance, said Ronald G. Henry, the authority's executive director. "Rendell has to stand his ground," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Edward G. Rendell of Philadelphia, who may have to endure a strike of the unions representing all 15,000 non-uniformed municipal workers as early as tomorrow. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (56%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILADELPHIA (PA) UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STRIKES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (74%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); COUNTIES (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); LITIGATION (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LAWYERS (65%); 

PERSON: RENDELL, EDWARD G (MAYOR); HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY ED RENDELL (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



743 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Yawning at The Bomb

 BODY:
It has taken the Senate 14 months to begin consideration of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty. Yet what do some resistant Republicans want to do? Filibuster, further delaying ratification. That's the latest example of Washington's remarkably diffident attitude toward the large and potentially dangerous array of nuclear arms that remain in the former Soviet Union.
Soviet disunion catapulted three republics into the ranks of nuclear powers overnight. If the U.S. is to prevent instant proliferation, it needs to take several urgent steps: 
 Coax Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Belarus to get rid of their remaining nuclear-tipped missiles. Codify the agreement on far deeper reductions concluded with Russia in June. Induce Russia to dismantle nuclear warheads faster. Buy all the nuclear material removed. And post international inspectors at storage sites in the meantime.
For both sides to get on with these tasks, the Start treaty needs to be ratified. Any sign of hesitation would only play into the hands of nuclear nationalists in the former Soviet republics. Yet a handful of recalcitrant Republicans opposed to any arms control would do just that.
Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Belarus all pledged in May to surrender their nuclear missiles in seven years. But today's regimes may not be around to deliver on that promise. Already Ukrainian nationalists are talking openly about reneging. Yet there's little sense of urgency in Washington: the U.S. official responsible for getting the nuclear republics to dispose of their arms is a part-time employee. Washington can use economic leverage to push disarmament by the republics.
Washington's lethargy extends to deeper cuts negotiated with Moscow. The cuts could induce the other nuclear republics to disarm. Yet the Government has not vigorously pressed to formalize the June agreement so that it can be ratified and carried out. What are we waiting for?
Russia has begun methodically dismantling some nuclear warheads but it could easily go faster. The U.S., or allies like Japan, might offer an inducement: so many millions in aid for, say, going twice as fast.
To its credit, the Administration has concluded a deal to buy Russian uranium removed from the dismantled warheads. But it has made no provision for monitoring the dismantling to insure that material stays out of the hands of nuclear wannabes. That may require reciprocal inspections in the U.S., which the Departments of Energy and Defense resist with startling shortsightedness.
The U.S., let alone the world, has an overriding interest in preventing instant proliferation. But no one would guess that from the backward-looking filibuster and the bureaucrats' sluggish Start.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (92%); BELARUS (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UKRAINE (92%); BELARUS (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; TREATIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; MISSILES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FILIBUSTER (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); INSPECTIONS (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



744 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: Women's Household Labor Goes Unrewarded

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The denial of women's labor is a curious phenomenon. Why is it that a woman is thought to be either "at work" or "at home," and that working at home means performing office tasks? Why isn't child raising considered to be the difficult, albeit rewarding job that it is?
It was mentioned repeatedly at the Republican Convention and in your Sept. 2 news article on mothers' roles that a woman was either "at work" or had chosen to stay "at home." "At home" had the connotation of being invisible. As Anna Quindlen has written: "When men do dishes, it is called helping. When women do dishes, it is called life" ("Abhors a Vacuum," column, Sept. 9). 
 It seems that in a patriarchal world only men's work is considered real work. Women are not paid for the services of the home. They are not part of the economy. It is convenient to think of women's work as insignificant and unworthy. If the work is unacknowledged and denied, then no one has to be directly responsible for it, certainly not men. Working men don't have to feel guilty about not sharing housework and child care, especially if they don't exist.
As an artist and mother I have worked at home and in my studio. It seems it is time to recognize that women who are "at home" are also "at work." If child raising and housework were considered valuable, there would be untold rewards and jobs for everyone.
 
ELIZABETH ENDERS
New York, Sept. 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; LABOR; HOUSEWORK; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEN (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: ENDERS, ELIZABETH ANNA QUINDLEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



745 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Cable Bill Approved By Senate

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Congress sent President Bush a controversial bill today to regulate soaring cable television prices, daring him to carry through on his veto threat in the face of large votes for the measure in both the House and Senate.
The Senate approved the measure today, 74 to 25, an unexpectedly wide margin that included a majority of the Senate's Republicans. The approval came despite intense lobbying against the measure by cable television companies, Hollywood movie studios and the White House. [Roll-call, page D2.] 
 The House of Representatives had approved the same bill on Thursday by a wide margin, making it likely that President Bush would lose any veto battle on the issue. The President so far has not had any of his vetoes overridden by Congress.
 
Monthly Bill May Not Change
 Consumers are unlikely to notice an immediate change in their monthly cable bills, since the measure would primarily affect only a bare-bones package of programming consisting of local over-the-air television stations.
The bill would require the Federal Communications Commission to establish a "reasonable" price for such a basic package of cable programs and would authorize more limited regulation of the expanded packages that include such offerings as MTV, movies and sports channels.
But the measure also has a lucrative provision for broadcasters and includes some features ardently sought by companies that distribute television over satellite and microwave radio channels. The cable companies say those provisions will cable prices up.
 
Finance and Politics
 So, what started as an effort to pass a rather tame consumer bill three years ago has evolved into a high-stakes showdown on two stages. On one stage is the battle between huge competing industries: cable television companies and Hollywood studios versus over-the-air broadcasters and their allies.
On a second stage is the election-year battle between Congressional Democrats bent on passing what they see as a major consumer bill and President Bush, who has staked out his position as an opponent of "unnecessary and burdensome" regulations. The regulatory provisions in this bill are much tougher than the ones in a bill that nearly passed Congress in 1990, and rate increases are likely to be slowed considerably.
Today's vote came amid an intense blitz of lobbying and advertising from both sides of the issue. Cable companies have put a barrage of ads on cable networks, supplemented by leaflets stuffed into customers' bills, arguing that the bill would make rates go up, instead of down. The most familiar ad shows a man under an umbrella that leaks from numerous holes, intended to depict the bill's special-interest provisions. The ad warns consumers not to "get soaked."
The bill could become a significant issue in the Presidential campaign. Senator Al Gore Jr. of Tennessee, the Democratic nominee for Vice President, is a co-sponsor of the bill and he is scheduled to make a speech on Thursday in Morganton, N.C., where city officials have fought bitterly with the local cable company over price increases.
Cable television prices have risen over 50 percent, more than three times the rate of inflation, since they were deregulated five years ago under a law passed in 1984. In some cities, rates for basic service have more than doubled.
The bill being sent to President Bush would largely reverse the 1984 law, which was intended to give impetus to what was then a nascent cable industry. Cable television has grown spectacularly in recent years, from a fledgling industry with $2.5 billion in sales in 1980 to nearly $20 billion today. The number of channels available has steadily risen, from about a dozen in the early 1980's to as many as 75 in some cities and 150 in a showcase system in Queens, owned by Time-Warner Inc.
The consumer issues have emerged because cable companies continue to enjoy exclusive franchises in all but a few dozen communities. Competition from new technologies, like satellites that beam signals directly to houses, has yet to materialize.
Supporters of the bill were ecstatic about the lopsided vote. "It's a big boost," said Gene Kimmelman, legislative director of the Consumer Federation of America. "It's a clear signal to President Bush that there is overwhelming support in the House and Senate to do something about the cable industry's excesses. He's got a lot of votes to change."
James P. Mooney, president of the National Cable Television Association, said he would continue to fight for a successful veto. "This is obviously a tough fight, and it isn't over," he said in a brief statement today.
 
Broadcasters Return Fire
 The National Association of Broadcasters has struck back at the cable companies' ads, blanketing both the radio and television airwaves in some cities with counter-ads. The broadcasters have provided most of the muscle in support of the bill, because it includes a provision that would allow them to demand royalties from cable companies for the right to retransmit their programming.
Some of the heaviest activity, however, has come from Hollywood movie producers who oppose the provision on retransmission rights because they fear it will leave them out of a valuable new stream of royalties. Jack Valenti, head of the Motion Picture Association of America, made personal visits to five Senators on Monday, according to one of his allies, and studio chiefs in California spent much of the last week urging lawmakers to vote against the bill. Among these were Michael Eisner, chief executive officer of the Walt Disney Company and Robert Daly, chief executive of Warner Brothers.
Both supporters and opponents had predicted that the vote would be close in terms of getting the fragile two-thirds majority needed to override a veto. The Senate approved a similar bill in January by a vote of 73 to 18, but many Republicans and a few Democrats loyal to Hollywood were considered likely to change their votes.
That did not happen. Only 18 Republicans voted against the bill today, while 24 voted in favor of it. Among the Republicans who had been considered candidates for switching their votes but did not do so were stalwart conservatives like Orrin Hatch of Utah and Alan Simpson of Wyoming, as well as moderates like Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania who face serious election challenges in November.
 
A Senator's Struggle
 "I don't think either side is right," said Senator Hatch, adding that his name had been mentioned in some television ads by local broadcasters and that he had almost voted against the bill in protest of that. Senator Hatch said he had voted in favor of the legislation in January and had overcome his concerns about re-regulation in part to remain consistent. Asked whether he would switch sides to support President Bush if a veto is put to an override test, he said he would "certainly look at it."
The leading Democratic opponent of the bill, Senator Tim Wirth of Colorado, whose state is home to Tele-Communications Inc., said today: "I'm surprised the Republicans didn't get more votes on this. They usually have better discipline than this. The President has got to be concerned about whether he has the votes. It's a stretch."
Senator John C. Danforth, the Missouri Republican who co-sponsored the legislation, said it would be premature to assume that President Bush would be defeated in a veto test. "This is a stronger vote than I had expected, but veto fights are tough," Mr. Danforth said. "They'll turn some votes around."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Wednesday showing the possible impact of cable television legislation misstated the royalties that broadcasters are expected to receive from cable companies. The highest estimate has been $1 billion, not $3 billion.


GRAPHIC: Backers of the cable bill call it a major consumer initiative that will curb soaring prices, while the cable industry says the measure is loaded with special-interest giveaways that will raise rates.
 
How The Bill Would Push Rates Down:
 
Rates
Chart: "The Cable Television Bill Debate"
The F.C.C. would set guidelines for prices for basic service, roughly pegged to the prices charged in the few markets where a cable system has a direct competitor. It estimates that prices are about 20 percent lower in these cases.
 
Competition
 Large companies that both own systems and produce popular programming, such as HBO, would have to license products to new rivals, thus increasing competition from new satellite services and "wireless cable" systems.
 
Equipment
 Prices for converter boxes and remote control devices would be regulated. Consumers could buy their own equipment.
 
How It Would Push Rates Up:
 
New broadcaster fees
 Over-the-air stations and the networks could demand that cable companies pay royalties to retransmit their programming, at a cost to the industry of up to $3 billion.
 
New technologies
 Within 10 years, customers would be able to buy only channels they want, rather than entire packages. Cable industry says the technology to make this possible will cost $4 billion.
 
The Bottom Line:
 Most consumers are not likely to notice any difference in their monthly bills. (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US); CABLE TELEVISION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; PRICES TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); VETO (92%); APPROVALS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); FILM (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); MICROWAVE COMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1992



746 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Overview;
BUSH SAYS CLINTON IMPERILS BUSINESS

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
President Bush continued his political assault on Gov. Bill Clinton today, using his first television attack ad and two pointed speeches to broaden his profile of Mr. Clinton as a tax-and-spend liberal.
Mr. Bush said at a morning rally in Greensboro, N.C., that Mr. Clinton's plans for higher business taxes would wipe out tens of thousands of jobs in that state alone and millions of businesses nationwide. Later, at Pennsylvania State University, he told a roaring crowd of students that his rival was "taxing everything he can get his hands on" as Arkansas Governor.
 
$20 Billion Tax-Cut Plan
 
 By contrast, Mr. Bush proposed in Greensboro to cut small-business taxes by $20 billion in a second term, something he said would create new businesses and jobs in "the backbone of the economy."
By Administration estimates, that brought to $165 billion over five years the total of tax cuts that Mr. Bush had pledged to seek since his campaign began. [News analysis, page A22.]
Criss-crossing Georgia by bus, Mr. Clinton and his running mate, Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, responded by attacking Mr. Bush's economic record. The Democrats also gained new ammunition when organizers of a debate set for Tuesday in Louisville canceled it today because of Mr. Bush's objection to the format.
In Columbus, Ga., Mr. Clinton accused Mr. Bush of squandering billions of dollars in military spending cuts made possible by the collapse of Communism. He said Mr. Bush had poured that money "into a looming budget deficit to pay for the S.& L. crisis and ballooning health-care costs." And Mr. Gore lambasted Mr. Bush for what he called "the worst economic performance since the Great Depression."
"Unemployment under Bush and Quayle is up," he said. "New housing starts are down. Poverty is up. Personal income is down. Bankruptcies are up. Consumer confidence is down. Everything that should be down is up; everything that should be up is down. They've got it upside down. We want to turn it right-side up."
Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton have traded punches before. But today's campaigning seemed to mark the full emergence of the President's negative political strategy, weeks after the Clinton campaign began a daily pounding of Mr. Bush's record as President.
Today in Fort Worth, Vice President Dan Quayle stepped up the Republican attack on Mr. Clinton's trustworthiness by providing a "top 10 list of Bill Clinton flip-flops" on issues like abortion and welfare reform. "They reflect a fundamental element of Governor Clinton's character, the triumph of expediency over principle, of convenience over truth," he said.
A senior Bush campaign official said the race was moving toward a new stage in which the President, having in his advisers' view set out a plausible economic policy and rebuilt some lost credibility, would start reminding voters of Mr. Clinton's liabilities.
"A big chunk of his lead is pretty soft -- over a third of it -- and they know it," said the official, who would speak only if not named.
 
Attacking on Fast-Forward
 Moving to claim that chunk, Mr. Bush's advisers summoned reporters to the Washington campaign headquarters today to view a 30-second commercial that combines humor with a biting attack on Mr. Clinton's taxation record as Arkansas Governor.
The advertisement intersperses speeded-up videotape of Mr. Clinton signing legislation with a recitation of his state's tax increases on groceries, beer, mobile homes, consumer goods, tourism and cable television. It concludes by noting that Mr. Clinton wants to raise Federal spending by $220 billion if elected and asks: "Guess where he'll get the money?"
The Bush campaign made it clear that the commercial is the first of many negative advertisements. "The fact is, Bill Clinton has been a big taxer in Arkansas," said the campaign's senior political adviser, Charles Black. "We're simply raising the legitimate point that you have to judge what's likely to happen with taxes on his record."
The Clinton campaign's communications director, George Stephanopoulos, called the commercial misleading. "It's interesting to see George Bush talking about spending when he is on this pander parade," Mr. Stephanopoulos said, referring to Mr. Bush's recent trips around the nation to distribute Federal disaster relief and contracts to build aircraft.
He added: "It's hard to imagine anybody with less credibility on taxes than George Bush, a man who says 'read my lips' about taxes. It's time to reach for your wallet and check the facts."
The Clinton campaign unleashed a negative commercial of its own in Mr. Bush's adopted home state, Texas. Like earlier ones, it focuses on the high unemployment rate, using a close-up shot of Mr. Bush's lips as background for the complaint: "Bush promised 30 million jobs in eight years. He's 29 million short."
It concludes by asking, "Can Texans really afford four more years of this?"
 
Heckling Over Debate
 By some measures, it was one of Mr. Bush's better days, with sharp speeches and lively crowds, while Mr. Clinton drew subdued audiences. But the President was dogged by questions about his refusal to debate Mr. Clinton until both campaigns have negotiated a format and locales. Mr. Clinton has agreed to a series of debates proposed by an independent, bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates.
That group today scrapped plans for what would have been a second debate, set for Tuesday in Louisville, because Mr. Bush had not agreed to the format of having a single moderator rather than a panel of questioners. The first debate, scheduled for East Lansing, Mich., earlier this week, was canceled for the same reason.
At a rally in State College, Pa., Mr. Bush was loudly heckled on the matter. "I want a debate," he asserted, "over issues, and an argument over ideas, and I will stand on my record. And I won't let that Arkansas Governor run away from his record either."
The Clinton campaign chairman, Mickey Kantor, said his candidate would be in Louisville on Tuesday whether or not Mr. Bush showed up. "We keep accepting," he said. "They keep rejecting. They are missing in action."
On the road in North Carolina, Mr. Bush maintained that millions of small businesses would be ruined by Mr. Clinton's tax proposals, which include $150 billion in new personal and corporate income taxes, a 1.5 percent tax on payrolls and a health-care plan that would require an additional 7 percent payroll tax.
"If you're like the typical small business, you operate with a profit margin of about 2 percent," Mr. Bush said. "His payroll taxes alone amount to 4 percent to 5 percent of your operating expenses. That's your profit margin, and then some. So here's your choice: you can board up the windows or you can get out the pink slips."
Mr. Bush unveiled his own business plan, combining tax and policy changes costing $28.1 billion over five years. The plan mixed new proposals with some that have been languishing for months in Congress.
Bush aides said legislation to carry out the program had not been drafted. Nor was it likely that a Democrat-dominated Congress would pass the program, they conceded.
Mr. Clinton said that his campaign was "competitive all across the South, and we intend to press them" through the fall. He also sought to assure residents of Georgia, a state of big military bases and sprawling defense plants.
Standing on stages draped in flags, Mr. Clinton supported both the defense establishment and retraining programs for workers displaced by Pentagon cuts. He appeared with Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, who said Mr. Clinton would be "a Commander in Chief we can trust" and likened him to Thomas Jefferson. "You've been accused of everything that Thomas Jefferson was accused of, except being raised on cornbread," Mr. Nunn said. "And I'm waiting for that one, because that's going to help us right here in the South."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton addressing a rally in Albany, Ga. With him were, from left, Senator Al Gore and his wife, Tipper; Gov. Zell Miller; Sanford Bishop, a Congressional candidate, and Mr. Clinton's wife, Hillary. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (91%); ALBANY, GA, USA (75%); COLUMBUS, GA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: FORT WORTH MORTGAGE (51%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREENSBORO (NC); GEORGIA UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (91%); ALBANY, GA, USA (75%); COLUMBUS, GA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; SMALL BUSINESS; ELECTION ISSUES TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (64%); DEFENSE SPENDING (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



747 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Germany Tells the U.N. It Wants A Permanent Seat on the Council

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Germany told the United Nations General Assembly for the first time today that it would like a permanent seat on the Security Council and promised to revise its Constitution so that German soldiers could take part in United Nations military operations.
The German statement, made by Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel in an address to the Assembly, was widely viewed as a sign that two years after reunification Germany is ready to take a role in world political affairs commensurate with its economic strength.
 
Japan Also Wants a Seat
 
 Mr. Kinkel made clear that Germany was still unwilling to go on the offensive in seeking a permanent seat on the 15-nation Council, the body charged with preserving world peace, saying, "We will not take the initiative in this respect."
But he noted that a debate on enlarging the Security Council was under way and that "if a change in the Council's composition is actually considered we, too, shall seek a permanent seat."
Mr. Kinkel's comments came one day after the Japanese Foreign Minister, Michio Watanabe, dropped a broad hint, as he did in his speech last year, that Japan also believes its economic importance merits permanent Security Council membership by 1995, when the United Nations celebrates its 50th anniversary.
In the past, the United States has supported the principle of Council membership for Japan and, since reunification in October 1990, for Germany as well. But it has also quietly discouraged both countries from pressing openly for permanent membership, fearing that any attempt to amend the United Nations Charter risks unleashing pressures for more far-reaching organizational changes. Now that Germany and Japan are becoming more explicit about their wishes, Washington may have to decide whether to come out publicly in favor of or against their membership.
At present, permanent membership is restricted to the United States, Britain, France, Russia and China, the five World War II victors, who also have a veto on decisions. The 10 rotating members serve two-year terms.
Many countries consider that this no longer reflects the realities of the modern era. Pressure to expand or change the membership is growing among the poor populous countries in the United Nations and popular sentiment to join the Council is also thought to be building in Japan and Germany.
 
May Be Years Away
 Mr. Kinkel said today that the "efficiency and credibility" of the Council were important if it was to serve as a guardian of international peace. German officials say that the pressures will force the United Nations to reconsider the Council's membership in the next few years and that Germany will seek permanent a seat then.
Changes in the Council's membership are almost certain to be accompanied with complications and disputes. Many third world countries resent the privileged position of the present Permanent Five, as they are called, and want greater representation for the world's populous poorer nations.
This week Brazil's Foreign Minister, Celso Lafer, has sought support for what has come to be called the Brazilian plan, under which Germany and Japan would get permanent seats without a veto, along with such countries as Brazil, India, Egypt and Nigeria.
But the addition of five or six more permanent members would bring pressure for more rotating seats as well, raising the Council's membership to 25 or so, which some diplomats fear would make decisions harder to reach.
German officials say the Government decided that the time was right to press more openly for permanent Council membership because of a feeling that Britain and France would never agree to an alternative plan under which they would merge their national seats into a single permanent seat representing the European Community.
The German Foreign Minister also sought to deal with one of the major arguments against giving Germany permanent Security Council membership today -- the Government's contention that a constitutional ban against sending German soldiers outside the NATO area prevents it from taking part in peacekeeping operations.
Mr. Kinkel said the ruling coalition of Christian Democrats and Free Democrats was committed "to make our armed forces available to the United Nations, with the approval of Parliament, for peacekeeping and peacemaking assignments." German officials said this phrase was meant to include both classic peacekeeping operations and military enforcement action against aggressors authorized by the Security Council.
 
In Supporting Roles
 In fact, German armed forces have played supporting roles in several United Nations peacekeeping operations recently in what German officials here say is a calculated policy of preparing German public opinion for a larger role. A German army field hospital is now deployed in Cambodia, for instance.
Not all German legal experts agree that the Constitution bars Germany from taking part in United Nations peacekeeping operations. But the Government wants Parliament to approve a constitutional amendment giving it an unambiguous right to send forces abroad on United Nations business. However, it has been unable to assemble the necessary majority because of deep-seated objections by the left wing of the opposition Social Democrats.
 
Salvadoran Notes Advances
 President Alfredo Cristiani of El Salvador told the General Assembly today that the agreement ending his country's long and bitter civil war was moving ahead and that the demobilization of the rebel forces would be completed by the Oct. 31 target date.
Mr. Cristiani also received the report of an independent three-man commission inquiring into human rights abuses and corruption together with its recommendations, which he must comply with within 60 days. He refused to disclose details and said they would be dealt with confidentially.
At a news conference later, Mr. Cristiani said the cost of returning El Salvador to normalcy after 12 years of fighting would be $1.8 billion, including redistributing land, establishing a new civil police force and repairing the country's damaged infrastructure.
The Presidents of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina signed a new friendship agreement today under which they will coordinate their defense efforts against the Serbian authorities in Belgrade.
The two Presidents said they would join their efforts both to defend themselves against Serbian attack and to seek an end to the Security Council's arms embargo against all the republics of the former Yugoslav federation.
President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia also said that since full civil rights had now been extended to the Serbian minority living in his country under United Nations protection, the peacekeeping force should be withdrawn next year when its mandate expires.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; JAPAN GERMANY (96%); JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; KINKEL, KLAUS (MIN); WATANABE, MICHIO (MIN) KLAUS KINKEL (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



748 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
PROPPING UP THE FRANC
France and Germany fought desperately to prop up the value of the French franc and preserve Europe's battered monetary system. The two nations issued a rare joint statement vowing a strong defense of the currency, and the Bank of France raised a key interest rate. A1
 
MAKE ROOM FOR US, GERMANS SAY
For the first time, Germany told the United Nations General Assembly that it would like a permanent seat on the Security Council. It also promised to revise its Constitution so German soldiers can take part in United Nations military operations. A1 

A PIECE IN THE M.I.A. PUZZLE
Capt. David L. Hrdlicka was shot down over Laos in 1965. There is evidence he survived, but he was not returned with other United States prisoners in 1973. He is a "discrepancy" case, in a category that is under new scrutiny during Senate hearings this week. A3
 
A Russian says two Americans died in Soviet custody decades ago. A3
 
RACING THE BOSNIAN SNOWS
United Nations officials worry that winter will bring severe hardship to the people of Sarajevo and dozens of other towns and villages. They say a new relief effort, against daunting obstacles, is needed. A14
 
GRUMBLING IN SERBIA
Serbs were defiant and despairing over Yugoslavia's ouster from the United Nations. But many waiting in a four-mile line for gas were more concerned by the international economic embargo. A14
 
RUSSIA'S LOAN PROBLEM
A senior Russian official said his country was unable to tap Western loans because it could not meet overdue payments on previous debts. He said other Western loans were not being used because the weak ruble makes imports too expensive. A10
 
STORM BATTERS FRANCE
At least 30 people have died and nearly 50 are missing after a storm pounded southern France on Tuesday, causing floods, destroying crops and damaging roads. A10
 
THAILAND'S NEW LEADER
Chuan Leekpai, who has opposed military interference in politics, became Prime Minister -- by putting together a coalition that includes a pro-military party. A8
 
RUSSIA SELLING SUBS TO IRAN
Pentagon officials said Russia is selling diesel submarines to Teheran, and they are worried. A9
 
BAKER WARNED U.S. ON IRAQ
As the Bush Administration was trying to preserve its friendship with Saddam Hussein, the Secretary of State urgently warned that Iraq was secretly using American technology in its arms buildup. A6
 
 
Violence is growing as Angola's elections approach. A11
 
The site of a Soviet prison camp in Germany yields mass graves. A15
 
Jerusalem Journal: Fireworks from the Education Minister. A4
 
National A16-26, B10-12
 
RENEWED ATTACK ON CLINTON
President Bush continued his political assault on Gov. Bill Clinton, using his first television "attack ad" and two pointed speeches to broaden his profile of Mr. Clinton as a tax-and-spend liberal. A1
 
THE REMAKING OF HILLARY CLINTON
Political Memo: Hillary Clinton seems to be riding a heady backlash from the Republican convention. Her crowds are big and months of careful maneuvering to recast her image seem to be finally paying off. A1
 
NEW ROUND IN FAMILY-LEAVE FIGHT
Reacting to President Bush's veto of family leave legislation, Democrats in the Senate scheduled an override vote on Thursday to salvage the politically contentious bill. A20
 
BIG PROMISES vs. BUDGET DEFICIT
News analysis: In recent weeks, President Bush has offered tax breaks of various shapes and sizes. It is not unusual for Presidential candidates to make generous promises, but Mr. Bush does so as he advocates a balanced-budget amendment. A22
 
G.O.P. WRITING OFF CALIFORNIA
Republicans have all but given up on winning California for President Bush, essentially writing off the electoral prize to Gov. Bill Clinton. A23
 
A report on $4 million in spending by Ross Perot. A24
 
A LOOK AT FETAL MEDICINE'S FUTURE
Doctors have identified embryos with genetic defects only a few days after sperm met egg and the embryo was created. A1
 
4 CITED IN NAVY SCANDAL
Three admirals and a top Navy civilian will be cited by the Navy's inspector general for failing to aggressively pursue officers who sexually assaulted at least 26 women at an aviators' convention last year, Pentagon officials said. A1
 
CUTS IN FLU SHOTS FOR ELDERLY
Many older Americans who received free influenza shots for the last four years under an experimental Medicare project could go unprotected in the next flu season. A16
 
DEBATE OVER A COLD WAR SECRET
For years, chemical weapons were stored on an Army base in Anniston, Ala. But it was not until last spring, when the Army announced that it would destroy Anniston's stockpiles, that the chemicals became a major issue in the town. A16
 
NEW CHARGE AGAINST EX-PRIEST
Charges of criminal sexual conduct with a baby sitter were lodged in Minnesota against a former Roman Catholic priest who was indicted Monday on charges of sexually assaulting 32 girls and boys in Massachusetts three decades ago. A25
 
GENEROSITY TOWARD HOMELESS
While many cities have taken a hostile view of their homeless, Anchorage has provided a safety net. As a result, few of the city's homeless die, despite the long winters. B12
 
Metro Digest B1
 
CHAIN TO REOPEN 6 ALEXANDER'S
Bradlees Inc., a discount department store, said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire and reopen six of the 11 Alexander's Department Stores closed in bankruptcy this year in the New York region. A1
 
NADLER WINS NOMINATION
State Assemblyman Jerrold Nadler, a veteran legislator from the Upper West Side, was chosen by Manhattan Democratic Party leaders as their nominee to succeed Representative Ted Weiss on the November ballot, virtually assuring his election. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Home Section C1-12
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A28-29
 
Editorials
 
Put out the police fire.
Override the family leave veto.
Curfews on top of curfews.
Topics: The smoking disease bill.
 
Letters
 
William Safire: Into the shredder.
 
Leslie H. Gelb: Mr. Bush, statesman?
 
Maggie Gallagher: An unwed mother for Quayle.
 
Henry Brandon: Who split Czechoslovakia?
 
Sports B13-19
 
Obituaries D24-25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); FRANCE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ANGOLA (79%); IRAN (77%); THAILAND (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (77%); 

COMPANY: T H E M INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (96%); FRANCE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ANGOLA (79%); IRAN (77%); THAILAND (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); PRISONS (70%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (61%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



749 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: 'Safety Net' for Anchorage Homeless Is Seen as Both a Lifesaver and a Trap

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE

 BODY:
This city is a showcase to social progress of a sort, though it is measured in the slumped forms of the homeless men and women who sleep on a cavernous shelter floor.
It is progress because few homeless people in Anchorage die, despite the city's large population of street alcoholics and the long, hard winters that used to kill many of them. 
 While many cities have taken a hostile view of their homeless, Anchorage is emerging from a decade in which the fortification of a safety net has become a matter of civic pride.
 
Praise for Generosity
 "People are just incredibly generous here," said Hilary Morgan, a social worker at the Brother Francis Shelter, the city's largest, who moved to Anchorage last year after living in Hawaii and New York City.
But the civic dynamics of homelessness are changing in a way that could imperil hundreds of the city's dispossessed this winter and that illustrates what a confounding problem homelessness in America has become.
After a decade of expanding services, a city report issued in July said the system "only exacerbates the problems of the persistently poor." This brought even to a laboratory of generosity like Anchorage an echo of arguments heard elsewhere, that efforts to help some homeless people can inadvertently hurt them.
In New York, Philadelphia, Washington and elsewhere, some officials have argued that the guarantee of shelter simply leads addicts to spend more money on liquor or drugs. Some academic researchers have reached the same conclusion.
 
Closing of a Shelter
 Making the same argument, Anchorage officials have now closed an emergency shelter for alcoholics who were too drunk to be admitted to Brother Francis. In turn, they have opened 10 new detoxification beds and begun talking about rehabilitation.
"All we had was stronger, healthier drunks," said Jewel Jones, the director of social services.
But some advocates for the homeless here view the development with alarm. They say the beds are too few and that the new system may drive the hardest drinkers, unwilling to seek treatment, back into the bushes and the abandoned buildings where they used to freeze to death.
The average winter low in Anchorage is seven degrees, and even Ms. Jones confesses that she does not know how well street people will fare under the new policies. "We're going forward with our fingers crossed," she said, "hoping no one dies."
Anchorage's history of generosity dates to a May afternoon in 1983 when an encampment of homeless people were evicted from Federal railroad land. With coaxing from the Roman Catholic Archbishop, Francis Hurley, two lay members of a religious order, Bob Eaton and Dave Sifferman, led about 100 of them into a downtown park, where they pitched tents to dramatize their condition.
Area residents protested, and John Franklin, then the public safety commissioner, arrived in angry mood, planning another eviction. But he was stopped, he said, by the look on Mr. Sifferman's face.
"I remember, he said -- eyes full of compassion -- 'John, these people have no place to go,' " Mr. Franklin said.
As a recovering alcoholic himself, Mr. Franklin said he even recognized a few of the encamped men from his own days, 15 years earlier, as back-alley drinker. He stayed the eviction and reported to the Mayor, Tony Knowles, a Democrat, who asked him to help the advocates find a permanent shelter.
They picked a city warehouse, used a $700,000 Federal grant to rehabilitate it and opened the Brother Francis shelter in October of 1983. The city pays about $100,000 a year in maintenance and utility bills, and the archdiocese, through Catholic Social Services, meets the $460,000 operating budget."
Mr. Franklin, who has since retired, said he got up to speak at the dedication but "burst into tears."
 
'Nobody Has to Freeze to Death'
 'About all I could say is, 'Thank God, at least nobody has to freeze to death in Anchorage anymore," he said.
But business at the shelter, to everyone's regret, has continued to boom. In its first year, the shelter never had more than 180 clients a night. Last winter, it topped off at 320, and the area has now grown into what has been called the homeless "campus."
When the shelter closes at 7 A.M., many of its residents simply cross the parking lot to Bean's Cafe, a soup kitchen run by a separate nonprofit group. It provides three meals and a place to spend the day.
Another key to the city's success is an emergency van service that patrols the streets for alcoholics in danger of freezing to death. It is operated by a private company, with a $400,000 city contract.
The city does not collect statistics on the deaths of homeless people, but government officials say that before Brother Francis Shelter was opened, as many as a dozen a year would die in the cold. Now Mr. Eaton, the advocate who founded the shelter, said, "We lose one or two a year."
Alcoholism is not the only cause of homelessness in Anchorage, where the rental market rocketed in the 1980's, displacing many low-income families. But it is the leading cause, especially among the single men and women who roam the streets and give homelessness its public face.
A city study published in July estimates that substance abuse accounted for 46 percent of the city's homeless. Other reasons included mental illness, 17 percent; economic dislocation, 16 percent; physical illness, 9 percent; "apparent deadbeats," 6 percent; "noncitizens" looking for work 4 percent, and abused women, 2 percent.
Even in August, when many homeless people sleep outside, Brother Francis Shelter has the ragged feel of a Civil War army in retreat. At 8 o'clock on a recent night, about 150 men and women gathered to eat paper platefuls of chili, watch television, smoke or sleep. A woman held up a copy of a Harlequin romance novel and insisted the man on its cover was her long-lost brother. A couple tried to fight, but their drunken blows landed only on the night air, amid an outpouring of epithets.
Roy Willock, 33 years old, told a common story about a journey from rural Alaska to Anchorage, fueled by thirst. He said he left his village, Kotzebue, four years ago when voters approved a ban on bars and liquor stores and has been living at the shelter intermittently ever since.
Asked how often he drinks, Mr. Willock said, "Fluently, every other day." Without the Brother Francis Shelter, he said, "I'd probably go back home in Kotzebue, where I have family that would take care of me."
 
Support From Public
 Despite a clientele with more grunge than glamour, those who serve the homeless have received an unusual amount of public support. Donors to the Anchorage United Way give more money to Bean's Cafe than to any other organization, and Catholic Social Services, which runs Brother Francis Shelter, ranks second.
Some advocates even say they prefer the private support to government money. "We're not adding to the Federal deficit by asking for money for what we see as a local problem," said Mr. Eaton, whose work has drawn praise in many corners of the city.
Area stores support the kitchen by selling packages of bean soup. And when Bean's was constructing a new building, the Arco oil company even lent a manager, Rob McCormick, to serve as interim director, paying his $45,000 salary for eight months and presenting television commercials lauding his work.
At The Anchorage Daily News, several top editors are married to advocates for the homeless. Among them is Howard Weaver, the newspaper's top editor, who describes its coverage as something of a crusade. "We're not exactly disinterested, and I don't think we should be," he said. "I'm rather proud of the way Anchorage has responded on the basic question of 'Are you going to freeze to death?' "
But with homelessness at record highs, city officials now argue that the safety net grew more snug than intended. Even Brother Francis Shelter has set a nightly limit of 240, both for the safety of the residents and because the staff thinks some people could afford to make other arrangements.
"We're getting a little tougher here," said Mr. Eaton, who is resigning this year after a decade of exhausting work.
A Republican Mayor, Tom Fink, was elected in 1986, and his aides now argue that city policy has "enabled" alcoholics to keep drinking. They argue that with vans to transport them, kitchens to feed them and shelters to keep them from the cold, public inebriates had no motivation to change. A June memorandum signed by Mr. Fink argues that the policy allowed alcoholics not only to continue their drinking but "perhaps even to increase it."
Emphasizing the goal of self-sufficiency, the city in July closed the emergency sleep-off center that provided 30 beds for people too drunk to stay at Brother Francis. Instead it has substituted a bedless waiting room where alcoholics can spend the night in hard plastic chairs, and opened an additional 10 beds for those willing to enter a detoxification program.
But some advocates warn that the policy may just drive street alcoholics back into the bushes, a possibility that Ms. Jones, the social services director, calls real.
Mr. Franklin, the former public safety commissioner, said the talk of "enabling" alcoholics to keep drinking is just a rationale for saving money, one that ignores the fact that alcoholics have "no control." "We're not enabling alcoholism," he said, "we're enabling the alcoholics to stay alive."
Mr. Eaton, proud of the city's record in saving lives, also views ambitious talk of rehabilitation warily. Allowing himself a rare sardonic moment, he said, "I'm a big believer that you can't rehabilitate a dead person."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After a decade of fortifying a safety net for the homeless. Anchorage officials are questioning a system that they say "only exacerbates the problems of the persistently poor." The population at the Brother Francis shelter, the city's largest, has grown steadily since itopened in 1983. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ANCHORAGE (ALASKA) UNITED STATES (95%); ALASKA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; ALCOHOLISM HOMELESSNESS (95%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); EVICTION (89%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (77%); RELIGION (62%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



750 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
France and Germany gave heavy support to the franc, in a temporarily successful bid to drive up its value against the mark. The Bank of France also raised a key interest rate, making the franc more attractive. [Page A1.] The two nations' concerted effort against investors and speculators, more than any other governmental action of recent weeks, could determine the future, and perhaps the survival, of Europe's monetary system. [D8.]
Britain's Prime Minister, John Major, will confront his critics in Parliament today, hoping to douse a serious rebellion over his Government's economic and European policies. [D8.]
 
Markets
Long-term interest rates are rising, threatening to slow an already sluggish recovery and proving worrisome for the re-election hopes of President Bush. [D1.] 
 The Dow industrials lost 2.16 points to close at 3,278.69, as investors remained on the defensive. [D10.]
The dollar plunged to a low against the yen, settling at 120.15 yen, as investors sought a haven from European turmoil. [D21.]
Natural gas prices extended their post-hurricane ascent with the contract for October delivery rising 9.7 cents, to $2.743. [D21.]
 
The Economy
The Senate passed a measure to cut health care costs, making it harder for President Bush to kill a $31 billion tax bill. [D1.]
Sales of domestically built cars and trucks fell 3.1 percent in mid-September, burdened by weak results at General Motors. [D4.]
Alan Greenspan was pressured by Treasury Secretary Brady to achieve some growth shortly before he was renominated as Federal Reserve chairman, Administration officials said. [D2.]
The Federal Reserve issued a modestly upbeat assessment of business conditions around the country in its "beige book." [D3.]
 
Companies
Prudential Insurance raised its claim estimate to $1.2 billion for damage in Florida from Hurricane Andrew. [D1.]
Bradlees agreed to acquire six of the 11 Alexander's Department Stores closed in bankruptcy in the New York area. The Massachusetts-based discounter is to spend $82 million and is to receive tax incentives from New York City. [A1.]
The singer Billy Joel sued his lawyers, Allen Grubman and Arthur Indursky, and their New York firm. They denied his charges. [D1.]
An adviser to dissident USG bondholders said the group's differences with the company over its proposed $2.7 billion debt restructuring plan were not large and could be negotiated. [D4.]
Bon-Ton Stores' shares lost more than a third of their value, closing down $2.50, at $4.75, after projecting a third-quarter loss and saying E. Herbert Ross, its president was leaving. [D4.]
Air France and Air Canada sealed an alliance to increase the number of flights between the two countries. [D4.]
MCI announced it would introduce a video telephone for $750, opening a new front in its long rivalry with A.T.& T. [D4.]
Porsche unexpectedly announced that Arno Bohn, its chairman, would leave because of policy differences. [D5.]
Remington Products will stay in Bridgeport, Conn., where it employs 1,100, thanks to a $15 million state loan guarantee. [B7.]
 
Today's Columns
The 1990's have become a twilight zone for economic policy makers in which neither fiscal nor monetary policies quite work the way they once did. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
There are still bargains to be found among military stocks, a growing number of Wall Street analysts say, despite the generally gloomy outlook, given Pentagon cuts. Market Place. [D10.]
Major League Baseball is seeking young fans, using an elaborate MTV-style campaign with the theme "Catch the fever" to lower the age curve of viewers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D9.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); BONT (NASDAQ) (51%); AF (PAR) (50%); AF (AMS) (50%); AC.A (TSX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); BON-TON STORES INC (51%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (50%); AIR CANADA (50%); NEW YORK (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); HURRICANES (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); RETAILERS (70%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (69%); NATURAL GAS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (67%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); CORPORATE DEBT (67%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); TROPICAL STORMS (66%); LAWYERS (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); COMPANY LOSSES (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



751 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Destroy Toxic Weapons Polarizes a City

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ANNISTON, Ala. Sept. 18

 BODY:
Each day for more than 32 years, Curtis Penny's job took him into the concrete, earth-covered igloos that dot acre after acre of the Anniston Army Depot, like so many grassy hummocks.
The tools of his trade included protective clothing, a gas mask and a syringe full of atropine, the heart and muscle stimulant he would have injected at a moment's notice if any of the thousands of containers he was charged with maintaining had leaked their deadly contents: nerve gas that had been stored for up to 30 years. 
 In that time neither Mr. Penny nor hundreds of other civilian employees who tended the stockpile of chemical weapons talked much about their work to neighbors in this city of 30,000. Even so, he and others insisted that everybody must have known of the chemicals stored there; they just didn't like to think about them.
 
Awakening to Danger
 Suddenly Anniston is forced to confront the perils in its midst: Sarin a topical poison that interrupts breathing and destroys vision and muscle control; VX, a substance that produces similar symptoms when vaporized and inhaled; mustard agents that cause skin eruptions, blistering and lesions while destroying the eyes and lungs. Unlike modern binary chemical weapons, which require two components to be mixed before becoming lethal, these substances are so-called unitary chemicals, fully potent and deadly in their aging containers.
Last spring, the U. S. Army announced that it was working on plans to build a $600 million incinerator at the depot to destroy Anniston's stockpiles over a four-year period. In one of the cruel paradoxes of the cold war's end, residents here could no longer ignore their dangerous secret.
For years the depot and Fort McClelland, a center for research of chemical and biological weapons, have formed part of the economic bedrock of Anniston and surrounding Calhoun County, and people here have grown to trust and depend on the Army. Lately Fort McClelland has been on, then off, the list of military bases to be closed. But whatever the depot's future, its contents must be destroyed as part of the Pentagon's program to eradicate chemical weapons.
Residents' responses to the incinerator plan have been ambivalent. In recent months a group called Families Concerned About Nerve Gas Incineration has been formed to fight the plan, arguing for an 18-month delay while alternatives are researched. The group fears that incomplete burning of the chemicals could fill the air over Anniston with poisons, some of which were designed to be deadly in vapor form.
On the other side, a group called S.P.R.I.N.G., for Supporting Proven Reliable Incineration of Nerve Gas, supports building the incinerator as soon as possible. They argue that many of the chemical containers, including weapons canisters and drums, are deteriorating and represent a greater danger than incineration.
 
Perilous Choices
 "Everyone supports the army depot and wants to see it stay open," Jeri Higginbotham, a teacher at a nearby college, said as she left the meeting of opposition group. "But we have a tough choice: Do we live next door to a toxic-materials storage facility, or next door to a toxic-waste incinerator." She said she also planned to attend the next meeting of the supporters' group.
For Mr. Penny, the choice is clear. Over the years, he said, he had watched the slow deterioration of the containers holding the chemical weapons, and he had supervised periodic cleanups, neutralizations and disposals of small amounts of chemicals that had leaked. He said his neighbors would be "scared to death" if they knew how toxic the chemicals were and how rapidly they could spread.
The Anniston depot is one of eight storage sites around the country for obsolete chemical weapons developed as far back as World War II. At a ninth site in the Pacific Ocean on Johnston Atoll, just south of Honolulu, the Pentagon also stores chemicals and operates an incinerator.
The Pentagon does not discuss the size of the stockpile of chemical and nerve agents, but critics who have studied the incineration program estimate the total at between 60 million and 70 million pounds. The bulk of the chemicals, 42 percent, are stored at the isolated Tooele Army Depot in north central Utah. About 7.1 percent, or as much as 5 million pounds, are stored at Anniston, where close to 100,000 people live within a 30-mile radius of the depot.
 
Alternatives Under Study
 The Pentagon, arguing that the chemicals are too dangerous to transport, plans to build incinerators at each storage site, then destroy them after the chemicals have been burned. An incinerator is nearing completion at the Utah facility, and site preparation has been completed here while the Army awaits final state approval. But Congress has delayed construction at the six other mainland sites while researchers study alternatives, like rendering the agents safer by mixing them with neutralizing chemicals.
Many here doubt the Pentagon's pledge to destroy the incinerator once the Anniston stockpile is gone.
"If you build it, it will stay," predicted Ben Haskell, one of the organizers of the opponents' group. Envisioning a field of nightmares, Mr. Haskell and other opponents fear that instead of being decommissioned, an incinerator would be used to destroy stockpiles in Kentucky, Maryland and Indiana.
Rudy Noll, a retired Army colonel and one of the organizers of S.P.R.I.N.G., said that trucking chemical weapons from other sites would unify supporters and opponents of the incinerator. Other supporters agreed, but they said they trusted the military to demolish the facility.
Marilyn Tischbin, a spokeswoman for the Army's chemical disposal program, said tests have shown that burning the agents is safe. She repeated the military's pledge to tear down the Anniston plant as soon as the Anniston-based agents were destroyed.
Among those who doubt that pledge is Craig Williams, a member of the Kentucky Environmental Foundation and one of the founders of a group in Richmond, Ky., that succeeded in blocking construction of an incinerator to burn the stockpiles at the Lexington Blue Grass Army Depot.
Mr. Williams, who came to Anniston to help the local opposition get started, said that in the last several months new international treaty negotiations on chemical and nerve agents have included broadening the categories that would have to be destroyed. His group estimates that future treaties could force the destruction of items stored at 200 military sites in 37 states, increasing the pressure on the Pentagon to keep existing incinerators open and perhaps even build scores more.
Such scenarios leave many residents wondering if Anniston, after living with chemical weapons for more than three decades, could survive an incinerator.
"So many people would just leave if this thing is built," said Brenda Lindell, a member of the opponents' group. "Who would want to move here? I think the community would just die."

GRAPHIC: Photo: While the residents of Anniston, Ala., argue over what should be done with the stockpile of chemical weapons stored there, the answer is clear to Curtis Penny, who worked at the army depot for 32 years. At a public meeting, he took the floor to warn that they must be destroyed as soon as possible. (Mike Clemmer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ANNISTON ARMY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANNISTON ARMY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ANNISTON (ALA) UNITED STATES (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INCINERATORS ARMIES (91%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (77%); COLD WAR (74%); CLOSINGS (61%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD CURTIS PENNY (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



752 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Long-Term Rates Back Near 7.5%

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Long-term interest rates, which fell sharply after the Federal Reserve cut short-term rates last summer, are rising again because of economic and political uncertainties at home and abroad. Some see the higher rates as a threat to the already sluggish economic recovery.
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond inched back up toward 7.5 percent yesterday in very volatile trading. The yield has leaped more than a quarter of a percentage point in just two weeks, to 7.48 percent yesterday, as a host of negative factors have beset the market, including the dollar's fall yesterday to a new low against the Japanese yen. [D21.] 
 The surge in yields, several traders and analysts said, marks the end for now of the rally that had pushed the yield on the 30-year bond down from 7.74 percent on July 1 to a six-year low of 7.21 percent on Sept. 8. That could not have come at a worse time for the economy, and, probably, the re-election hopes of President Bush.
 
Responding to the Fed
 Short-term interest rates are at their lowest level in nearly 30 years because they are the ones most directly affected by the Fed's action in cutting its Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other on short-term borrowings, to 3 percent.
But long-term interest rates, even at their recent lows, did not come down enough to satisfy economic policy makers or to give key sectors of the economy, like housing and construction, the lift that might have sparked a broader recovery.
"A near-term backup in long-term yields will add to the doubts about the strength of growth in the coming quarters," John Lipsky, chief economist at Salomon Brothers, said.
 
Blow to Homeowners
 The end of the rally for now may also be a blow to homeowners who had been planning to refinance their mortgages to take advantage of the sharp drop in rates in the last two months. The savings in lower monthly mortgage payments from such refinancing could help spur consumer spending, although that apparently did not happen after the wave of refinancings at the beginning of the year.
Lawrence Waldorf, a bond portfolio manager for the First Investors Management Company, said he had given up hope for now of a 7 percent yield on the Treasury bond and sold the last $25 million of his Treasury securities yesterday. Just six weeks ago, he was predicting 7 percent by the end of the year.
"The dream is gone until at least the first quarter of 1993," he said. "It is now a no-win situation for bond investors," he added, arguing that even the kind of bad economic news that usually lifts the bond market -- like higher unemployment or sluggish retail sales -- would have little impact in the face of other uncertainties.
Among the dream slayers are the upheaval in the currency markets in Europe; the growing attractiveness of foreign bond markets because of the expectation of falling interest rates abroad; the uncertainty of the Presidential election; a growing belief that Gov. Bill Clinton could win, and the fear of a large economic stimulus package that could reignite inflation.
The external problems are overwhelming the economic fundamentals of slow growth and low inflation that are good for the bond market, although many analysts, including Mr. Lipsky, think these fundamentals can still bring yields back down again.
"For now, market participants have become more concerned about near-term uncertainties like politics at home and turmoil in markets abroad," he said.
 
Falling Out of Favor
 Norman Robertson, chief economist for the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh, said, "The United States is suddenly not the favorite of international investors, who stand to reap more benefits from falling interest rates in their own countries."
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities, is not worried about inflation. But he sees why some investors might be.
"Fundamentally, please, inflation is not a threat right now," he argued. "But if you want to assume that you are going to have a fiscal stimulus package and that Congress is going to overdo it, you might think there is going to be some inflationary pressure."
For the rally to revive now, William Pike, the managing director who runs Chemical Securities, said the economy would have to start a new move downward, which he does not expect.
"With Clinton, the market expects a heavy dose of fiscal stimulus," he said. "And with long yields back near 7.5 percent, it is a long way to 7 percent. So I don't see that happening in the near future."
 
Treasury Market
 In late trading in the secondary market, the 7.25 percent 30-year bond was offered at 978/32 , down 4/32 , to yield 7.48 percent, its highest yield since late July. The prices of Treasury notes also fell.
While yesterday's decline in the price of the 30-year bond was modest, the bond was off almost a point and a half on Tuesday, in part because of the unexpectedly strong increase in housing starts in August. In two days, the yield jumped from 7.32 percent to 7.48 percent.
Also yesterday, the Treasury held the second test of a new auction system in its sale of five-year notes. The results, traders said, were far worse for the Treasury than in the trial at the two-year note sale Tuesday.
Under the system being tested, all securities are awarded to dealers at the lowest price or the highest yield. Under the system still being used in other auctions, the awards are based on the dealer bids, which means one dealer can pay more than another. The purpose of the single-price system is to encourage aggressive bidding because dealers do not have to fear paying too much.
In yesterday's auction of $10.5 billion of five-year notes, demand was very light and the yield was 5.54 percent. But at the time of the bidding deadline, 1 P.M., the yield in the pre-auction or when-issued market was just below 5.51 percent, which means the cost for the Treasury was much higher than the market sentiment at the time the bids were submitted.
Some traders said it appeared that after one day of practice with the new system, bidders were worried that all dealers might be too aggressive in their bidding and that in the end, they would actually pay more than they wanted.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of five-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Median Yield . . . 5.50%
High Yield . . . 5.54%
Low price 99.827 Low Yield . . . 5.45%
Accepted at high yield . . . 57%
Total applied for . . . $23,790,695
Accepted . . . $10,513,792
N.Y. applied for . . . $22,176,957
N.Y. accepted . . . $9,731,557
Noncompetitive . . . $552,000
Interest set at . . . 5 1/2%
 
The two-year notes mature Sept. 30, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "5-Year Treasury Notes" shows the average yields at quarterly auction in 1991 and 1992. (Source: Treasury Department); "Freddie Mac Yields" shows the average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificated, in percent from June-Sept., 1992. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) (pg. D20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (85%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); INTERBANK LENDING (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



753 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: OVERRIDE VOTE SET ON FAMILY LEAVE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Reacting to President Bush's late-night veto of family-leave legislation, Democratic leaders in the Senate today scheduled an override vote on the politically contentious bill for Thursday.
The legislation would require larger companies to grant at least 12 weeks of unpaid leave to any employee to deal with a birth or adoption or family emergencies like a parent's or spouse's sickness. 
 Democrats criticized Mr. Bush's veto as a betrayal of the family values theme the Republican ticket has been espousing in the Presidential campaign. Congressional Republicans, on the other hand, went on the defensive by pressing for the alternative Mr. Bush has proposed: a tax credit for employers who let workers have unpaid time off in family emergencies.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said the veto would be overridden "if enough Republican members of Congress support the needs of working parents struggling to deal with their dual responsibility to their families and their jobs."
Mr. Bush has yet to lose a veto battle with the Democrats who control Congress, and there is little suggestion that this legislation, which was passed earlier this month by vote of 241 to 161 that is well short of the two-thirds needed to override a veto, would break that pattern. The bill passed the Senate on a voice vote in August.
 
Late-Night Timing
 The battle over the legislation is far more intense in the world of Presidential politics than it is in Congress, and the timing of Mr. Bush's veto on Tuesday night -- hours after the network television news programs had been broadcast -- suggested that the White House was seeking as little publicity for its action as possible.
In a written statement issued about 9 P.M. Tuesday near the end of 15 hours of campaigning, Mr. Bush said he supported the concept of family leave but rejected the legislation because the financial burden it would impose on business would further dampen the growth of the economy and new jobs.
Today, Mr. Bush worked a defense of his veto into a campaign day devoted to depicting his opponent, Gov. Bill Clinton, as an advocate of governmental social engineering programs that would hurt business.
Mr. Bush said he supported the concept of businesses giving unpaid leave to workers who needed time off for medical reasons or the birth of a child, but he added: "I'm not going to do what the liberal Congress wants me to do, slap another mandate on business's back. I am not going to do that.
"I believe in family leave, and I believe our approach to facilitate family leave through tax credits is a far better way than putting new mandates on a guy who is struggling to make ends meet."
 
Little Chance of Action Soon
 Mr. Bush formulated his tax credit proposal soon after the House passed the Democratic measure, and White House officials have acknowledged that there was little chance it wouldreceive any real consideration, much less actual passage, before Election Day.
When the President vetoed a family-leave measure in 1990, saying he opposed the idea of requiring businesses to provide leaves, he did not offer an alternative bill.
The timing of the veto announcement was criticized by Mr. Clinton on Tuesday night, and he attacked the veto again today on a campaign bus tour in Georgia, saying: "Seventy-two countries have a family- and medical-leave act. We're being told by this President we can't. I was taught to believe that America was the we-can country."
The bill passed by Congress is broadly similar to the one Mr. Bush vetoed in 1990. It requires companies with 50 or more workers to grant employees unpaid leave to care for a sick child, parent or spouse, or for their own medical needs, like pregnancy, as well as requiring that employees' health insurance remain in force during such a leave.
It would not apply to employees who work fewer than 25 hours a week and would allow the exclusion of workers in the top 10 percent of the pay scale. Those restrictions limit the bill's coverage mostly to the largest employers, about 5 percent of companies, employing roughly half of the nation's workers.
 
Bush's Argument
 Mr. Bush said last week in New Jersey that he believed family leave was an idea whose time was nigh. But he contended that most large companies already offered family leave to their workers and that the legislation would place an undue regulatory burden on those that did not. That would cost money, slow employment growth and eventually hurt some families the bill sought to help, he said then.
He also argued that the legislation might lead companies to break the law by practicing job discrimination against women, even though the legislation applies equally to men and to women.
"Think of the impact mandated family leave has on hiring decisions," he told a meeting of A.T. &T. employees and women service organizations on Friday. "I know it's not supposed to happen, but how many employers will think, why not hire a man instead of a woman? He won't leave to care for a child. He won't leave to care for his family. And this is illegal, and we must enforce the law. But mandated family leave could encourage this subtle kind of discrimination."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; FAMILY LEAVES; MATERNITY AND PATERNITY LEAVES; VETOES (US); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); FAMILY (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); FAMILY LEAVE (91%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PARENTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PATERNITY LEAVE (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); LEGAL PATERNITY (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); ENGINEERING (50%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



754 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Fed Study Finds Modest Economic Upturn

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve today issued a modestly upbeat assessment of business conditions around the country, stating, "Economic activity has been improving slowly in most of the nation."
The report, the Fed's last summary of regional economies before the election, found weakening conditions only in the areas covered by its San Francisco and Chicago district banks. 
 "Cleveland, Dallas, Kansas City, Philadelphia and Richmond report modestly improved conditions in their districts," said the report, known as the "beige book" for the color of its cover.
"The remaining districts generally reported a continuation of slowly expanding activity," it said.
Although today's report included cautions -- such as "the pace of recovery has been uneven across many regions and sectors" -- it was slightly more positive than the last beige book, released on Aug. 5.
"Retail sales are reported steady or slightly higher by most districts, but auto sales are lackluster," it said. "Manufacturing activity has weakened in autos, aerospace, and defense-related industries. Outside these sectors, however, improvement is noted in orders, production and sales."
The Fed report was compiled from information gathered by its 12 regional banks, based on interviews with business people conducted before Sept. 15. It will be used by monetary policy makers when they meet on Oct. 6 to review their interest-rate polices.
Today's report also noted that farming conditions were good in most areas and that housing construction "appears to be improving slowly . . . particularly in low to mid-priced housing." It said nonresidential construction remained weak.
It said Hurricane Andrew probably would stimulate construction and other economic activity in Florida and Louisiana. The storm has put little upward pressure on prices, except for lumber and natural gas, it said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (78%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); NATURAL GAS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%); RETAIL SALES (68%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



755 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Blue-Chip Stocks Extend Losing Streak

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks extended their losing streak to three sessions yesterday as investors found plenty of reasons to stay on the defensive.
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 2.16 points to close at 3,278.69. Decliners outnumbered gainers, 950 to 767, on active volume of 205.4 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 Concerns over corporate financial results, Presidential politics, world interest rates and crumbling European economic unity combined to deter buyers, analysts said.
The dollar dropped to a new low against the Japanese yen in early trading, but by the end of the dayit had recovered some ground.
The Federal Reserve's "beige book" survey said the economy was improving slowly but at an uneven pace, a report that provided little fresh insight for the markets.
"We're just not seeing any response," said Alice Sadlo, a first vice president at McDonald & Company. "I don't sense any urgency to get involved."
She said the strong responses to the earnings forecasts of individual companies indicated that "people are starting to look at the bottom line again."
 
Downturn of Prized Issues
 Robert Stovall, president of Stovall/21st Advisers, detected a breakdown in stocks that were previously prized as issues unlikely to be hurt by an economic downturn.
Coca-Cola is a prime example, he said. "That seemed to be impervious to market jitters, but it has broken down," he said. "Coke has been one of the flagship growth stocks."
Coca-Cola lost 1 1/2, to 40 3/4, continuing a decline after the company said Tuesday that its third-quarter sales would be dampened by weak overseas markets.
Investors were also keeping a watch on the Presidential election, which has been clouded once again by the Texas billionaire Ross Perot, who has indicated that he will take a more active role in the election after bowing out of the race.
Video Lottery Technologies dropped 10, to 14, a plunge of 41 percent. Several analysts cut their ratings on the maker of video lottery systems after it lost its license in Australia.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 0.30, to 417.44. The American Stock Exchange index lost 1.08, to 379.91. The Nasdaq index lost 0.04, to 582.96.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (91%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); MCDONALD INVESTMENTS INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (91%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); LOTTERIES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); POLITICS (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



756 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Sales of U.S.-Built Cars and Light Trucks Off 3.1%

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Sales of domestically built cars and light trucks, burdened by weak results at the General Motors Corporation, fell 3.1 percent in mid-September, according to company reports released today.
Car sales alone by the Big Three and Japanese companies with American operations dropped 7.3 percent, to 134,283, while light-truck sales, which include sales of mini-vans, sports-utility vehicles and pickups, rose 3.4 percent, to 98,005. Overall sales of domestically built cars and light trucks totaled 232,288. 
 The seasonally adjusted annual rate of car sales was 6.1 million, compared with 6 million in early September and 6.4 million last year at this time.
Ronald Glantz, automotive analyst for Dean Witter in San Francisco, called the sales disappointing. Mr. Glantz said an informal survey of dealers suggested that showroom traffic had been fairly strong, but the rate of closed deals among prospective buyers had been poor. "People are uneasy over economic prospects," he said.
G.M.'s car sales were off 13.6 percent in the 10-day period that ended on Sept. 20, to 58,221, and the company's light-truck sales were down 5.8 percent, to 36,447 for the period.
Antonette Simonetti, a G.M. spokeswoman, said the auto maker had intentionally curtailed incentives to daily-rental companies on car models. "But our retail sales" to individuals "are steady," she said.
An important reason for G.M.'s overall weakness has been continuing soft sales by Chevrolet, the company's biggest division. Chevy's car sales were off 28.8 percent in mid-September; its light-truck sales were off 10.9 percent.
Selling fewer cars to daily-rental fleets appears to be only part of Chevy's problem. Dealers have complained that Chevrolet's car models are dated. Thomas Castriota, general manager of Castriota Chevrolet Geo in Pittsburgh, said: "The Cavalier came out in 1982. Some of the cars Lumina competes against have been updated."
 
Signs of Growth Are Seen
 Jim Perkins, general manager of Chevrolet/Geo, said, "We see some signs of growth, but no volcanic eruption." Speaking at an introduction of 1993 Chevrolet models in Rochester Hills, Mich., Mr. Perkins introduced a new Geo Prizm, which is based on the Toyota Corolla, and showed slides of redesigned Chevy car and truck models to be introduced during the next year.
The Ford Motor Company, meanwhile, once more gained market share by bucking the industry's weak sales trend. Sales of Ford's domestic car models rose 11.3 percent, to 40,006, and sales of Ford's light trucks rose 12.4 percent, to 34,669.
The Chrysler Corporation's sales of cars were estimated by Ward's Automotive Reports at 11,900, down 13.6 percent, and the company's light-truck sales were put at 19,900, down five-tenths of 1 percent. Chrysler reports its sales only on a monthly basis.
The Honda Motor Company, feeling the effects of a stronger yen and resulting higher prices, posted a 25.9 percent drop in car sales, to 11,900. The Toyota Motor Corporation, however, showed a 21.1 percent gain in car sales, to 6,761; Toyota, in its first year of domestic light-truck production, reported sales of 2,001 for the period.
The Nissan Motor Company's car sales rose 12.2 percent, to 2,642; Nissan's light-truck sales fell 21.5 percent, to 2,982.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING AUTOMOTIVE SALES (94%); MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (79%); MINIVANS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P THOMAS CASTRIOTA (61%); RONALD GLANTZ (61%); JIM PERKINS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



757 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
Bush and Bounty

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Today, President Bush offered a $20 billion tax break to small businesses. Last week, it was $500 million a year to companies that give workers time off in family emergencies. Before that, it was a 1 percentage point across-the-board reduction in tax rates for individuals.
And these are just the tax cuts Mr. Bush has proposed since the White House published its mid-year budget review in July. All told, the tax breaks he has put forth in his election campaign would cost the Government about $165 billion in lost revenue over the next five years. 
 That does not count the tax credits and deductions Mr. Bush would allow so that people could get medical insurance, a cost that could easily reach $20 billion a year. Nor does it count the tens of billions more he says he would spend for job training and for tuition payments for students in private schools.
It is not unusual for Presidential candidates to make generous promises as the election approaches. But Mr. Bush does so in the same breath that he advocates a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget and at a time when the Federal deficit is about $350 billion, the highest ever.
 
Clinton Promises, Too
 Mr. Bush's Democratic opponent, Gov. Bill Clinton, also makes big promises: $20 billion a year for public works, medical care for all, an expanded student loan program, tax cuts for the middle class, continued spending on popular weapons programs. And some of the Governor's arithmetic is almost as shaky as Mr. Bush's. But Mr. Clinton does talk about both the specific taxes he would raise and much deeper reductions in military spending than the President wants.
And Mr. Clinton does not promise to balance the budget, only to cut the deficit in half over four years.
Mr. Bush, of course, is sworn against tax increases. He says merely that his tax cuts would be balanced by spending reductions; he almost never says which ones. He did not say today, for example, how the country could afford $20 billion in tax relief for small businesses.
A senior White House official said the new tax proposal would be more than offset by $132 billion in spending cuts that Mr. Bush has recommended over the years and that have been rejected by Congress.
 
Cut What? and Where?
 There are several problems with that figure:
The first is that the White House and the Bush campaign have no list of programs that are included in the $132 billion total. Only $72 billion of the cuts are in the budget for the next fiscal year, of which $38 billion results from an accounting gimmick.
The second problem is that Mr. Bush no longer advocates some cuts he favored early in his Administration that are presumably included in the $132 billion. For example, two years ago, he recommended cutting price-support payments to farmers by $20 billion. Congress approved about $15 billion, but less than $1 billion of the remaining cuts are included in next year's budget.
Finally, and perhaps most important, the President's staff uses the same $132 billion figure to show how they would pay for tax cuts, how they would reduce the budget deficit and how they would finance such election-year plums as the reconstruction of Homestead Air Force Base in South Florida.
But this is not the full extent of Mr. Bush's budgetary sleight of hand. He said he favors putting a cap on all mandatory spending programs except Social Security so they could rise no more than the rate of inflation and the rate of increase in the eligible population. Such a cap, he said, would save the Government $294 billion over the next five years.
 
Shrinking Mandatory Programs
 Mandatory programs, also called entitlements, are those like Medicare, Medicaid, veterans benefits, food stamps and agricultural price supports that pay benefits automatically to everyone who is eligible. They make up about three-fifths of the Federal budget, and almost all economists think that they somehow should be reined in.
But here is the rub with Mr. Bush's plan: He offers no clue how it would work, nothing that would give any voter any indication that a favored benefit might be sliced.
Mr. Bush has never said, for example, whether the cap would apply to the total of all mandatory programs or to each individually. If it is the total he is talking about, then the unanswered question is, "Which programs would be permitted to grow and which ones would shrink?" If each program would be individually capped, who would become ineligible and whose benefits would be reduced? Would the Government simply stop writing checks part way through the year? Mr. Bush never says.
Medicare and Medicaid, by far the largest mandatory programs besides Social Security, have been growing at about 13 percent a year, more than three times the rate of inflation. Does Mr. Bush have some plan he has not announced to lower medical costs? Or would the elderly and the poor find that some of their medical bills were not covered?
 
No Time for Bad News
 Mr. Clinton's accounting is also open to question. His pledge to cut the budget deficit in half over the next four years is based largely on the optimistic assumption that the economy will grow somewhat faster than Congressional authorities and most private economists anticipate. A promise to collect more taxes from foreign corporations based in the United States is probably more smoke than substance. And promises to save billions by cutting administrative costs throughout the Government and improving management of the savings and loan bailout are probably not realistic.
Like most other politicians, Mr. Clinton almost never delivers bad news. In the Middle West, he says he will continue generous farm subsidies. In Florida, he promises no cuts in Social Security or Medicare. And when he arrives in a community where weapons systems are built, he becomes outright hawkish.
He tells voters in Michigan and Ohio, for instance, that he would continue to build the M1-A1 tank. He tells those in Fort Worth that he supports continued production of the V-22 Osprey, the troubled craft that takes off like a helicopter and flies like an airplane. And he says in Connecticut that he supports building the Seawolf nuclear submarine.
The biggest gap in Mr. Clinton's calculations involves medical insurance. He calls medical care "a right, not a privilege," and he promises an insurance package that includes coverage for nursing-home care and prescription drugs for every American.
Mr. Clinton says the price to the Government, perhaps $30 billion or $40 billion a year, would be offset by controlling medical costs, but he has not offered a fully developed cost-control plan. His staff says that if the health-care plan proved to be too expensive, it might have to be phased in over several years, a caveat that Mr. Clinton himself does not make in his stump speeches.
But that said, Mr. Clinton has put out the most complete tax and spending figures of any recent Presidential challenger. If they do not add up, they are not nearly so far off as President Bush's.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush received a wet but enthusiastic welcome from supporters yesterday as he arrived for a campaign visit to Greensboro, N.C. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); GOVERNORS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); TUITION FEES (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); STUDENT LOANS (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



758 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
In Their Own Words

 BODY:

PRESIDENT BUSH
In a speech yesterday at Penn State University in University Park, Pa.
"And, yes, I want a debate. I want a debate over issues and an argument over ideas, and I will stand on my record, and I won't let that Arkansas Governor run away from his record, either.
You know, I think the American people have a right to know what they're buying into because, remember, if you buy what candidate Clinton is selling, there's no refund, there's no rebate. Actually it's more like a permanent payment plan, and I don't think we need that for the United States of America.
On one issue, and I think it's the fundamental issue in this campaign, my opponent and I have just agreed to disagree. It's a question of how our economy grows and how our country works, and it's kind of like 'Jeopardy.' It all comes down to how you ask the question. And my opponent asks, what makes the economy grow? And his answer, and look at his program, is government planners and projects and programs.
And I ask, who makes this country grow? And my answer is you, the individual working men and women, building and buying a freedom of the market."
 
GOV. BILL CLINTON
In a speech yesterday in Columbus, Ga.
"There are people like that all over the world who are struggling to develop the capacity to have nuclear technology; to be able to drop chemical weapons; to be able to drop biological weapons on their people, on other people.
We cannot risk that happening. So there are significant challenges to us in the world we are living in. What does that mean? I conclude that it means we need not so many people in uniform as we used to have. We need not so many people in Europe as we used to have, because the Europeans don't face the imminent threat of a large Soviet Army marching across Eastern Europe into Western Europe. We need not so much money spent on the space-based portion of 'Star Wars,' but we do need to focus on greater training and mobility of our forces, on land, in the air and on the sea; and on maintaining the enormous technological lead we have in the development of both tactical defenses and defensive weapons.
Which means we have to maintain a strong infrastructure of technology in this country. And we have to continue to train, equip, and work with our military forces at a smaller level to make sure they are still the strongest, the best, and now the most mobile in the world, hopefully being able always to be used in cooperation with our allies.
That is the defense plan I have put forward to the American people in this election. It will require us to spend less money that we are now spending. But I think it will give us a stronger national defense than Mr. Bush's proposed budget."
 
VICE PRESIDENT DAN QUAYLE
In a speech at a rally yesterday in Fort Worth, Tex.
 "As the case of military service makes most clear, these differing positions are, in fact, more than mere flip-flops. They reflect a fundamental element of Governor Clinton's character: the triumph of expediency over principle, of convenience over truth. Governor Clinton says he is the candidate of change, but he truly is the changing candidate.
Don't get me wrong. If you are in public life, sooner or later some variation will creep into the record. Sometimes, leaders genuinely change their minds or they may alter course in the best interest of the nation. It's one thing to take a political risk in the hope of helping your country. But it's another matter to change your position to avoid political risk in the hope of helping yourself.
One lesson we've learned over the past two centuries is the need for strong character in our Presidents. This country has prevailed in rough times when our leaders have adhered firmly to principle and truth. But when our Presidents have vacillated or lied or attempted to be all things to all people, then we have lost national confidence and steered toward crisis."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, GA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: UNIFORM AS (65%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, GA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ARMIES (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); WOMEN WORKERS (68%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



759 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Loss Seen For Bon-Ton; Stock Drops

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Shares of Bon-Ton Stores Inc. lost more than a third of their value yesterday after the retailer painted a bleak picture of its third-quarter earnings prospects and announced the departure of its president.
The company said aggressive cost-cutting to clear excessive inventory, coupled with sluggish sales during the back-to school season, would probably result in a loss per share of 12 to 18 cents. 
 The stock closed down $2.50, at $4.75, a loss of 34.5 percent. The percentage decline was the second largest on the Nasdaq national system.
 
 
Executive Stepping Aside
 Bon-Ton also said E. Herbert Ross, the president and chief operating officer, who has been in charge of merchandising and marketing, would step aside on Friday.
M. Thomas Grumbacher, the company's vice chairman and chief executive and a member of the family that founded Bon-Ton, will assume Mr. Ross's responsibilities for merchandising, marketing and stores.
While Bon-Ton has worked to pare its expenses and has few direct competitors in the markets where it operates, as a department store it still has higher overhead costs than competing mass merchants and specialty shops. The Northeast's weak economy has also buffeted its 34 stores scattered in Maryland, West Virginia, western New York and Pennsylvania.
 
 
Analysts Surprised
 The handful of analysts who follow the company, which went public in October, said they knew Bon-Ton's business had been slow in the third quarter and expected earnings of about 3 cents a share. But all of them said they thought the company had worked its way through the deep inventory it had accumulated in anticipation of stronger summer sales.
"We went into the first quarter of 1992 with more inventory than we should have from the holidays and had already committed to an aggressive spring and summer," said Michael L. Gleim, senior executive vice president and chief administrative officer. "As it turned out, there wasn't any spring or summer for us ."
He said the company had planned conservatively for the fourth quarter but expected a tough battle for profits. "The holiday season is going to be fiercely competitive this year, -- more so than usual," Mr. Gleim said.
 Robert Buchanan, a retail analyst at Alex. Brown & Sons Inc., cut his earnings estimates to 35 cents a share for the current year, from 70 cents, and reduced his 1993 estimates to 62 cents a share, from 95 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BONT (NASDAQ) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); MARYLAND, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: BON-TON STORES INC BON-TON STORES INC (95%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: BON-TON STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); MARYLAND, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS RETAILERS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (62%); 

PERSON: ROSS, E HERBERT; GRUMBACHER, M THOMAS M THOMAS GRUMBACHER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



760 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Shaver Maker Announces Refinancing

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., Sept. 23

 BODY:
For two years, the Remington Products factory that fronts Long Island Sound here has been in trouble. Workers were laid off, raises were foregone, and the possibility of a foreign buyout, one that would move every last Remington job out of Bridgeport, hovered persistently.
But last week, the company and Connecticut officials held a festive rally at which they announced happy news: thanks to a $15 million loan guarantee from the state, various banks had been persuaded to refinance Remington's $100 million debt, and the company's 1,100 employees would be staying put. About 100 white-collar employees had been let go during the last two years.
 
Jobs to Be Added
 In fact, jubilant company spokesmen said, the refinancing would enable Remington, which makes shavers and travel products, to move between 50 and 100 jobs to Bridgeport from factories in Japan and Hong Kong, where some women's shavers were assembled. 
 It was certainly a relief to workers at the factory here. Most of them are women, mothers and mortgage holders, who painstakingly assemble electric shavers on long lines inside an ancient building once used as a car-manufacturing plant for the luxury Locomobile earlier this century.
"I'm happy it's settled," said Mary Shirley Knapp, who has worked at Remington for 52 years and is in charge of checking the finished product for flaws. "This is like a home."
American flags and prayer cards decorate some work stations, and with Halloween looming next month, several workers have made grinning jack-o'-lanterns from orange paper used to cushion parts as they are installed.
 
A $1 Billion Fund
 The Remington deal is the largest of a series of moves made by Connecticut officials under a program begun this summer called Connecticut Works, under which the State Legislature set aside $1 billion for loan guarantees and, occasionally, loans at market rates.
Faced with high unemployment -- Connecticut has lost at least 185,000 jobs since 1989 -- keeping companies in the state has become an urgent priority. So much so, in fact, that Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. usually appears at ceremonies announcing seemingly small triumphs for the program: 70 jobs here, 30 jobs there.
Amid frenetic regional competition for jobs, New York and New Jersey have parallel programs, although those states have not allocated as much money as has Connecticut. In New Jersey, a loan-guarantee program begun in the mid-1970's has made about $100 million available to small businesses, said Rose Smith, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Economic Development Authority. And today, Gov. Jim Florio announced that New Jersey would join private investors in a $25 million venture-capital fund to invest in developing high-technology companies. The fund will be called the Garden State Growth Fund.
The New York Job Development Authority offers loans and loan guarantees to businesses of all sizes, said Steven Vitoff, a spokesman for the State Office of Economic Development. From April to July of this year, he said, $46 million was provided. "In an ideal world, there wouldn't be a need to be so concerned about interstate mobility," Mr. Vitoff said, "but we're very much aware that companies often look at other states, and it's obviously important to New York's economy to keep them here."
During the last two years, Remington has struggled against a declining economy and under a load of debt, much of it recent and with interest rates higher than current market rates.
 
A Warm Reception
 The privately held company's chief executive officer, Victor Kiam, who has appeared in television commercials extolling his own products, put the company up for sale in December. All the potential buyers, said Bruce Gold, Remington's general manager, were overseas companies that would have closed the Bridgeport factory and manufactured Remington products abroad. When Remington executives asked the state for help, they got a warm reception, both sides said.
"Remington is a financially successful company with a well-known product that has much future potential," said Joe Cohen, a spokesman for the State Department of Economic Development, which runs the Connecticut Works program. The fund, established last June, is the largest of its kind in the country, he said.
Mr. Kiam's exploits with the money-losing New England Patriots football team, which he bought in 1989 and sold this spring, had no bearing on the state's decision to support the Remington refinancing, Mr. Cohen said. "They are very separate enterprises," he said. "Remington has benefited tremendously by having Victor Kiam at the helm. And I don't think you could say the same thing about the New England Patriots."
However, once Mr. Kiam sold his 51 percent stake in the team, his refinancing plan became more appealing to banks. After the state promised to guarantee $15 million through People's Bank, another Bridgeport-based business, other loans followed, including a $45 million line of credit from Congress Financial Corporation in Boston and other banks.
At least two workers at the Remington factory said the simultaneous ownership of the Patriots and the shaver company had harmed the company. "In two years, we haven't gotten a raise," said Maria Morales, whose job is sharpening the blades that go into Remington shavers, and who was eating lunch at an outdoor picnic table with a co-worker, Carmen Saravia. "They said it was the economy, and also because of Kiam buying the Patriots."
As times got tough, certain company benefits disappeared, the two women said. "There's no children's Christmas party anymore," said Mrs. Morales, a Bridgeport resident. "I was always a clown at the children's party. I was very upset."
But some frills remain, like the adults' party and the Thanksgiving turkey, together with cranberry and a tin of butter cookies, for every employee, she added. "I'm very glad to work there," she said, her pink blouse spattered with gray machinery grime. "I have a dirty job, but it's good."
Last week, company officials said, hundreds of people lined up to apply for the new jobs Remington hopes to add later this fall.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A refinancing package announced yesterday will allow Remington Products to stay in Bridgeport, Conn. "I'm happy it's settled," said Mary Shirley Knapp, above, a Remington worker for 52 years. "This is like a home." (David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3634 ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES & FANS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: REMINGTON PRODUCTS CO NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: REMINGTON PRODUCTS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRIDGEPORT (CONN) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SHAVING AND SHAVERS; CREDIT; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS EMPLOYMENT (90%); ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); HALLOWEEN (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L VICTOR KIAM (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



761 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: California;
For Bush, California Seems a Lost Cause

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Republicans have all but given up on winning California for President Bush, essentially writing off the largest electoral prize of all to Gov. Bill Clinton.
Although Mr. Bush carried California in 1988, he has never played particularly well on the West Coast, and his standing has sunk to historic lows in this state, where, on his watch, the economy has turned from the nation's most vibrant to a basket case. In addition, Republican messages on abortion and "family values" have alienated many voters. 
 New public polls show a commanding lead for Mr. Clinton, regardless of any move by Ross Perot to re-enter the race, confirming the grim news that Republican consultants find in their private polling.
Publicly, Gov. Pete Wilson, the titular head of the Bush campaign here, and other California Republican leaders express optimism that the President can still overcome a deficit of about 20 points in what Mr. Wilson calls a "volatile" race for the state's 54 electoral votes.
But privately, barring a major gaffe by Mr. Clinton or damaging new personal disclosures about him, Republican strategists here are now focusing on Congressional and state legislative races. They fear that a Bush disaster will prevent the big gains they considered possible after reapportionment.
 
The Candidate as Stranger
 While the Bush campaign asserts that its California effort is unabated, Mr. Bush has made only one campaign trip here since his nomination in mid-August, concentrating instead on closer races in the Midwest and South. He has no more visits planned; Mr. Clinton has been here nine times since his nomination in mid-July.
The Bush-Quayle camp is, of course, not expected to fold tents, if only to keep Mr. Clinton focused on California and to help Republican fund raising.
"We are certainly not writing the state off," said James Lee, spokesman for the Bush campaign here. "That would hurt Republican candidates down the line. It is still very early in the ball game."
But others say the underlying reality is clear. "I don't think Bush has a chance," said Joe Scott, editor of California Eye, a political newsletter. "We are dealing with an economic situation Californians have not dealt with in 50 years. Pocketbook issues are overshadowing single-issue concerns. Conservatives are peeling off, and Reagan Democrats are coming home."
 
Falling Away of the Faithful
 If George Bush wants to know why his chances are so dim here, he need only ask Barry Stratton, his former precinct leader in the conservative San Diego suburb of Poway. Mr. Stratton, a 37-year-old life-long Republican who works in a property management office, is now a Clinton volunteer.
"What really changed my mind was this extreme turn to the right," Mr. Stratton said. "It's what you saw at the convention. That really scared me. They want a religious war, and I don't think that's what the American people want. They want the Republican Party out of their homes, and they want to get the economy back on track."
Recent polls show that Mr. Stratton is not alone:
*The latest Field Poll, released Sept. 17, showed Mr. Clinton ahead 49 percent to 30 percent, with 14 percent favoring Ross Perot. It is a measure of Mr. Bush's troubles that this was a considerable improvement for him; in July the Field Poll had him trailing by 28 points. (The latest sample was of 1,040 Californians, 864 of them registered voters, polled Sept. 9-15.)
*A poll by The Los Angeles Times, published Sept. 15, gave Mr. Clinton a 21-point lead, whether or not Mr. Perot was a candidate. It found that 1 of every 6 Republicans and 1 of every 4 conservatives were defecting to the Democratic candidate, while only 1 in 14 Democrats planned to vote for Mr. Bush. (The Times polled 1,330 registered voters from Sept. 10 to 13.)
*The Orange County Annual Survey found the candidates almost even (41 percent for Mr. Clinton and 40 percent for Mr. Bush), even though Republicans enjoy a 20-point advantage in party registration in that traditionally conservative county. The poor economy was cited as the main factor in Mr. Bush's fall. (The survey, conducted Aug. 26-Sept. 2 by the School of Social Ecology at the University of California at Irvine, was of 1,012 county residents.)
*A poll published by the San Diego Union-Tribune on Sept. 8 showed Mr. Clinton leading Mr. Bush in San Diego County 45 percent to 39 percent. Nearly two thirds of those polled said the economy and recession were the main issues. (The poll sampled 600 registered voters from Aug. 31 to Sept. 2. Like the three polls above, this one was conducted by telephone and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three to four percentage points.)
 
Weakness Seen in 1988
 The polls in Orange and San Diego counties are particularly ominous for the President. In 1988 Mr. Bush defeated Gov. Michael S. Dukakis by a landslide nationally but carried California by only 352,684 votes out of almost 10 million cast. He won here only because he rolled up large majorities in Orange and San Diego counties to offset Democratic margins elsewhere.
Lyndon B. Johnson is the only Democrat to carry California since Harry S. Truman did in 1948.
Mr. Lee, the campaign spokesman, acknowledged that the Bush campaign had not related well to Californians so far, but said: "We are getting a sharpening of focus from the national campaign, in terms of jobs, trust and the character issue. We're having some effect."
A leading Republican strategist, Steven A. Merksamer, a Sacramento lawyer, argued that Mr. Bush could still carry the state. "Clinton does not enjoy a real base in California," he said. "There is a lot of frustration with him. A lot will come down to the debates."
But Mr. Merksamer also said that the Republican National Convention, particularly the hard-hitting speeches by Patrick J. Buchanan and Pat Robertson, was extremely damaging to the President here. "Those were at odds with the way most Californians think and were not helpful," he said.
 
Fallout in Local Races
 What concerns party consultants like Arnold Steinberg of Los Angeles is the effect of all this on Republican local candidates. "What started out as a year of tremendous opportunity because of reapportionment is turning into a year of lowering sights," Mr. Steinberg said. "We see districts considered Republican where we may now have to fight to keep them."
Based on two major recent changes in the state's political ground rules, the Republicans had had well-laid plans to gain control of the state Legislature this year. First, the voters two years ago passed a Constitutional amendment limiting terms to six years in the state Assembly and eight years in the state Senate, and many incumbents are already leaving. Then, after the 1990 census, Governor Wilson vetoed a Democratic-drawn redistricting plan, and the state Supreme Court imposed an alternative that was much more favorable to Republicans.
Democrats dominate the Assembly 47 to 33, and the leadership has fiercely battled Mr. Wilson on budget issues. Republicans had hoped a combination of redistricting and discontent with incumbents would give them an Assembly majority.
Only half of the 40 Senate seats are up for election, but Republicans hoped at least to whittle the Democratic majority; there are 24 Democrats, 13 Republicans, 2 independents and 1 vacancy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton was surrounded by supporters yesterday as his bus stopped in Parrot, Ga. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA REPUBLICAN (88%); SAN DIEGO UNION-TRIBUNE (58%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (79%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); FAMILY (71%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (69%); REDISTRICTING (66%); ABORTION (56%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



762 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Suffolk Authorizes Outlay Of $500,000 for a Ball Park

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, L.I., Sept. 23

 BODY:
Brushing aside financial constraints that have forced cuts in jobs and services, the Suffolk County Legislature voted early today to spend as much as $500,000 for design of a $7.5 million minor-league baseball stadium on the campus of the county's community college in Brentwood.
The 6,000-seat stadium, which would be completed in time for the 1994 season, would become the new home of the Albany-Colonie Yankees, an Eastern League affiliate of the New York Yankees. 
 The approval came less than a week after Robert J. Gaffney, the County Executive and a supporter of the stadium project, proposed a $1.5 billion budget for next year that would raise property taxes by nearly 20 percent.
However, county legislators who support the stadium project said a lease and profit-sharing plan worked out with the team owners would produce enough revenue to cover all of the county's costs for borrowing to build the stadium. "Financially, it will be a wash," said one legislator, Sondra M. Bachety, a Democrat from Deer Park.
Mrs. Bachety said that road and other projects would be delayed or canceled to provide the $500,000 for the planning study.
Opponents of the plan said it entailed financial risk. "Anyone who says there is a financial benefit to bringing a minor-league team here is an out-and-out liar," said the Legislature's presiding officer, Donald R. Blydenburgh, a Republican of Smithtown. "To spend the kind of money it's going to cost to build that stadium, it would be cheaper to give the money away to businesses if the idea is the economic ripple effect."
 
Ticket and Other Revenues
 But supporters said they saw benefits. "It will bring construction jobs, and the ball park would more than likely pay for itself," said a Conservative legislator, Michael D. O'Donohoe of East Northport. "The team would be an uplift, something for people to rally around, and it's good family entertainment, reasonably priced." Tickets would cost $4 to $6.50, he said.
An agreement reached at 4 A.M. today after a marathon session provides that the team will lease the stadium for $125,000 a season. In addition, the owners would pay the county half of the stadium's parking revenues and 20 percent of the gross revenues from ticket sales over $1 million. The owners would pay for utilities and maintenance.
Frank F. Boulton, a Wall Street fund manager and an owner of the team, said he expected the directors of the Eastern League, a double-A-class league, to vote on the relocation at a meeting scheduled for Oct. 3.
He said the move is also subject to approval by other minor-league and major-league officials. "I see no problem getting any of these approvals," Mr. Boulton, of Brightwaters, L.I., said.
Mr. Boulton said the owners of the team would invoke a rule that barred any other minor league team from locating within 35 miles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUFFOLK COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE; ALBANY-COLONIE YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUFFOLK COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE; ALBANY-COLONIE YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); BRENTWOOD (NY) UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MINOR LEAGUES; STADIUMS BASEBALL (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); COUNTIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); APPROVALS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); TICKET SALES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (54%); 

PERSON: FRANK F BOULTON (79%); SONDRA M BACHETY (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



763 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Administration Admits Pressuring Greenspan

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady pressured the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, to achieve a certain amount of economic growth shortly before Mr. Greenspan's renomination and thought he had received a commitment, Administration officials said today. But the officials denied that the Fed chairman had agreed to change monetary policy at Mr. Brady's behest.
Administration officials said today that in meetings in July 1991, shortly before Mr. Greenspan was renominated, Mr. Brady told the Fed chairman that he hoped the Fed would help achieve 3 percent growth in 1992. The meetings came just before President Bush renominated Mr. Greenspan to a second four-year term as chairman. 
 Joseph R. Coyne, a Federal Reserve spokesman, said today, "As far as extracting a commitment to achievea certain level of economic growth, that's nonsense."
A Treasury official said, "It's not unusual for the Treasury Secretary and the chairman to talk about the growth potential of the U.S. economy."
 
A Question of Propriety
 Economists said today that it would be highly unusual and improper for a Treasury Secretary to seek a commitment from a Federal Reserve chairman to achieve a certain level of economic growth as a quid pro quo for renomination.
The interaction between Mr. Brady and Mr. Greenspan was first reported in The Los Angeles Times today.
One Administration official confirmed that Mr. Brady, in his talks with Mr. Greenspan, had evidently misconstrued something that Mr. Greenspan had said. This official said that Mr. Brady had come away thinking that Mr. Greenspan had committed himself to changing Fed policies to reach a certain rate of growth.
Fed officials as well as economists said it would be absurd for a Federal Reserve chairman -- just one of seven members of the Federal Reserve Board -- to agree to achieve a certain level of growth because so many economic variables exist that this would be impossible.
"It's off the mark to say a commitment was asked and a commitment was given," said a Treasury official who was involved in monetary matters at the time. "What's not too off the mark was they met and talked about Fed policy." This official added that it was clear that Mr. Brady thought Mr. Greenspan was moving too slowly to lower rates. The official noted that Mr. Brady and Mr. Greenspan have long met with each other several times a month.
Mr. Coyne, the Federal Reserve spokesman, confirmed that Mr. Brady and Mr. Greenspan met in July 1991 shortly before he was renominated. "Brady did mention to the chairman that he would like interest rates lower, but he's been saying that for three years," Mr. Coyne said.
One Administration official speculated today that in their talks Mr. Greenspan might have explained to Mr. Brady that Federal Reserve members had agreed among themselves to increase the money supply by between 2.5 percent and 6.5 percent with the expectation that this would produce economic growth of 3 percent. This official said Mr. Brady might have construed this as an agreement on Mr. Greenspan's part to achieve 3 percent growth.
Several months later, the Administration energetically criticized the Federal Reserve for failing to meet the central bank's own targets for monetary growth, saying that this helped cause the economic recovery of early 1991 to sputter in the second half of the year.
According to Administration officials, four officials were in charge of recommending whether to renominate Mr. Greenspan: Mr. Brady; Richard G. Darman, the White House budget director; Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and John Sununu, the former White House chief of staff.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, left, chairman of the Federal Reserve, talking yesterday with Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the Treasury, in Washington. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM LOS ANGELES TIMES (67%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BRADY, NICHOLAS F (SEC); GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



764 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Hearing the Fears, With No Answers

SERIES: Closing Willow Run -- Second article of a series: A Union Official on the Spot.

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: YPSILANTI, Mich.

 BODY:
If the General Motors Willow Run Assembly Plant, with 4,000 hourly workers, is a small town, then Bob Harlow is the mayor. He is the president of the auto workers' Local 1776. Only now, his town is going out of business. The cars it has been building will be produced instead in Arlington, Tex. Bob Harlow's people are scared about their futures. They want answers.
When is the plant going to close? Should we move to Arlington? How do they treat blacks in Texas? If we don't go, will we get picked up at other plants in Michigan? How long will Arlington stay open? What about early retirement? What's going to happen after the contract expires? Why are they closing our plant? 
 Wherever he goes, from the union hall to the plant to the supermarket to home, Mr. Harlow, a coal miner's son who went to work on the line 27 years ago, has to tell people he doesn't know. "We'll be open for sure through the end of March," he told retirees as they met over coffee and doughnuts in the union hall. "But things could change to maybe July, August or September."
Red Evans, the financial secretary of the local, said: "When things are running smoothly, the president is about the best job in the world. Things hardly run smoothly anymore."
These days, the president is busy arranging everything from retraining sessions to suicide prevention classes. He has had to make himself an instant expert on a subject he hates -- closing down a plant.
The other morning a man who has spent more than 20 years on the assembly line took a chair in Mr. Harlow's small office at the union hall. "I have a 19-year-old retarded son," he said. "I can't move. I can't leave my son." What were his chances of getting a job at a plant in the area?
Mr. Harlow, who is 46 years old and has four children of his own, was sympathetic. But he couldn't offer any guarantees.
"All I can do is listen and tell them to get with their spouse and their children and talk it through," he said after the man left. "Some people I try to get into therapy. Families are in turmoil here. They don't know what's going to happen. They're worried about money. And when there's problems with money, love goes away."
Just because he is president of the local doesn't mean he can get answers from the company. General Motors doesn't have all the answers either. A lot depends on the economy and how many cars people buy. Willow Run is only one of 21 plants that are destined to close by 1995 as the company struggles to recover from last year's record $4.5 billion loss.
 
A Secretive Company
 But General Motors is also famous for its secrecy. It announced last February that because of overcapacity in the production of the Caprice and other large, rear-wheel-drive cars that Willow Run was building, production would be consolidated at Arlington. Sales of the Caprice were lagging badly. But the company has refused to specify its reasons for choosing Arlington.
Reporters have been barred from Willow Run since before the announcement. A request from this reporter to accompany Mr. Harlow on one of his regular visits to the plant was refused.
The company has said that most of the workers, whose average seniority is 20 years, will get jobs at other plants. About 400 men and women are expected to move to Arlington early next year. But it is still too soon to know who else will go where, or when. Everyone will receive nearly their full income, and benefits, until at least next September, when the current contract expires.
When Mr. Harlow ran for president four years ago, he had no idea he would be presiding over the demise of the local. He had only hoped to clean it up -- Local 1776's then-president, Richard Debs, was packing a gun and operating behind closed doors.
"It was very, very sleazy," said Jerry Clifton, the new bargaining chairman.
During the campaign Mr. Harlow spent his nights hiding out in his basement. "Debs put out a contract on me," he said. The F.B.I., he said, had tipped him off but said they didn't have enough evidence to offer him protection. So he bought a gun.
Another of Mr. Debs's opponents, Jesse Gray, was shot in the neck as he drove down the freeway to the plant. He had to retire on medical disability.
Mr. Debs is in prison for trying to hire two men to frighten Mr. Harlow out of running against him. He was also convicted of another crime, the sexual assault of a 12-year-old boy.
The local has cleared its name. Quality at the plant has been high. But the last car will roll off the line at the plant sometime next year. And then, if what happens in other plant closings is any precedent, Bob Harlow's local will be no more. The one-story concrete union hall, where workers hold meetings and wedding receptions, where Dolores LaFleur has had a job as a secretary for 24 years, will probably shut its doors.
Last Feb. 3, Mr. Harlow and his wife, Kathy Kelsay, who is 32, had a baby, Jonathan. On Feb. 24, the union president stood near a podium in the plant as a General Motors vice president delivered the terrible news.
"It ate my gut out," Mr. Harlow said.
Mr. Evans, the financial secretary, said the stress took 20 pounds off Mr. Harlow last spring.
But the other morning the president walked into the union hall singing a Motown tune. He wore blue jeans, a U.A.W. polo shirt, running shoes and a tiny gold replica of a Chevrolet around his neck. "We have to stay positive," he said. Some things that help: Country music on the radio of his 1990 Caprice, bowling Thursday nights with his buddies, walks with his children.
And he is hopeful. "We're still fighting to get another product in here," he said. Another product is, of course, another car to build. "We tell everyone to work hard and keep the quality high and show the company what we can do," he said. But the company said its plans haven't changed.
Bob Harlow, one of nine children, grew up in Bartley, W. Va., a coal mining town. "I wanted something more," he said, recalling his restlessness back in 1965, his senior year of high school.
So, over Christmas break, he and his best friend, Harold Dunston, got in Harold's 1964 black Chevy and headed north, up Highway 23. They drove 500 miles in less than nine hours, straight to Detroit, the Motor City. Who needed a high school diploma? This was the industrial promised land, home of the Big Three -- General Motors, Ford and Chrysler.
On Feb. 10, 1965, Mr. Harlow went to work at the huge General Motors Willow Run assembly plant here in Ypsilanti, 30 miles west of Detroit. He installed convertible tops on Chevrolets, lifting each one onto the car with a hoist, jumping into the back seat to bolt it down with an air gun, and then hopping out fast enough to catch the next car. They were rolling at 62 an hour.
"I tell you what, it was so tiring I'd lay on my back on the floor on my break," Mr. Harlow said. "Sometimes I'd take my shirt off and wring it out." But no, he said, he never thought of quitting. The pay was $2.57 an hour, with plenty of overtime.
"We were working 10, 11 1/2 hours a day," he said. "I didn't know there was that much money in the world. I was 18 years old, and I bought my first car -- a '57 Pontiac. I was working for General Motors. You think you're set. You think everything's taken care of. I thought I had the world by the tail."
In 1967, along with scores of other young men from the plant, he went to Vietnam. Two years later, back on the line, as a replacement operator, he met a relief man named Randy Sinks, from Tennessee.
"It seemed like we were a team after that," Mr. Harlow said. "Randy was my best friend."
Mr. Sinks, who was a benefits representative, died suddenly in May of a heart attack. He had been mowing the lawn. He was 49 years old.
"I can't believe the stress over the plant closing didn't have something to do with it," Mr. Harlow said. His eyes filled as he talked about how much he missed his friend.
"I sent Bob to the doctor for a full examination after Randy died," Ms. Kelsay said. "It's really scary when something like that happens to someone you know. Randy was the same kind of person as Bob. Doesn't complain, easygoing -- or appears to be easygoing."
Her husband and Jerry Clifton will be the last ones out the door after the assembly line shuts down. That is how it works in plant closings. With his seniority, Mr. Harlow, who spent 20 years making his way through the union ranks, will get a job -- at another plant, or perhaps at Solidarity House, U.A.W. headquarters in Detroit, though staff is being cut there, too.
"Bob was worried that people would blame him for the plant closing," Ms. Kelsay said. Apparently they didn't. He was re-elected in April by a landslide.
Why run again when the plant is closing? Mr. Harlow's answer: "I wasn't through."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Harlow, right, president of the auto workers' Local 1776 in Ypsilanti, Mich., bowling Monday with fellow auto workers, from left, Don Keebler, John Burnett and Henry Tincher. The closing next year of the General Motors Willow Run plant has left Mr. Harlow listening to the fears of his members. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit); Series

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ARLINGTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WILLOW RUN (MICH) UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ARLINGTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); MAYORS (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); FAMILY (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA; HARLOW, BOB MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



765 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Senate Sweetens Tax Bill With Cut in Health Costs

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Burdened by growing election-year partisanship over taxes, the Senate moved today to make it more difficult for President Bush to kill a $31 billion tax bill by passing an attractive measure cutting health care costs.
April's rioting in Los Angeles gave impetus to the legislation, which would include a series of incentives for businesses to invest in impoverished urban neighborhoods, creating what are known as enterprise zones. But supporters of the measure said its prospects have been damaged since it was last considered on the Senate floor nearly two months ago. President Bush, trying hard to reinvigorate his sagging re-election campaign, has hardened his anti-tax position. 
 In a surprise development, Senators Lloyd Bentsen, Democrat of Texas, and Dave Durenberger, Republican of Minnesota, introduced an amendment today that would increase tax deductibility for health insurance costs for the self-employed from 25 percent to 100 percent. It would limit yearly insurance premium increases for health plans offered by small employers to 5 percent above national health cost trends.
 The amendment, passed by a voice vote, would also prohibit all group health insurance and self-insured employer plans from excluding coverage for pre-existing conditions for more than six months.
The measure dovetails with health proposals by President Bush to tinker with the current medical insurance system rather than moving toward a national health insurance plan extending benefits to more than 30 million people who are not covered.
Senator Jay Rockefeller, Democrat of West Virginia and a leader on health care reform, said: "This is an advance, but I need to say we have an enormous amount left to do. There are now almost half a million pregnant women out there without insurance. I look forward to coming back next year under President Clinton to reach universality of health care and cost containment."
Although they did not voice their concerns publicly, some liberals were unhappy about the limitations of a proposal that will not cover the country's poor. A senior aide to a Senator who prefers a more sweeping approach said, "This is a drop in the bucket."
 
 
Hot Election Issue
 With health insurance costs rising out of the reach of millions, health care is a hot election issue. Health care costs consume 13 percent of the gross national product, a share projected by health care experts to increase to almost 17 percent by the end of the decade.
But even though the amendment passed tonight, it will not insure that the tax bill will be enacted.
Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon, the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee, joined Democrats today in criticizing Mr. Bush for his unwillingness to say which tax provisions in the bill he can support, and which he cannot. Noting that several measures, like one erasing deductibility on country club dues, could be construed as tax increases, Mr. Packwood openly wondered if they were acceptable to the White House, or whether they would be veto bait.
"There is an outside possibility this is a futile exercise," he grumbled, "because at the end, we may have done something the President will not accept."
The White House has said it would like to support the legislation but that it cannot agree to any major tax increases.
 
New I.R.A. Provision
 The bill is a potpourri of measures, including a repeal of luxury taxes on jewelry, furs and yachts, creation of new individual retirement accounts, and a variety of tax benefits for businesses that invest in 125 urban and rural enterprise zones around the country. Taking up amendments one by one in what was expected to be only the first of several days of debate, the lawmakers approved by voice vote a proposal by Senator Bob Dole, Republican of Kansas, and Mr. Rockefeller to extend for eight months a tax credit for the extraction of natural gas from difficult geological formations like tight sands and shale.
The measure, intended to benefit the Appalachian region, Kansas, and the San Juan basin of New Mexico and Colorado, will be paid for by shortening extensions on several other expiring tax credits from 18 months to 15 months, including one for low-income housing. It passed, after a motion to table it was defeated 57 to 41.
Senate leaders want to complete work on the bill before the end of the weekend. But first the Senate must consider an amendment offered by Mr. Dole, the Republican Senate leader, striking provisions that would make permanent two tax increases on the wealthy that were incorporated as temporary measures in the 1990 budget agreement that President Bush is now calling a mistake. The two measures, phasing out personal exemptions and limiting itemized deductions for wealthy citizens, are now set to expire by 1996.
Making the increases permanent is designed to pay for revenue shortfalls created by an expansion of I.R.A. benefits. Mr. Bentsen, chairman of the Finance Committee, would like to establish a new type of I.R.A. in which money that has stayed in accounts for five years could be withdrawn tax-free.
The House has passed a more modest tax bill, which includes fewer enterprise zones and some capital gains tax breaks for business executives investing in disadvantaged areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN SENATE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN SENATE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); TAX DEDUCTIONS HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); SELF INSURANCE (74%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); RIOTS (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); LIBERALISM (69%); CITY LIFE (56%); CITIES (56%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



766 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: PLAINFIELD JOURNAL;
Sousa's Band Is 100. So Is the Plan of Celebration.

BYLINE: By CHARLES STRUM

DATELINE: PLAINFIELD, N.J.

 BODY:
THE Stillman Music Hall, built in 1884, is long gone, extracted like a decayed tooth from the 200 block of West Front Street almost 40 years ago to make room for the city's first municipal parking lot.
What was once its narrow facade is now a grassy gap between Albert's Record Shop and the abandoned Nelson's Active Wear Center, a reminder of the popular but clumsy urban renewal policies of a generation or more ago that failed to rejuvenate the business district. 
 But there is history on this spot, served up in one of those delicious little accidents of fate that create momentary excitement and sometimes lasting, if increasingly distant, notoriety for a city or town: a fierce battle (Antietam), a terrible flood (Johnstown), or, in the case at hand, the debut of Sousa's Band (Plainfield).
On Sept. 26, 1892, John Philip Sousa arrived here by rail, having resigned as director of the Marine Band and taken up the baton in front of the 60-member concert band bearing his name. It was the start of what would be more than a million miles of touring until the band dissolved at his death in 1932.
But why Plainfield?
"This was the city of 100 millionaires," said Barbara Fuller, president of the Plainfield Historical Society, who, with another trustee, Nancy Piwowar, helped prepare for a Sousa centennial gala this Saturday that has grown to include 15 bands, Sousa's biographer, Sousa interpreters, Sousa's family and Sousa groupies. "The railroad came out here and opened everything up. It was a big deal social town. But no. Nobody really knows why Plainfield."
And why the excitement?
"It's the inauguration of the most famous concert band in all of history," said Keith Brion, a former director of bands at Yale University who since 1980 has researched and recorded Sousa's music and portrayed him on the podium.
"It marks almost the beginning of bands in America," he said. "It influenced all the school bands and all the college bands. Sousa's Band carried forward the legacy of the Civil War bands and municipal bands. And out of Sousa came the growth of Arthur Fiedler and the Boston Pops."
There are no photographs or programs of the debut, which began an 80-city tour from Michigan to Maine that lasted until Dec. 11, 1892, when the band played in New York. But newspaper accounts suggest it was fairly typical early Sousa, starting with Rossini's overture from "Semiramide," ending with "The Star-Spangled Banner" and piling Wagner, Schubert, Donizetti and Sousa in between.
"In his time, the concert band was the vehicle for exposing people to music both good and bad," said Sousa's biographer, Paul Bierley. "How many symphony orchestras were there? Maybe six or seven. How many concerts did they play? One or two a week, all in the same city.
"Sousa played two a day, in different cities, all over the United States. He exposed people to really good music: Wagner, Tchaikovsky, Beethoven."
Though a violinist by training, with a vast knowledge of the classics, Sousa was never shy about his role as March King. Well aware of what his audience wanted, he alternated Wagner's "Tannhauser" overture, for example, with Sousa's "High School Cadets," "The Washington Post" or any other of the 136 marches he wrote.
Frederick Fennell, who conducted and recorded dozens of Sousa marches with the Eastman Wind Ensemble, said Sousa and his managers were shrewd promoters, but there was more. "I can't think of anybody in history who was more in the right place at the right time than Sousa," Mr. Fennell said.
"It was the right time, the time of the amusement park, and the train that took you to that park, and Sousa was part of that thing that you'd go to hear."
Mr. Fennell, who plans to attend the daylong Sousa concert at Green Brook Park on Saturday, is scheduled to conduct one of Sousa's most famous marches, "Semper Fidelis."
"I've been planning for four years to show up, even if they didn't have anything," said Mr. Fennell, who played percussion under Sousa at the National High School Orchestra and Band Camp in Interlochen, Mich., in 1931.
Sousa's success, Mr. Brion said, spawned many imitators, some of whom knew so little about Sousa or conducting that they foolishly tried to imitate his style after 1920, when he was thrown by a horse and lost full use of his left arm.
"It caused him to flop his arm at his side," Mr. Brion said. "Others picked it up, thinking it was the way to conduct a band like Sousa's."
At the Drake House Museum, an 18th-century house here that served as George Washington's headquarters in 1777, the historical society has mounted an exhibition of Sousa memorabilia, including a pair of the white kid gloves he conducted with and a saxophone used by one of his band members. Captured stiffly by the camera, the young Sousa and the old Sousa seem unhappily and thoroughly muted by everything from radio to MTV that pushed popular entertainment away from the concert band.
His operettas, love songs and other pieces of program music are nearly all forgotten, and marches are not always in fashion. But Sousa marches, his admirers say, maintain their hold on the band world and the public.
"Sousa always said his music came from a higher power," Mr. Bierley said. "But inspired simplicity is why they were more successful than others. Not cluttered like the German marches, not stuffy like the English, not full of bugles like the French marches. And when they got to the end, they said, 'By God, this is the end.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Drake House in Plainfield, N.J., the historical society is exhibiting memorabilia from the 60-piece-band man, John Philip Sousa. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey showing location of Plainfield.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); PLAINFIELD HISTORICAL SOCIETY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLAINFIELD HISTORICAL SOCIETY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PLAINFIELD (NJ) UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); HISTORY (78%); CIVIL WAR (75%); TOOTH DISORDERS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); MUSIC STORES (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); WRITERS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); RESIGNATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: STRUM, CHARLES; SOUSA, JOHN PHILIP JOHN PHILIP SOUSA (99%); FREDERICK FENNELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



767 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Gas-Price Rally Continues To End of October Contract

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES

 BODY:
Natural gas prices extended their remarkable post-hurricane ascent yesterday, with the contract for October delivery rising 9.7 cents, to $2.743 per 1,000 cubic feet, in the contract's final day of trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Traders said the buying strength that developed after Hurricane Andrew temporarily disrupted 5 percent of the nation's gas output in late August had evolved beyond bullish sentiment this week, possibly setting the stage for a sharp retreat. 
 "The move has been somewhat speculative and exaggerated, but it is still in a state where no one is willing to sell," said Thomas Blakeslee, a trader at the Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J.
 The price of the October contract increased 51.2 cents in the last four trading days, a gain of 22.9 percent. The price for the spot-month contract has soared 48 percent since Aug. 21, the Friday before Hurricane Andrew ripped through a prime gas-production region south of Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico,
"It is likely that a good deal of profit taking will begin" soon in the new November contract, Mr. Blakeslee said.
Price increases in the November contract have lagged behind those in the October contract for several days, a pattern that continued yesterday. The November contract rose by 5.7 cents to settle at $2.593. The price of the December and January contracts fell slightly.
Traders said they were unaware of any news affecting gas demand or supplies that could have stimulated buying. The American Gas Association, a trade group representing pipelines and natural gas utilities, said Tuesday that winter gas supplies appeared plentiful.
Gas producers said they have been making sales in the last month at prices that have soared in tandem with gains in the futures market.
Michael L. Mayer, a securities analyst at Wertheim Schroder & Company, said average gas prices registered in the third quarter by the largest natural gas producers in North America would be about $1.75 per 1,000 cubic feet, compared with $1.40 in the quarter a year earlier.
 Yet profits of big international companies that are also major domestic producers, such as the Chevron Corporation or Texaco Inc., would show only slight gains from rising gas prices because gas production is a small part of their total operations, he said. But smaller companies that focus mainly on domestic gas output, including the Anadarko Petroleum Corporation; Meridian Oil Inc., a unit of Burlington Resources Inc., and the Enron Oil and Gas Company, should post big profit gains.
Trading volume in natural gas contracts set a one-day record estimated at 32,718 contracts, surpassing 28,350 contracts traded on Aug. 28.
The market in natural gas futures contracts has expanded more rapidly than any commodity contract since futures in domestic light crude oil were introduced by the New York Mercantile Exchange in 1982. Natural gas contracts began trading in April 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APC (NYSE) (85%); COP (NYSE) (84%); CVX (NYSE) (82%); EOG (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (85%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (85%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (85%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); CHEVRON CORP (82%); SCHRODER & CO INC (64%); MERIDIAN OIL INC (62%); EOG RESOURCES INC (61%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); PRICES; FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); HURRICANES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); FUTURES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (79%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C THOMAS BLAKESLEE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



768 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar at a Low Against Yen; Gold Prices Fall Slightly

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar plunged to a new low against the Japanese yen yesterday as investors sought a haven from the turmoil that has plagued the European currencies.
Gold prices were marginally lower. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $348.60 a troy ounce, down 20 cents from Tuesday. The Republic National Bank said gold was unchanged at a late bid price of $348.60 an ounce. 
 The dollar opened higher in moderate trading. But the currency's upward move came to an abrupt halt following comments by a senior Government official who said the dollar's value against the yen was not a problem.
The United States Treasury Under Secretary for International Affairs, David Mulford, told reporters he was "not that very concerned" about the dollar's decline against the yen.
"That comment opened the door" for dollar-selling, said Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at Mitsubishi Bank Ltd.
In New York the dollar dipped as low as 119.55 yen before settling at 120.15 yen, down from 121.02 yen on Tuesday.
In London, the dollar was quoted at 120.25 yen late in the day, matching its record low set Jan. 4, 1988. It finished at 122.67 yen Tuesday in Tokyo. Japanese markets were closed for a national holiday.
"The yen is attracting lots of buying interest because of the ongoing crisis in Europe, the upcoming U.S. Presidential election and the recent weak U.S. economic statistics," Mr. Flanagan said. "That leaves the yen as the safe-haven currency for the moment."
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Tuesday's late rates, included: 1.5005 German marks, up from 1.4935.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (69%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (58%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GERMAN MARK (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); STATISTICS (64%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN FLANAGAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



769 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Long Creek, Short Paddle

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
"U.S. interest rates are too low," Carlos Solchaga told the multitudes assembled in Washington to watch unnerved government bankers play Point the Finger. What Spain's minister of finance meant was that American interest rates are too low to suit Europeans, whose internal system of fixed exchange rates deconstructed last week under the strain of trans-Atlantic warfare over monetary policy.
With the White House begging for still lower rates, the Federal Reserve is not about to take Mr. Solchaga's hint. But by most accounts, fears of stirring the currency pot have dampened the Fed's enthusiasm for a further easing of monetary policy. And with the Federal deficit pushing $400 billion, Washington also has deep misgivings about stimulating the economy with budget-busting tax cuts or increased spending. 
 Is the once-unthinkable now inevitable? Is the American economy up a recessionary creek with neither a fiscal nor monetary paddle to pull it back? Some economists, though by no means all, still believe expansionary policy is worth a try. But even the optimists wonder whether the old weapons can be used with sufficient finesse to do more good than harm.
Textbooks -- at least the ones written before Ronald Reagan discovered voodoo economics and little old ladies from Dubuque learned about currency futures -- said recessions could be fought in three ways: expanding the money supply, increasing government spending, or cutting taxes. Any combination would do the trick. The policy mix merely determined how the extra output would be divided between investment and consumption.
But the 1990's have become a twilight zone for Washington's economic policy makers in which nothing quite works the way it used to. For one thing, the economy is far more open than it was even a decade ago. And the impact of fiscal and monetary policy can be offset -- or magnified -- by foreigners' response. Take the widely predicted credit crunch of the 1980's: it never materialized because the world proved more than willing to finance America's ballooning budget deficit.
Robert Reischauer, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, adds more ingredients to this witches' brew. He argues that structural imbalances in the American economy -- everything from the humongous debt burden on business to overbuilding in real estate to the squeeze on state budgets -- have made it far harder to predict how businesses or consumers will respond to policy changes. "The consensus forecasts," he ruefully notes, "have been wrong for a year and a half."
That said, is there any alternative to waiting for hard times to melt away on their own? Ed Yardeni, chief economist for C. J. Lawrence, thinks the halving of interest rates since 1990 spared us a much deeper downturn. And despite worry about the stability of currency exchange rates, he argues there is room -- and reason -- for deeper cuts.
But Robert J. Gordon, an economist at Northwestern University, is not so sure. Monetary stimulus now largely works through exports, he notes: lower American interest rates lead to an outflow of capital, which leads to a depreciation of the dollar, which makes foreign goods less competitive here and American goods more competitive abroad. And the lags in translating lower interest rates in New York to, say, sales of more Caterpillar bulldozers in Thailand are very long.
In fact, Mr. Gordon argues that the initial impact may even be contractionary. Households earn more interest than they pay. Thus a cut in rates reduces household income and dampens spending -- just ask retirees in Miami or Phoenix, who used to dine out on the earnings from their money market funds.
That is why Mr. Gordon -- and, more important, many of the economists advising Bill Clinton -- is eager to try the fiscal alternative. If the economy is not well on its way to recovery by January, a Clinton victory would almost certainly lead to a White House proposal for some combination of temporary tax cuts and spending increases.
Everyone agrees that this fiscal route runs through uncharted territory. If the tax cuts or higher Government outlays were not rescinded after the recession, the budget deficit would become an even bigger drag on America's long-term prospects for growth. Indeed, Mr. Yardeni thinks fiscal policy is simply an exercise in futility because long-term interest rates would rise in response, offsetting the stimulus.
But the fiscal optimists believe the bond market could be won over with a credible plan for phasing out the stimulus later on. Mr. Gordon would tie an increase in aid to the states or a tax credit for new investment to the unemployment rate. Others would lock temporary stimulus to an explicit plan for balancing the budget later in the decade.
Pie in the sky? Perhaps. But, then, the brave new world of post-1980's economics is full of surprises -- maybe even good ones.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPE (92%); 

COMPANY: C J LAWRENCE MORGAN GRENFELL INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPE (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FUTURES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); CONSUMPTION (74%); TAX LAW (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER RONALD REAGAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



770 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Yields of Money Funds Are Mixed in Week

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields offered by money market funds were mixed in the latest reporting week as tax-exempt funds took a sharp upturn and taxable funds slipped a few notches.
According to IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report, the supply of new short-term tax-exempt debt from municipalities and states with budget problems and in need of cash continues to flood the market. The result is that yields are pushed up as prices are forced down by the big supply of debt. 
 Another factor behind the supply glut was a ruling by the Securities and Exchange Commission last year that required money market funds, the biggest buyers of short-term securities, to maintain average weighted maturities of no longer than 90 days.
 
Contrary Trend
 The ruling prompted funds to reduced the amount of six-month and nine-month notes they buy to keep their maturities shorter. This, however, has gone contrary to the needs of borrowers, who tend to borrow in those maturities through the issuance of tax-anticipation notes.
Assets of tax-exempt money funds were down by $951 million for the week, to $94.1 billion, with the average number of days to maturity of securities held in funds unchanged, at 65.
The seven-day average compounded tax-exempt yield rose 11 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 2.55 percent, while the simple yield rose 10 basis points, to 2.51 percent. Over a 30-day period, the average compounded and simple tax-exempt yields were both up 8 basis points, to 2.42 percent and 2.39 percent, respectively.
Not assuming state taxes, the taxable equivalent of the seven-day compounded yield was 3.54 percent for investors in the 28 percent tax bracket, while the equivalent for investors in the 31 percent tax bracket was 3.69 percent.
 
Best Performer
 In its weekly survey of tax-exempt funds with assets greater than $100 million, IBC/Donoghue's said the Dreyfus Basic Municipal fund was the best-performing fund, with a return of 3.40 percent.
Yields in taxable money market funds were off slightly in the week, and total assets fell by $2.4 billion, to $497 billion.
As in the previous weeks, most of the activity in taxable funds has come from institutional funds, where assets fell $2.3 billion in the week, to $180.5 billion. Now that money fund yields are near that of Treasury securities and commercial paper, institutional investors are moving out money market funds to secure better yields in the open market.
The average seven-day compounded yield for taxable money market funds was off 2 basis points, to 2.92 percent in the week, and the simple yield dipped a similar amount, to 2.88 percent. For a 30-day average, the compound and simple yields were both down 3 basis points, to 2.99 percent and 2.95 percent, respectively.
 
Shorter Maturities
 Analysts said the average days left to maturity of securities in taxable portfolios fell by one, to 63.
"The decline is not significant, since they are so far out already," said Walter S. Frank, IBC/Donoghue's chief economist.
The Standby Reserve Fund, distributed by Cowen & Company in New York, continued as the top performer among general-purpose funds, with a yield of 3.76 percent. If government-only funds with assets under $100 million were included, the United Services Government Securities Savings fund, distributed by United Services in San Antonio, was the best performer, with a yield of 4.08 percent.
"You have to look real hard to find many money market funds offering yields over 4 percent," Mr. Frank said.
By comparison, the average bank money market account this week was at 2.90 percent, according to The Bank Rate Monitor.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Regional Bank Rates"
 
Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on Sept. 23, 1992 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

	Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	New York	2.84	2.96		 	 	Los Angeles	2.99	3.16		 	 	Chicago	2.91	3.10		 	 	San Francisco	2.88	3.06		 	 	Philadelphia	3.04	3.06		 	 	Detroit	3.07	3.19		 	 	Boston	2.84	3.10		 	 	Houston	2.74	3.03		 	 	Dallas	2.71	3.03		 	 	Washington	2.96	3.27		 	 	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	2.90	3.10	
 
*Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408
 
Graphs: "Maturities" shows the average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios from Oct. 1991-Sept. 1992. (Source: IBC/Donoghue's); "Consumer Money Rates" shows Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average taxable yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts from June-Sept. 1992. (Source: Bank Rate Monitor; IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: UNITED SERVICES GOVERNMENT SECURITIES SAVINGS (61%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET FUNDS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (79%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT CLARE SHORT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



771 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Met Museum Reports on Spending

 BODY:
A new survey indicates that two-thirds of the 642,000 people who visited the four-month-long Seurat show at the Metropolitan Museum of Art last year came from outside New York City and spent about $313 million on travel, hotels, restaurants and shopping while visiting, said Philippe de Montebello, director of the museum.
Of those out-of-town visitors, nearly 40 percent said the Seurat show was a major reason for their coming to New York, the survey showed. 
 Mr. de Montebello announced the finding yesterday at a news conference at the Museum of Modern Art, just downstairs from the city's current mega-exhibition, "Henri Matisse: A Retrospective." The conference was attended by about 40 arts administrators and public officials to call attention to the start of National Arts Week.
Mr. de Montebello also said that two other major museums in the city -- the Modern and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum -- would be cooperating with the Metropolitan's office of research and evaluation in a survey of the economic impact of the exhibitions by all three museums this fall and winter, to be released in February.
In addition to Mr. de Montebello, speakers at the news conference included Agnes Gund, president of the Modern Museum board; Richard E. Oldenburg, director of the Modern, and three New York City officials: Barbara S. Fife, Deputy Mayor for Planning and Development; Barry F. Sullivan, Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, and Luis R. Cancel, Commissioner of the Department of Cultural Affairs.
Following the news conference, Ms. Fife said Mayor David N. Dinkins remained committed to making no further reduction in the city's $171.8 million contribution to the Department of Cultural Affairs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ART; ART SHOWS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FINANCES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); 

PERSON: SEURAT, GEORGES (1859-91) AGNES GUND (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



772 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 4; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Review/Television;
The Misadventures of the Simpsons

BYLINE: By JOHN J. O'CONNOR

 BODY:
Some politicians might take exception to CBS's "Murphy Brown." A few might even dare to tackle ABC's "Roseanne," which has been mounting a persuasive challenge to the White House stand that the recession is not as bad as the press might have you believe. But only the foolhardy would go up against "The Simpsons," returning at 8 tonight on Fox for a fourth season and still the most radical show on prime time.
With its breezily dysfunctional family, "The Simpsons" can deftly skewer everything from nuclear energy and modern education to corporate greed and baseball nostalgia. Matt Groening, the show's creator, is a cartoonist with a pen dipped in seemingly fey, truly diabolical whimsy. Further proof is available in "Life in Hell," his syndicated newspaper comic strip starring Ali and Akbar, America's most endearingly odd couple. 
 Developed by James L. Brooks, Sam Simon and Mr. Groening from cartoon segments made for "The Tracey Ullman Show," "The Simpsons" first appeared to be only an animated show about a boy named Bart, the kind of irresistible brat whose nonconforming roots go back to Peck's Bad Boy and the Dead End Kids. Gradually, though, it became apparent that this wasn't just another children's show.
The animation is ingenious, filling the screen with far more detail than can be grasped in a single viewing. The scripts are consistently inventive, brimming with pop-culture allusions, satires and parodies. And the characters have been given perfectly on-target voices courtesy of Dan Castellaneta (Homer and Krusty the Clown), Julie Kavner (Marge), Nancy Cartwright (Bart) and Yeardley Smith (Lisa). Little Maggie has yet to utter her first word, but she does sigh impatiently in a new episode.
Tonight, the rituals of summer camp for youngsters, always good for an easy dose of sentimentality, are the stuff of a typical Simpsonian nightmare. It's the last day of school. Lisa, objecting to a B plus on her otherwise perfect report card, is told by a teacher that "everyone needs a blot on their permanent record."
After filling a blackboard with the observation that "this punishment is not boring and pointless," Bart sets about changing all the D's to A's on his report card, hoping that Homer will let him go with Lisa to Kamp Krusty. He refuses to pack a bathing suit, insisting that "the human body is a thing of beauty," but reconsiders when he spots hair on the back of pot-bellied Homer.
The bus departs, the children cheer and the parents break out the Champagne. The camp, of course, turns out to be a rip-off. Krusty, attending the tennis matches at Wimbledon, is seen only via videotape. His thuggish deputy was, Bart insists, throwing in a zinger for the Disney people, "in charge of Euro Krusty until it blew up." The children confront dirt floors, snakes and meals of gruel, assured that "9 out of 10 orphans can't tell the difference." Lisa writes her parents: "I no longer fear hell." Krusty eventually repents. ("They drove a truckload full of money up to my house," he says. "I'm not made of stone.") And there is a happy ending, in Tijuana, Mexico, of all places.
Next week, Marge, ignored by her family as they sit glued to the "Miss America Pageant," auditions for a local musical version of "A Streetcar Named Desire" and gets the lead role of Blanche DuBois. This show, "Oh! Streetcar," features lyrics along the lines of "Stella! You put me through hell-a!" Lisa is thrilled: "Wow! My mother, the actress. I feel like Lucie Arnaz Luckinbill." But Homer has misgivings, especially when Marge, now practicing her Southern drawl, seems to be paying less than full attention to family dinner. "For God's sake," she tells him, "you can pull the lid off your own can of pudding."
Meanwhile, Maggie is placed in the Ayn Rand School for Tots, described by the unctuous director as "the only day-care center in town that's not currently under investigation by the state." A Simpson to the bone, Maggie is soon leading a nap-time insurrection that unearths a book called "The Fountainhead Diet." Homer, still sulking about Marge, does feel bad about Blanche being "hauled to a nut house when all she needed was that big slob to show her some respect." Well, at least Homer is a lovable slob.
Name your problem. "The Simpsons" is bound to take it for a shrewdly whacky spin. Mr. Groening and company continue to be delightfully original and almost subversively provocative. Now, in television, that's uncommon enough to be startling.
 
The Simpsons
Fox, tonight at 8
(Channel 5 in New York)
Created by Matt Groening for Gracie Films in association with 20th Television; Bill Oakley and Josh Weinstein, executive story editors; John Swartzwelder, Jon Vitti, Jeff Martin, Frank Mula, Richard Sakai, Richard Raynis, Conan O'Brien and David Silverman, producers; George Meyer, Jay Kogen and Wallace Wolodarsky, supervising producers; Phil Roman, animation executive producer; James L. Brooks, Matt Groening, Sam Simon, Al Jean and Mike Reiss, executive producers.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SIMPSONS, THE (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (91%); CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FOX TELEVISION FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); CBS CORP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOX TELEVISION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (76%); BASEBALL (76%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (75%); ANIMATION (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); TENNIS (60%); SPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: O'CONNOR, JOHN J MATT GROENING (70%); TRACEY ULLMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



773 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN;
The Ad Campaign

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

 BODY:
 TELEVISION SCRIPT -- Announcer: "To pay for his increased spending in Arkansas, Bill Clinton raised state taxes. And not just on the rich. He increased the sales tax by 33 percent. Imposed a mobile home tax. Increased the beer tax. He assessed a tourism tax. Created a cable TV tax. Supported a tax on groceries.
"And now, if elected President, Bill Clinton has promised to increase Government spending -- $220 billion.
"Guess where he'll get the money?"
Bluegrass music plays in the background.
ACCURACY -- The figures cited are accurate but not necessarily in context. Mr. Clinton has proposed spending $220 billion. But the ad fails to mention that the Governor has also proposed spending cuts that would at least partly offset those increases. It is also true that Mr. Clinton has increased the sales tax by 33 percent, to 4 1/2 cents from 3 cents over his tenure as Governor. But the Clinton campaign contends that the state and local tax burden in Arkansas as a percentage of personal income has declined under Mr. Clinton.
SCORECARD -- Facing a gap in the polls, dwindling weeks before Election Day and an attack ad earlier this week from Mr. Clinton, the Bush campaign saw little choice but to go on the offensive. The ad clearly seeks to portray Mr. Clinton as another tax-and-spend liberal from a tax-and-spend state.
The humor softens the tone of a tough, hard-hitting ad and protects Mr. Bush from looking as if he jumped right in the gutter. Attacked relentlessly by the Democrats on the economy, the Bush campaign is trying to turn this critical issue on Mr. Clinton.
 
Clinton: For Texans Only
The Clinton campaign yesterday began broadcasting a 30-second commercial in Texas that blames President Bush for lost jobs in the energy industry. The campaign would not divulge the locations or frequency of the broadcasts.
ON THE SCREEN -- As a tick-tock sound is heard in the background, the word "alert" in red type flashes on the screen. The camera zooms in on a blurry black-and-white photograph of Mr. Bush's lips. Words matching the announcer's script appear typed on screen over the President's face.
TELEVISION SCRIPT -- Mr. Bush speaking: "Read my lips."
Announcer: "Another broken promise from George Bush. Bush promised 30 million jobs in eight years. He's 29 million short. In Texas, we've lost over 160,000 jobs in the energy industry alone. Mr. Bush, you said you'd do anything to save your own job. But you've done nothing to save ours.
"Can Texans really afford four more years of this?"
ACCURACY -- The figures themselves are accurate. But the loss of oil industry-related jobs is generally considered less the fault of the Reagan and Bush Administrations than of the decline in world oil prices over the past decade.
SCORECARD -- The ad seeks to tweak Mr. Bush in his adopted home state on what has become an overriding issue in the race. Mr. Clinton seeks to protect himself from being perceived as waging too harsh an attack because the commercial uses the President himself making the infamous pledge.

GRAPHIC: Chart:
Bush: Getting Tough With a Touch of Humor
The Bush campaign yesterday began broadcasting its first attack commercial of the general election campaign. It is also the first advertisement of the season that uses humor to press its point. Bush aides would not say how often the 30-second ad would be shown but said it was the first that would be seen only in local markets and not on the national networks.
ON THE SCREEN -- Opens like a travelogue, with a "Welcome to Arkansas" road sign filmed from a moving car. In fast forward, the camera intersperses shots of the Arkansas Governor signing bills that raised taxes and footage illustrating the tax increase: a cash register for a sales tax, a beer being poured for a beer tax, Mr. Clinton playing the saxophone on television for a cable television tax. The commercial ends with another fast-motion signing ceremony and the words "Guess where he'll get the money?" in white on a black background.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ADVERTISING; TELEVISION MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (79%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); SHOCK ADVERTISING (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); MOBILE HOMES (57%); COUNTRY MUSIC (55%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



774 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Budgetary Roller Coaster Hurts U.S. Science

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In February President Bush proposed significant increases for scientific research. By mid-summer these had been slashed by House subcommittees to the point that the research budget of the National Science Foundation will remain flat in nominal terms and the National Institutes of Health budgets will increase by at most 4 percent, a full percentage point lower than the increase in the price index of biomedical research.
Not only astronomy is plagued with financing problems ("Astronomy's New Era of Discovery Is Being Born in Poverty," Science Times, Aug. 18), but the rest of science as well. 
 Given the budget deficit, such financing cuts are understandable. But the United States has a history of erratic financing for scientific research: big increases in certain years (as high as 20 percent) followed by real cuts or modest increases. Scientific enterprise in the U.S. is on a budgetary roller coaster.
Uncertainty makes a roller-coaster ride at an amusement park exciting. But uncertainty in financing weakens the American scientific enterprise by encouraging scientists to pursue safe projects and to ignore risky ones with potentially higher payoffs.
The absence of long-term guarantees also makes scientists less likely to undertake projects with distant payoffs, and encourages established scientists to seek research opportunities outside the U.S., where longer commitments are standard. Furthermore, future achievers are discouraged from entering science, since more secure (and often more intellectually and financially rewarding) occupations exist elsewhere.
Scientific research affects our standard of living and our competitive position in the world. Moreover, because the lag between basic research and economic impact is long -- from 10 to 30 years -- the effects of erratic financing continue to be felt for years. Research suggests that our present economic doldrums are directly related to the lack of a strong science policy in the past.
Our economic future depends on the recognition that we as a country must take the long view. In science this means a long-term sustained real growth in Federal financing of 4 to 5 percent.
 
PAULA E. STEPHAN
Atlanta, Sept. 15, 1992
 
The writer is a professor of economics and senior associate of the Policy Research Center, Georgia State U.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH CENTER INC (66%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (58%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (58%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); WRITERS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



775 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Budgetary Roller Coaster Hurts U.S. Science;
An Unhealthy Mix

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was saddened to hear that the United States' research agenda at the National Institutes of Health will in the future be more affected by the country's business agenda, and that Dr. Bernadine P. Healy, the agency's director, is supportive of this mixing of mission ("U.S. Will Tighten Health-Lab Goals," front page, Aug. 24).
Having sat on an internal review committee at the National Institute of Drug Abuse, I learned firsthand the importance of grant proposals being considered solely on their scientific merit and feasibility with as little influence as possible from political or other considerations. 
 Frequently, studies that may seem like pure basic research or that may just add to knowledge of alcohol or drug effects may turn out to have larger usefulness and clinical implications when more is known. The more often projects are earmarked because of political or financial considerations, the more likely an important hypothesis or innovative idea may not be financed, especially in times of shortage when only a small percentage of approved projects receive financing.
In the alcohol and drug abuse fields, those studies with most merit may run counter to business interests, especially those of the tobacco and alcohol lobbies, which are well financed and have enormous resources to advance business interests. President Bush's son-in-law is a lobbyist for the beverage industry. If the National Institute on Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse and the National Institute on Drug Abuse newly residing at the National Institutes of Health were unduly influenced by these lobbyists, or even by the insurance lobbies, large care providers or medical associations, this could distort the mission of the research enterprise.
Putting higher priority on areas for financial gain like development of new drugs, laboratory tests or treatment procedures sounds very promising. However, when research budgets are limited, it is better to choose on the basis of quality and not to place too many political and economic restraints on grant reviewers' judgment.
 
RICHARD J. FRANCES, M.D.
Professor of Clinical Psychiatry
U. of Medicine & Dentistry of New Jersey-N.J. Medical School
Newark, Sept. 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT INC (92%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (85%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (54%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (54%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; RESEARCH; FEDERAL AID (US) SUBSTANCE ABUSE (92%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PSYCHIATRY (72%); INSURANCE (72%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (70%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (69%); DENTISTRY (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



776 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Mujahedeen Strive for Democracy in Iran

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The People's Mujahedeen Organization of Iran, the principal opposition to the mullahs' theocratic rule, is an Islamic, patriotic and profoundly democratic movement that has striven for 27 years against two dictatorial regimes to establish democracy and human rights.
A group calling itself the Forum on American-Iranian Relations, in the interests of the Khomeini regime, ran an advertisement in The Times on Aug. 28 that was a blatant bid to undercut 219 members of the United States House of Representatives who had condemned the rights abuses and terrorism of the mullahs and supported the Iranian people's struggle for democracy. 
 The group's accusations against the People's Mujahedeen are identical to those fabricated by the regime responsible for the execution of more than 100,000 Iranians for political reasons -- to say nothing of the imprisonment of American and European hostages or the bombing of the marine barracks in Lebanon.
In January the United Nations special representative on Iran reported that "the number of executions has increased week by week, with no sign of any reduction." These and other crimes have prompted condemnations, including that of the U.N. Human Rights Commission in February and subcommission in August.
In 1989 and 1990 the European Parliament and Council of Europe issued statements calling for efforts "to expel this medieval regime from the United Nations, and to ensure that the Iranian people are represented by the Iranian National Council of Resistance." More than 600 antigovernment demonstrations throughout Iran in support of the Mujahedeen since last year have shaken the Rafsanjani regime.
In any case, the Iranian National Council of Resistance coalition, while again condemning terrorism in any form, denies the accusations published by the Khomeini regime's agents. The council's program envisions a provisional government for six months after the overthrow of the regime, during which free elections will be held.
The national council's program also urges respect for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; a free market economy; regional stability; autonomy for Iranian Kurds, and the abolition of discrimination against women and ethnic and religious minorities.
 
ALIREZA JAFARZADEH
Washington, Sept. 9, 1992
 
The writer is U.S. spokesman for the People's Mujahedeen of Iran.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); LEBANON (78%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (57%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (57%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%); COUNCIL OF EUROPE (55%); COUNCIL OF EUROPE (55%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (57%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (57%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%); COUNCIL OF EUROPE (55%); COUNCIL OF EUROPE (55%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); LEBANON (78%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ISLAM RELIGION (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (73%); GENDER EQUALITY (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (68%); ETHNIC GROUPS (66%); 

PERSON: HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



777 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Big Chain to Reopen 6 Department Stores Shut by Alexander's

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
Bradlees Inc., a large discount department store based in Massachusetts, said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire and reopen six of the 11 Alexander's Department Stores closed in bankruptcy this year in the New York region. The new stores, in the Bronx, Queens, Yonkers and Long Island, could give a boost to the area's devastated retail industry.
New York City has agreed to give Bradlees tax incentives as part of the deal, but the details are not settled. 
 Bradlees, with 127 stores in the Northeast but none in New York City, said it would spend $82 million to buy or take over the leases of two Alexander's in the Bronx, two in Queens, one in Yonkers and one in Valley Stream, L.I. The stores closed in May. Bradlees said it planned to reopen four of them in 1993 and two in 1994.
The news brought relief to the Bronx and Queens, where the fallout of New York City's long and largely futile effort to retain large department stores has been the most painful.
Across the city, more than a dozen department stores have closed over the last decade amid intense competition from expanding suburban malls and a recession that undermined the finances of shoppers and merchants alike. Alexander's' bankruptcy followed those of Gimbels, B. Altman, May's, Ohrbach's, E. J. Korvette and others, leaving vacant shells where department stores once stood on even the busiest shopping districts of Manhattan, and the other boroughs grappling with the threat that their shopping districts might resemble urban ghost towns.
Perhaps the most important piece of Bradlees' decision for New York City is the plan to acquire the Alexander's store at Fordham Road and the Grand Concourse in the Bronx. For 50 years, that store had been the retail anchor for a vibrant shopping district in the central Bronx, providing one of the borough's last bastions of diverse retail trade.
"This reflects a hard-headed business decision that the inner city should not be written off, and that maybe department stores are not obsolete," said Samuel L. Ehrenhalt, the New York Regional Commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. It has reported a loss of 171,000 jobs in in wholesale and retail trade in New York City, Westchester and Long Island since 1988.
 
Crucial to Neighborhoods
 Retail industry analysts and urban planners say that the importance of department stores like Alexander's is immense for declining neighborhoods, because the stores tend to support smaller nearby merchants.
"There are no two ways about it," said Donald Trischetta, owner of Cohen's Optical, a store across Fordham Road from the vacant Alexander's in the Bronx, after hearing of the Bradlees plan to reopen the store.
"Any kind of anchor store over here is going to be good."
Although opening new department stores in New York City would hold great risk even without a deep recession, Bradlees said its strategy was to build retail markets in the heavily populated areas of the Northeast. For years it has run department stores in poor and mixed-income neighborhoods of Boston, including the Dorchester and Fields Corner areas.
The company completed an initial public stock offering in May. It said then that it planned to acquire at least four department stores a year.
Most discount department stores carry a wide variety of merchandise but tend to fill most of their shelves with hardware, sporting goods and packaged goods. Bradlees, itself a discounter, specializes in clothing, bedding and other household goods.
The company, which is based in Braintree, Mass., said it had considered and rejected the idea of acquiring Alexander's two vacant stores in the most affluent sections of Manhattan: the bankrupt retailer's flagship store on 58th Street across from Bloomingdales and a large outlet in the World Trade Center.
Robin Farkas, the chairman of Alexander's, said yesterday that his company was negotiating with other retailers and hoped to sell its five other New York area stores within the next year.
But Barry A. Berman, the chairman of Bradlees, said it had no interest in the other stores and would instead concentrate on renovating older stores in the Bronx and Queens. By doing that, Bradlees hopes to add to the traditional market it now serves in urban areas, including some low- and middle-income shoppers in Boston and New Haven.
In an unusual arrangement, city officials said the company had already signed leases and agreed to reopen the stores on a good-faith pledge that it would receive some form of real-estate tax reduction. Mayor Dinkins said the pledge was "to provide certainty and stability to their operating costs in the Bronx locations."
When asked about the arangement yesterday, Carl Weisbrod, a senior economic aide to the Mayor and president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, declined to provide details on what tax incentives the city would be providing, saying they were under negotiation.
He said that the approach, while unusual, was not singular. A component of the package that kept Prudential Insurance Company of America in the city recently was a pledge that taxes would not rise by more than a fixed percent a year, he said, and tax incentives also figured in the deal that kept the headquarters of NBC in the city several years ago.
Mr. Berman said his company had signed leases at the two sites in Queens, as well as those in Yonkers and Valley Stream, without government assistance. He added that the decision to reopen the two Bronx stores "was not premised on" government assistance.
Before Bradlees can take over the six Alexander's locations, the terms of its acquisition must be approved by the Federal Bankruptcy Court supervising Alexander's affairs. Alexander's said yesterday that if a better offer than the one from Bradless were submitted, it would be considered.
But Mr. Farkas, Alexander's chairman, said yesterday that his company was not now negotiating with any other potential buyers for the six New York area stores. He added that he did expect objections from the bankruptcy court.
When it closed its 11 New York area department stores in May, Alexander's said it was eliminating 5,200 jobs. Bradlees executives said yesterday that they planned to hire at least 200 workers at each of the six stores it acquires, or a total of 1,200, and would seek the best qualified candidates without giving preference to those who had been cut by Alexander's.
Bradlees said it planned to buy the leases held by Alexander's at its department stores at Bruckner Boulevard and White Plains Road in the Bronx, at 2500 Central Park Avenue in Yonkers and in the Valley Stream Shopping Mall at 500 West Sunrise Highway in Valley Stream.
The company said it would acquire the other New York City stores through subleases from Alexander's and its landlords. The stores are at Fordham Road and the Grand Concourse in the Bronx, Roosevelt Avenue and Main Street in Flushing, Queens, and 63d Road and Queens Boulevard in Rego Park, Queens. In the Rego Park store, Bradlees said it would lease only a third of the space while Alexander's seeks other merchants as tenants for the rest.
City officials said one side benefit to Bradlees' arrival in a highly competitive New York retail industry was that the company could be expected to advertise heavily in newspapers, particularly The New York Post and The Daily News, which have traditionally attracted advertising for department stores.
The company said it planned to renovate all six stores, and open four of them sometime in 1993. It said its Rego Park and Valley Stream stores would not be reopened until 1994.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the plan by Bradlees Inc. to acquire and reopen six Alexander's Department Stores that closed in bankruptcy this year in the New York region misstated the opinion of the chairman of Alexander's on the prospect of bankruptcy court approval. The chairman, Robin Farkas, said he did not expect objections from the court, not that he did expect them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BLE (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: ALEXANDER'S INC ; BRADLEES INC BRADLEES INC (93%); ALEXANDER'S DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NEW YORK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALEXANDER'S INC ; BRADLEES INC ALEXANDER'S DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NEW YORK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; QUEENS (NYC); BRONX (NYC); YONKERS (NY); LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); HIRING AND PROMOTION ; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKRUPTCIES RETAILERS (97%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (89%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); SUBURBS (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); STATISTICS (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (56%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



778 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Big Chain to Reopen 6 Department Stores Shut by Alexander's

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
Bradlees Inc., a large discount department store based in Massachusetts, said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire and reopen six of the 11 Alexander's Department Stores closed in bankruptcy this year in the New York region. The new stores, in the Bronx, Queens, Yonkers and Long Island, could give a boost to the area's devastated retail industry.
New York City has agreed to give Bradlees tax incentives as part of the deal, but the details are not settled. 
 Bradlees, with 127 stores in the Northeast but none in New York City, said it would spend $82 million to buy or take over the leases of two Alexander's in the Bronx, two in Queens, one in Yonkers and one in Valley Stream, L.I. The stores closed in May. Bradlees said it planned to reopen four of them in 1993 and two in 1994.
The news brought relief to the Bronx and Queens, where the fallout of New York City's long and largely futile effort to retain large department stores has been the most painful.
Across the city, more than a dozen department stores have closed over the last decade amid intense competition from expanding suburban malls and a recession that undermined the finances of shoppers and merchants alike. Alexander's' bankruptcy followed those of Gimbels, B. Altman, May's, Orbach's, E. J. Korvette and others, leaving vacant shells where department stores once stood on even the busiest shopping districts of Manhattan, and the other boroughs grappling with the threat that their shopping districts might resemble urban ghost towns.
Perhaps the most important piece of Bradlees' decision for New York City is the plan to acquire the Alexander's store at Fordham Road and the Grand Concourse in the Bronx. For 50 years, that store had been the retail anchor for a vibrant shopping district in the central Bronx, providing one of the borough's last bastions of diverse retail trade.
"This reflects a hard-headed business decision that the inner city should not be written off, and that maybe department stores are not obsolete," said Samuel L. Ehrenhalt, the New York Regional Commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. It has reported a loss of 171,000 jobs in in wholesale and retail trade in New York City, Westchester and Long Island since 1988.
 
Crucial to Neighborhoods
 Retail industry analysts and urban planners say that the importance of department stores like Alexander's is immense for declining neighborhoods, because the stores tend to support smaller nearby merchants.
"There are no two ways about it," said Donald Trischetta, owner of Cohen's Optical, a store across Fordham Road from the vacant Alexander's in the Bronx, after hearing of the Bradlees plan to reopen the store.
"Any kind of anchor store over here is going to be good."
Although opening new department stores in New York City would hold great risk even without a deep recession, Bradlees said its strategy was to build retail markets in the heavily populated areas of the Northeast. For years it has run department stores in poor and mixed-income neighborhoods of Boston, including the Dorchester and Fields Corner areas.
The company completed an initial public stock offering in May. It said then that it planned to acquire at least four department stores a year.
Most discount department stores carry a wide variety of merchandise but tend to fill most of their shelves with hardware, sporting goods and packaged goods. Bradlees, itself a discounter, specializes in clothing, bedding and other household goods.
The company, which is based in Braintree, Mass., said it had considered and rejected the idea of acquiring Alexander's two vacant stores in the most affluent sections of Manhattan: the bankrupt retailer's flagship store on 58th Street across from Bloomingdales and a large outlet in the World Trade Center.
Robin Farkas, the chairman of Alexander's, said yesterday that his company was negotiating with other retailers and hoped to sell its five other New York area stores within the next year.
But Barry A. Berman, the chairman of Bradlees, said it had no interest in the other stores and would instead concentrate on renovating older stores in the Bronx and Queens. By doing that, Bradlees hopes to add to the traditional market it now serves in urban areas, including some low- and middle-income shoppers in Boston and New Haven.
In an unusual arrangement, city officials said the company had already signed leases and agreed to reopen the stores on a good-faith pledge that it would receive some form of real-estate tax reduction. Mayor Dinkins said the pledge was "to provide certainty and stability to their operating costs in the Bronx locations."
When asked about the arangement yesterday, Carl Weisbrod, a senior economic aide to the Mayor and president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, declined to provide details on what tax incentives the city would be providing, saying they were under negotiation.
He said that the approach, while unusual, was not singular. A component of the package that kept Prudential Insurance Company of America in the city recently was a pledge that taxes would not rise by more than a fixed percent a year, he said, and tax incentives also figured in the deal that kept the headquarters of NBC in the city several years ago.
Mr. Berman said his company had signed leases at the two sites in Queens, as well as those in Yonkers and Valley Stream, without government assistance. He added that the decision to reopen the two Bronx stores "was not premised on" government assistance.
Before Bradlees can take over the six Alexander's locations, the terms of its acquisition must be approved by the Federal Bankruptcy Court supervising Alexander's affairs. Alexander's said yesterday that if a better offer than the one from Bradless were submitted, it would be considered.
But Mr. Farkas, Alexander's chairman, said yesterday that his company was not now negotiating with any other potential buyers for the six New York area stores. He added that he did expect objections from the bankruptcy court.
When it closed its 11 New York area department stores in May, Alexander's said it was eliminating 5,200 jobs. Bradlees executives said yesterday that they planned to hire at least 200 workers at each of the six stores it acquires, or a total of 1,200, and would seek the best qualified candidates without giving preference to those who had been cut by Alexander's.
Bradlees said it planned to buy the leases held by Alexander's at its department stores at Bruckner Boulevard and White Plains Road in the Bronx, at 2500 Central Park Avenue in Yonkers and in the Valley Stream Shopping Mall at 500 West Sunrise Highway in Valley Stream.
The company said it would acquire the other New York City stores through subleases from Alexander's and its landlords. The stores are at Fordham Road and the Grand Concourse in the Bronx, Roosevelt Avenue and Main Street in Flushing, Queens, and 63d Road and Queens Boulevard in Rego Park, Queens. In the Rego Park store, Bradlees said it would lease only a third of the space while Alexander's seeks other merchants as tenants for the rest.
City officials said one side benefit to Bradlees' arrival in a highly competitive New York retail industry was that the company could be expected to advertise heavily in newspapers, particularly The New York Post and The Daily News, which have traditionally attracted advertising for department stores.
The company said it planned to renovate all six stores, and open four of them sometime in 1993. It said its Rego Park and Valley Stream stores would not be reopened until 1994.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the plan by Bradlees Inc. to acquire and reopen six Alexander's Department Stores that closed in bankruptcy this year in the New York region misstated the opinion of the chairman of Alexander's on the prospect of bankruptcy court approval. The chairman, Robin Farkas, said he did not expect objections from the court, not that he did expect them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BLE (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: ALEXANDER'S INC ; BRADLEES INC BRADLEES INC (93%); ALEXANDER'S DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NEW YORK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALEXANDER'S INC ; BRADLEES INC ALEXANDER'S DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NEW YORK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; QUEENS (NYC); BRONX (NYC); YONKERS (NY); LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); HIRING AND PROMOTION ; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKRUPTCIES RETAILERS (97%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (89%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); SUBURBS (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); STATISTICS (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (56%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1992



779 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS RESISTING POWERS OF CENTRAL BANKS

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:
Figures released yesterday by the Federal Reserve and other central banks suggest that the ability of the leading economies to defend their currencies on the world's foreign-exchange markets has slipped markedly in the last three years.
The figures show that currency trading has grown by about 50 percent during that period, to an estimated $1 trillion each day. At the same time, the money that the central banks have stockpiled to buy their own currencies when they are weak and to carry out other transactions has grown much more slowly. 
 In fact, the foreign-exchange reserves held by the world's central banks now amount to only $1 trillion -- no more than the average daily volume of currency trading. This means that banks are handicapped in their ability to have a significant impact on the market. Although foreign-exchange reserves can earn interest, expanding them is potentially inflationary and exposes a country to increased currency risks.
 
 
'There Are Limits'
 "It's a huge flow to fight against," Stephen H. Axilrod, vice chairman of Nikko Securities International and a former top official at the Federal Reserve Board, said in commenting on the enormous trading activity. "There are limits; you run out of reserves."
At times, however, central banks can be effective. France and Germany succeeded yesterday in stabilizing the value of the franc as activity on foreign-exchange markets slowed. [Page D1.]
Central banks like the Federal Reserve or the Bank of England act as guardians of their national currencies, defending against internal slippage from inflation or other forces, and against external attacks from heavy selling in foreign-exchange markets as opportunistic investors sashay from pounds to dollars to marks.
While some trading among currencies has always taken place, in part to facilitate trade among nations, the activity has exploded in recent years, thanks to fewer controls by nations, improved technologies for moving money electronically and greater interdependence among economies.
While there are no easy ways to count these flows daily, the central banks, acting together, have surveyed big financial institutions every three years to try to measure them. The reports issued yesterday offer the best and latest glimpse at these markets.
In the latest three-year period, London continued to reign as the world's largest foreign-exchange market. Daily foreign-exchange volume there grew to $303 billion as of April this year, up 62 percent from $187 billion three years ago. New York handled $192 billion in transactions, up 49 percent from $129 billion. Tokyo's volume reached $128 billion, up 11 perCent from $115 billion.
While London, New York and Tokyo account for a large part of the world's currency trading, trading occurs in other financial centers, including Frankfurt and Hong Kong.
 
 
Caution From Federal Reserve
 The $1 trillion estimate for daily currency trading was provided by John Footman, a Bank of England spokesman. Market analysts said this estimate appears reasonable, but the Federal Reserve cautioned that no precise figure would be available for months.
The world's foreign-exchange reserves have risen far more slowly, to $1.035 trillion in June, up from $542 billion in 1986 and $811 billion in 1989, according to the International Monetary Fund. These include foreign currencies, gold and other deposits.
Some economists doubt that central banks, whatever the size of their foreign reserves, can successfully defend their currencies in the long term. But many financial executives see the huge surge in trading relative to the reserves held by the world's central banks as dramatic evidence of the power that markets have gained at the expense of governments.
That painful lesson was demonstrated again and again in recent weeks as various European nations, from Britain and Italy to Spain and Sweden, tried unsuccessfully to defend themselves as traders dumped their currencies for stronger ones.
France's action, in concert with Germany, to hold the markets at bay and its currency stable was believed to have cost the Bank of France at least 50 billion francs ($9.8 billion), in recent days. This is more than half of the 97.8 billion francs in foreign currency reserves that the bank held at the end of August.
 "If the market has strong convictions that exchange rates are out of line with underlying fundamentals, the amount of transactions can swamp any volume of interventions," said Nicholas P. Sargen, a managing director of Global Fixed Income Advisors, a unit of Prudential Insurance. "The key issue is the credibility of defending any exchange rate."
Speculation -- betting on the direction of exchange rates -- has accounted for only some of the growth in trading in the United States. Much of the growth -- to $192 billion from about $5 billion 15 years ago -- has come from transactions related to increasing foreign investments and trade.
Within the United States, currency trading continued to grow over the last three years, by 49 percent, well below the 120 percent pace recorded from 1986 to 1989. The 10 most active banks and financial institutions handled 41 percent of all currency transactions in 1992, down a percentage point from 1989.
"Turnover continues to increase, but at a more moderate pace," said Margaret L. Greene, the senior vice president for foreign exchange at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Nations have many other means of making their money more attractive, from raising interest rates to invoking standing agreements with other governments to acquire currencies. The United States has been trimming its reserves, from $60 billion in 1990 to $50 billion in June 1992.
Most major economic powers aim, however, to maintain stocks of other nations' currencies adequate to influence the markets. As trading volume increases, influence is harder to buy.
"It certainly isn't amusing that the turnover is very large compared to the stocks of foreign currencies that central banks have," said Mr. Footman of the Bank of England.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Foreign Exchange Becomes Big Business" show estimated daily volume of foreign exchange trading in April 1989 and 1992, in billions of dollars and worldwide foreign currency reserves held by governments, in billions of dollars, 1986, 1989 and 1992. 1992 figure is as of June. (Source: Federal Reserve Bank of N.Y., International Monetary Fund, Bank of England, Bank of Japan) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (85%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (85%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (65%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK; EUROPEAN COMMUNITY BANK OF ENGLAND (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK; EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (85%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (85%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); TOKYO, JAPAN (65%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CENTRAL BANKS (96%); CURRENCIES (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



780 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-10
 
GREATER CURRENCY RISKS
As the volume of currency trading has soared in recent years, the ability of the world's leading economies to defend their currencies on foreign markets has slipped markedly, according to figures released by the Fed and other central banks. A1
 
DARKNESS IN SARAJEVO
Electricity and water are in short supply in the besieged Bosnian capital. When dusk falls, thousands are cast back into a 19th-century world of candles and oil lamps. Bathing is difficult, and contaminated drinking water is causing illness. A10
Yugoslavia's leader is at odds with those who named him. A10
 
MISSING AMERICANS: VIETNAM WAR
The Secretary of Defense when American troops were withdrawn from Vietnam in 1973 said the Pentagon believed that some prisoners might have remained in Laos, contrary to President Nixon's statement that all were heading home. A8
 
MISSING AMERICANS: KOREAN WAR
Documents from Soviet archives say that Stalin advised Communist leaders in China and Korea to hold back some captured American pilots as bargaining chips. A10
Fighting has intensified between Armenia and Azerbaijan. A10
 
IN DEFENSE OF EUROPE
Prime Minister Major of Britain told the House of Commons that Britain was committed to closer European union. But he said the details of monetary and political cooperation needed more deliberation. A3
 
BONN DEFENDS ITSELF
The disarray in Europe reached the point that the German Government was forced to deny assertions that it is part of a secret campaign with Paris to push European union over their neighbors' objections. A3
 
CLOCK TICKS ON IN BRAZIL
In a blow to President Collor's hopes of avoiding impeachment, Brazil's Supreme Court has denied him more time for his defense and ruled that the impeachment vote in congress may be open, not secret. A5
 
ANOTHER MIDEAST ROUND ENDS
As the sixth round of peace talks ended in Washington, Israeli and Arab negotiators had inched a bit closer to one another but had made no substantive breakthroughs. A6
 
IRAQ BENDS A BIT
Apparently softening Baghdad's position, the Iraqi Foreign Minister said his Government had no objection to a new United Nations' relief operation to help Kurds in northern Iraq get through the winter. A6
 
THE $4 MILLION ANSWER IN JAPAN
Japan's most influential politician was said to be preparing an admission that he received $4 million in illegal contributions from a company linked to mobsters. A9
 
Santo Domingo Journal: A Columbus celebration fizzles. A4
 
National A12-20
 
CLINTON EXPANDS HEALTH PLAN
Bill Clinton expanded on his universal health care proposal, saying he would require private employers to provide health insurance and would have the Federal Government supplement health-care protection for the unemployed. A1
 
A CAROLINA POLITICAL DIVIDE
Governor Clinton is making the Republicans work hard in North Carolina, where the crucial question is:Will Mr. Bush be hurt more by a flat economy and a tax increase, or will Mr. Clinton be hurt more by social issues and questions about his character. A19
 
PROBLEMS FOR BUSH AD TEAM
Despite the high hopes for the first Republican attack ad, the campaign's revamped advertising team has inherited serious problems that could frustrate efforts of its Madison Avenue executives, who are better known for selling automobiles than Presidents. A19
 
LATE TRIBUTE TO AN OUTSIDER
A woman who survived attacks from the Good Ol' Boy establishment and defeated six men in a Congressional primary in Georgia is now finding the checkbooks of that establishment opening to her. A18
 
HARSH CRITIQUE OF NAVY INQUIRY
A Pentagon report says senior Navy officials deliberately undermined their inquiry into sexual abuse of women at a naval aviators convention to avoid negative publicity. A1
 
BUSH ACCEPTS A TEST BAN
As part of a deal to win financing for an $8 billion research project in Texas, President Bush has accepted curbs on underground nuclear testing, and both houses passed the legislation last night. A1
 
NEW AGE ON TRIAL
A divorce case involving a woman who says she is the medium for the spirit of a 35,000-year-old warrior has in ways put the entire New Age movement of the 1980's on trial. A1
 
VOTE TO SAVE FAMILY-LEAVE BILL
The Senate voted to override President Bush's veto of the family-leave bill, but the House delayed action as the Democratic leadership took on the challenge of rounding up the votes it would need. A16
 
BUSH AND ARMS SALES
A figure in the Iran-contra affair said he believed President Bush was more involved in the arms-for-hostages deals with Iran than has been acknowledged. A12

MAYOR BRADLEY WON'T RUN AGAIN
Mayor Tom Bradley of Los Angeles announced today that he would not seek a sixth term next year after two decades that have seen the transformation of Los Angeles into one of the world's major cities. A12
 
BLACK INCOME GAP WIDENS
The gulf between haves and have-nots has grown wider in the black population, with fewer families earning middle-range incomes.A12
 
SON-PARENT DIVORCE TRIAL
A 12-year-old boy who wants to choose who will be his parents began a trial that could substantially alter the legal rights of children and broaden the debate over the structure of contemporary families. A20
 
Kentucky court overturned sodomy law. A13
 
Law Page B16
 
Metro Digest B1
 
RETHINKING HOMELESS POLICY
News analysis: Mayor Dinkins's new strategy on homelessness effectively acknowledges that his initial policy had the effect of encouraging many people to declare themselves homeless -- and that a new system was needed to insure only the truly homeless were served. A1
 
Weekend C1-34
 
Sports B8-13
 
Obituaries A21-22
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A32-33
Editorials
The Perot tease.
George Bush's stall on debates.
The cemetery called East Timor.
Topics: No litmus test needed.
Letters
A. M. Rosenthal: Hello again, suckers.
Anthony Lewis: The Bush Constitution.
Curtis Moore: Bush's nonsense on jobs and the environment.
 
Business Digest D1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ARMENIA (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (75%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ARMENIA (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (75%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CURRENCIES (91%); EURO (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); VIETNAM WAR (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); KOREAN WAR (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); ORGANIZED CRIME (68%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (60%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%); WATER POLLUTION (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); RICHARD NIXON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



781 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Democrats;
CLINTON PROPOSES MAKING EMPLOYERS COVER HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton, who has long sought to capitalize on public concern over rising health-care costs, said yesterday that if elected President he would require private employers to provide health insurance and would have the Federal Government supplement health-care protection for the unemployed.
Expanding on his universal health-care proposal in a speech to employees of a pharmaceutical firm in Rahway, N.J., Mr. Clinton said his plan would include rigorous cost controls on prescription drugs and medical procedures, encourage competition among insurance companies and guarantee access to health care. 
 Saying that his plan would "drastically simplify the administrative costs of the American health-care system," Mr. Clinton seized on an issue that many voters have cited as a prime concern this year. He also made it part of his campaign's effort to portray Mr. Bush as out of touch on the problems that most affect average Americans.
 
Assails Bush Plan
 "We've got to quit having the Federal Government try to micromanage health care, and instead set up incentives for the private sector to manage costs down within limits beyond which we absolutely must not go in spending," said Mr. Clinton, who later traveled to Manhattan for an afternoon rally. He stressed that any health-care package should concentrate on cost, coverage and access to care.
The Democratic Presidential nominee began his most specific assault yet on Mr. Bush's health-care plan, which would provide tax credits to employers to help them expand coverage. The President has also said he would lower medical costs by asking Congress to limit damages in medical malpractice cases and by streamlining paperwork, two elements that are included in Mr. Clinton's proposal.
"The Bush plan would put another $100 million in tax credits to employers to help them expand health-care coverage," Mr. Clinton said, adding that it "would only scratch the surface of the health-care issue, without acting to control increasing and burdensome costs."
 
Aid for Small Businesses
 "It would not deal with the very real problems of access that many of our people have in inner cities and rural areas," he said.
Mr. Clinton's plan would require employers to buy private health insurance or to enroll their workers in a public program. This approach would be financed through payroll taxes or some other employer contribution.
The plan, which has been growing in detail as the campaign progresses, has come under some criticism from Republicans and representatives of small business who say its mandates would be too onerous. Yesterday, the Clinton campaign altered its proposal somewhat to respond to those concerns, adding a system of tax credits designed to allow small businesses to phase in the costly coverage provisions.
Mr. Clinton said his plan would now include incentives for small companies to band together to provide pool coverage for their employees at reduced cost. He said his proposals would not harm most small businesses because two-thirds of the nation's small businesses already provide health-insurance coverage for employees.
The plan would save $700 billion in the nation's health-care bill by the end of the decade, he asserted.
"We have got to stop spending billions of dollars having insurance companies trying to minimize risk instead of insure health care, deciding who to cover and who to overcharge," Mr. Clinton said. "We have got to change that."
Mr. Clinton also called for price controls on prescription drugs and a ban on exclusions that allow insurance companies to deny coverage to people with pre-existing conditions. He has said the program would pay for itself through administrative savings but has not otherwise detailed how it would be financed.
President Bush has criticized the plan on several fronts, saying it would hurt business and would force health care to be rationed so that costs would not exceed a new Federally mandated "budget ceiling."
But Mr. Clinton said that the inequities of the nation's current health-care system amounted to health-care rationing, with its high infant-mortality rates, low birth-weight rates and lack of long-term care for the elderly.
"We are rationing health care today," he said. "But we are doing it in sneaky, bureaucratic, confusing, absolutely indefensible ways, and we ought to change it."
Alixe Glenn, a spokeswoman for the Bush campaign, said that Mr. Clinton's plan would reduce the availability of private capital to finance public drug research. She also said Mr. Clinton's assertion that the President's health care proposals would cut Medicare benefits by shifting the cost of coverage was a charge intended to "scare the elderly."
"Nowhere does our plan cut Medicare benefits," Ms. Glenn said.
Mr. Clinton made his remarks at the offices of the pharmaceutical manufacturer Merck & Company, which has gained notice by pledging to peg the cost of its products to the rise in inflation.
Both Democrats and Republicans have recognized the political potency of the health-care issue in a year when a number of political surveys have shown that voters consider it a major problem. Mr. Bush has blamed Congress for failing to implement his plan. Mr. Clinton has said that Mr. Bush wants to change the subject.
The Arkansas Governor was joined in Rahway by Democratic Senators John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia and Harris Wofford of Pennsylvania. Both have focused on health care in the Senate, and Mr. Wofford rose to national prominence when he won an upset 1990 election against former Attorney General Dick Thornburgh largely by emphasizing the health-care issue.
Mr. Wofford said Mr. Bush had been "led kicking and screaming into the future" on health care.
 
Kennebunkport World View
 The President, made a mistake when he vetoed a bill that would have allowed research using fetal tissue, Mr. Clinton said. The same measure, he said, would have provided financing for research of ovarian and breast cancers.
"This needs to be beyond partisan political debate, beyond the shallow and simplified rhetoric of hurling arrows at one's opponents," he said. "This is a matter that is critical for the future of this country's survival."
Later in New York, Mr. Clinton attended a rally at Bryant Park, a meeting with Jewish leaders and an evening fund-raising reception. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo accompanied him.

GRAPHIC: Photo: On a campaign stop in New York City yesterday, Gov. Bill Clinton greeted supporters as he arrived to address a rally in Bryant Park. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ELECTION ISSUES; HEALTH INSURANCE; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); FINANCES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (77%); INSURANCE (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (57%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



782 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Digging In Against the Serbs' Svengali

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
The Serbian-born business executive from California who was handpicked in July by hard-liners in Belgrade to be Prime Minister of Yugoslavia speaks with a voice that often seems at odds with those who named him to the post.
The Prime Minister, Milan Panic, was initially dismissed by some Western skeptics as a fig leaf for the hard-liners, an accusation that he is keenly aware of. But, he responds, "I was never a Milosevic guy," referring to Slobodan Milosevic, the staunch Serbian nationalist who is thought to be the real power in Yugoslavia. "I am a free democrat." 
 But today, after surviving the nationalists' attempts to remove him, and bolstered by poll results showing him to be the most popular politician in Yugoslavia, he is gaining the support of a growing number of Western officials.
This week Mr. Panic received plaudits from members of the United Nations Security Council, the State Department and Congress. But this new-found support was not enough to prevent the overwhelming vote on Wednesday to expel Yugoslavia from the General Assembly.
 
He's Won a Few
 Today he remarked that he had chalked up some victories over the last 70 days. He handily survived a no-confidence vote in Parliament, which is packed with nationalists loyal to Mr. Milosevic, the president of the Serbian republic. He has also forced out two top Yugoslav officials who were regarded as Mr. Milosevic's men.
Opposition parties and student demonstrators have now rallied to him.
"It is not for Panic, but that I am their hope for change," he said in an interview in Washington, where he continues to plead his case for removal of economic and political sanctions against his country.
The sanctions were imposed in the spring by the United Nations to force Serbia and Montenegro, the last two republics in the Yugoslav federation, to halt the supply of arms and men to Serbian forces fighting against Croatia and Bosnia after they declared independence. The major power in the smaller Yugoslavia is Serbia.
Despite some successes, Mr. Panic has been unable to shake the assessment by some that he is a pawn in a subtle game being played by Mr. Milosevic, who leads the nationalists working for a "Greater Serbia" encompassing territory in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Mr. Panic, these critics say, has been set up as a whipping boy for the Milosevic faction's economic and political failures.
From his career as the founder of ICN Pharmaceuticals in Costa Mesa, Calif., Mr. Panic (pronounced PAHN-itch) retains a measure of boardroom bluster.
"I am hope and Milosevic is fear," he boasted, paraphrasing a Belgrade magazine picture caption, which he displayed. But in an acknowledgement of political reality, he harbors few expectations of quickly turning around Yugoslavia's policy. "I am going back to the pirate ship with no guns," he said of his return to Belgrade next week.
 
'On a Collision Course'
 Mr. Panic and Mr. Milosevic have met several times and traded insults, he said, but the Prime Minister now wants nothing more to do with the president of Serbia. "I think I am through with him," Mr. Panic said. "We are on a collision course."
Could he end up running against Mr. Milosevic for the leadership of Yugoslavia in the elections tentatively set for the first week of December? "Maybe," he replied. "I'm not a quitter. But I need support from America."
Mr. Panic said he would push next week for adoption of a constitutional amendment that would combine the offices of prime minister and president and make the post subject to a direct ballot rather than to a vote by Parliament. He said he would run for such an office.
Mr. Milosevic is expected to oppose this plan, which would mean the voting would simply be for members of Parliament. Mr. Panic may remain in office this way, too, an adviser said.
 
Then, There's Milosevic . . .
 Mr. Panic has a daunting agenda, made questionable by Mr. Milosevic, who is beginning his sixth year as the Serbian strongman. Mr. Milosevic is blamed by the United States and other countries as the man most responsible for starting and continuing the Balkan conflict. Operating mostly behind the scenes, Mr. Milosevic has repeatedly sought to undermine Mr. Panic.
Mr. Panic arrived in Belgrade at the beginning of July with the permission but not the blessing of the United States Government. He received the blessing of President Dobrica Cosic, a novelist, but without an endowment of plenary authority. Up to now he has been able to chip off only a few pieces of Mr. Milosevic's power base.
At the end of a week in which his country was ignominiously expelled from the General Assembly, Mr. Panic says he is sure Yugoslavia will regain admittance soon as a result of his "peace policies."
With a sardonic smile, he contrasted his situation to that of President Alija Izetbegovic of shattered Bosnia: "Izetbegovic has no country but he has a seat in the United Nations, while my country is not at war and I have a reasonable amount of control but no seat in the United Nations."
In the interview, Mr. Panic said his agenda includes setting up a television channel free of control by Milosevic supporters, arranging free elections in December and taking further steps to meet requirements of the United Nations for lifting the sanctions.
Those steps include opening diplomatic relations with Croatia, Bosnia, Macedonia and Slovenia, barring expulsions of minorities and making sure that Serbs in Bosnia do not get military assistance from Belgrade, he said.
"You have to be in life an optimist," Mr. Panic said in his Serbo-American vernacular. "Show me a good loser and I'll show you a real loser. My concept is to resolve a problem. I worked in the American system. It should work in the Yugoslav system. Yugoslavs don't know where they are. I am trying to sober them up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Contrasting himself with the Bosnian President, Alija Izetbegovic, Prime Minister Milan Panic of Yugoslavia said, "Izetbegovic has no country but he has a seat in the United Nations, while my country is not at war and I have a reasonable amount of control but no seat in the United Nations." (George Tames for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); CROATIA (92%); MONTENEGRO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); CROATIA (92%); MONTENEGRO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); 

PERSON: BINDER, DAVID; PANIC, MILAN (PRIME MIN) JOSEPH C PAPA (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



783 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Mother Denies Abuse of Son Suing to End Parental Tie

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Sept. 24

 BODY:
A 12-year-old boy who wants to choose who will be his parents began a widely publicized trial here today that could substantially alter the legal rights of children and broaden the debate over the structure of contemporary American families.
The boy, Gregory K., has asked the court to end the parental rights of his biological mother, asserting that she has abused and neglected him for most of his life. He is asking the Florida juvenile court to allow him to be adopted by the foster family with whom he has lived since last October. 
 The boy's mother, Rachel K., a 30-year-old unemployed waitress, took the stand as the first witness today and in a flat monotone voice denied accusations of drug abuse, homosexuality, promiscuity and child abuse that have been made by her son's lawyers.
She wore a white, long-sleeved blazer that did not quite cover the cast on her left wrist, an injury that occurred a few weeks ago. Ms. K. said she tripped over a kitten and fell down a flight of stairs, but Jerri A. Blair, one of Gregory's lawyers, said a police report indicated that she was beaten by the man she lives with in Missouri.
 
Mother and Son Disagree
 When Ms. K. denied that she had a black eye from being hit by her boyfriend, Steve Hack, Gregory turned to 16-year-old Tiffany Russ, one of his foster sisters, and said, "Yes, she did."
Sitting in the courtroom not far from his mother, Gregory played tick-tack-toe and sucked on peppermint candies as his lawyers, including his foster father, George H. Russ, attempted to portray his biological mother as a troubled woman who neglected Gregory and two younger brothers who are still living with her and are not part of the suit. Mr. Russ is part of the legal team representing Gregory in a trial that is being heard by Judge Thomas S. Kirk without a jury.
Mr. Russ, a lawyer in Leesburg, a small town about an hour from here, and his wife, Lizabeth, took Gregory in as a foster child last October. The Russes have eight of their own children, four of whom appeared in court today sitting alongside Gregory.
At one point he questioned Ms. K. directly about the alcohol evaluation that the court had ordered her to undergo in 1990. Ms. K. said she had undergone the evaluation this past week.
 
'Liked to Go Out Partying'
 A witness, Jeanette Glynn of Sunrise Beach, Mo., said Ms. K. "liked to go out partying," and often had different men spend the night with her.
Ms. Glynn, Ms. K.'s former sister-in-law, said that she had seen Ms. K. drink and smoke marijuana in front of her children and that she had seen Ms. K hit her children. "One time when Gregory was around 2 or 3 years old, I don't remember what he had done, but I was sitting at the table with Rachel when she got up and smacked him upside the head," she testified. "He fell down, screaming."
Ms. K. said she placed Gregory in foster care and moved from Orlando to Missouri in May 1991 because she wanted to be closer to family and friends who could help her take care of the two children still with her.
 
Saw Placement as Temporary
 She has said she always intended the placement to be temporary. "I thought if I worked hard the children would be returned to me," she said today.
In the last eight years, Gregory has lived with his natural mother for only seven months and has been placed in foster care three times.
Gregory's natural father, Ralph K., has relinquished his parental rights, if the Russes adopt Gregory.
Robert Noll, a supervisor with the Florida Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services, testified that the state believed Gregory should not be reunited with Ms. K.
"At this time, the best interest of the child is that he be allowed to remain in the Russ home," Mr. Noll said.
In opening statements this morning, the boy's lawyers asserted that his mother was not fit to retain her parental rights. "This child, Gregory K., has been severely and repeatedly neglected," Ms. Blair said.
Ms. K.'s lawyers, Jane E. Carey and her husband, Harry Morall, tried to show that in recent months she has tried to take better care of her children. More important, they said, the State of Florida should respect "the right of natural families to be together," over any other interest.
In the months since the boy first tried, with the help of his foster father, to end his relationship to his natural mother, the case has created widespread interest as a touchstone of many current political, social and legal controversies.
When Judge Kirk ruled, in July, that Gregory had the right to sue to sever the parental rights of his natural parents, it was believed to be the first time in the nation that a minor had ever been given such legal authority.
While children's advocates believed the ruling represented an important and long-sought extension of the rights of children, some conservatives mocked it and said it would lead to thousands of frivolous lawsuits by unhappy children seeking to "divorce" their parents.
It was this type of legal case that Patrick J. Buchanan was alluding to when, at the Republican National Convention in August, he mocked Hillary Clinton, the wife of the Democratic Presidential nominee, Bill Clinton, for writing that 12-year-olds should have the right to sue their parents.
In law journal articles from the 1970's, Ms. Clinton wrote that there were serious circumstances in which a child's interests differ substantially from a parent's, and that children have legal rights as individuals that have long been ignored.
The unusual interest in the trial, which is expected to last two or three days, has opened up the normally secretive world of child custody proceedings to the full view of the national press and cable television, which carried the trial live.
Gregory K. is expected to testify in the trial on Friday. Judge Kirk has said that he would like to rule as quickly as possible once all the testimony has been given.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gregory K. in court yesterday in Orlando, Fla., on the opening day of his lawsuit. The 12-year-old has asked the court to end the parental rights of his natural mother, accusing her of being abusive and negligent. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (55%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (55%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; TRIALS CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); FOSTER CARE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); GAY PARENTING (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); FAMILY (78%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (78%); JUVENILE COURTS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); CONTUSIONS (76%); CANNABIS (71%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; GREGORY K (CHILD DIVORCE LITIGANT); RACHEL K GEORGE H RUSS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



784 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Mayor Won't Run Again

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Mayor Tom Bradley announced today that he would not seek a sixth term next year, after 20 years in office during which he presided over the transformation of Los Angeles from what was barely more than a collection of suburbs into one of the world's major cities.
"The time for change has come," Mayor Bradley said at the New Otani Hotel in downtown Los Angeles. "I have served a record five terms as your Mayor. Others should now have the opportunity and responsibility to bring their vision to bear on the future of this great community." 
 After his remarks, the Mayor was kissed by supporters, some of whom had interrupted his remarks with shouts of "four more years."
His announcement, ending intense speculation, was typical of the 74-year-old Mayor's enigmatic style: a major decision reached privately and held close to the vest until the last moment. The retirement of Mr. Bradley, who is the city's first black Mayor, is the most significant in a series of recent departures among city and county officials that clears the way for a new generation of leaders at a time of social and economic crisis.
 
Local Economy Is Staggering
 At least a dozen men and women are poised to compete for the Mayor's seat next year, and their racial and ethnic mix -- blacks, whites, Asians and Hispanic people -- is a testament to his accomplishment in integrating the city's power structure.
After years of growth and relative harmony among the city's many ethnic groups, the economy is staggering, partly the result of state and Federal cutbacks, and its residents remain shaken and divided by the worst urban riots this century.
The riots' burned-out mini-malls remain as part of Mayor Bradley's legacy, along with the glittering skyscrapers that symbolize his success in helping create what residents now take pride in calling a "world-class city."
In his remarks today, the Mayor said, "The April unrest tore at my heart, and I will not be at peace till we have healed our wounds and rebuilt our neighborhoods."
Rioting broke out after four white police officer were acquitted in most of the charges in the beating of a black motorist, Rodney G. King. Shortly after the riots, Chief Daryl F. Gates of the Police Department resigned under intense pressure in which Mayor Bradley played an important role.
The city's new adornments, along with the high-rise downtown that did not exist before he came to office, are a major port and international airport, a sophisticated cultural life and proud memories of the 1984 Summer Olympic Games that crystallized Los Angeles's emergence as a vital and successful metropolis.
Addressing some of the city's characteristic urban problems, he has put energy and money into improving public transportation and reducing air and water pollution.
But at the same time, Los Angeles was developing a two-tiered social and economic structure with a vast and growing immigrant base that has turned it into what one scholar calls the nation's first third-world city.
 
Magnet for Immigrants
 "Los Angeles has emerged as literally the city of the future, where people of color -- Asians, blacks and Latinos -- constitute the majority of the population," said the scholar, James Johnson, director of the Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at the University of California at Los Angeles.
A magnet for immigrants from around the world, particularly Latin America and Asia, Los Angeles has rapidly become a polyglot international mix where more than 80 percent of public school students are non-white.
"This is the most diversified major city in the world in terms of population," said Larry Berg, a political scientist at the University of Southern California.
In a city with a weak mayoral system, in which the Mayor does not have the power to dismiss department heads or to direct their day-to-day management, Mayor Bradley's strength came from his skill at consensus building.
"He was at his most powerful when he was able to put together a strong coalition on the City Council," said John Emerson, a former deputy city attorney.
In such a diverse city, where blacks make up only 12 percent of the population, Mayor Bradley relied on a political base that included the affluent, liberal West Side as well as support from many Jewish voters.
His presence in City Hall appeared to serve as a steadying influence for the city's black population, and blacks rose to hold a disproportionate number of elected positions. But many younger blacks complained that the Mayor did not represent them, focusing instead on the wealthy establishment.
The inner-city area of South-Central Los Angeles, scene of the Watts riot in 1965 and of last April's even greater turmoil, was left to stagnate as the skyscrapers rose in the distance.
As both the upper and lower economic tiers have expanded, with the rich growing richer and the poor growing poorer, the city has been losing its middle class as industries have disappeared, most recently in the fields of defense and aerospace.
 
Criticism and Praise
 It is a situation that may have contributed to the catastrophic riots in which more than 50 people died and property damage approached $1 billion. Critics say Mayor Bradley's focus on development of the city's downtown left its poorer neighborhoods to fester.
Although the Mayor is praised for his ability to build coalitions among the city's various groups, the riots have caused a heightened fragmentation and anger.
"He came to office with the stated goal of unifying the city," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political scientist at the Claremont Graduate School. "It may have happened at one point, but at the end of his tenure we see a city that is even more divided."
But most politicians and analysts here had praise for the Mayor on the eve of his announcement.
A sharecropper's son who has devoted 50 years to public service -- two decades as a police officer rising to the rank of lieutenant, then a decade as the first black City Councilman -- Mayor Bradley, in his quiet way, has dominated this city's recent history.
"Los Angeles proved some people wrong," the Mayor said in his remarks today. "The people who said that a black man couldn't go to college, couldn't rise through the ranks of the police force, couldn't attain the highest public offices."
Mike Gage, a former Deputy Mayor under Mayor Bradley, described him as "incredibly capable of walking a mile in everyone else's shoes, and that may have made him appear less forceful on certain issues."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Tom Bradley of Los Angeles as he announced that he would not seek re-election. (Agence France-Presse)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RIOTS (88%); CITIES (79%); POLICE FORCES (79%); OLYMPICS (77%); COUNTIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); SUBURBS (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); AIRPORTS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); ETHNICITY (65%); ETHNIC GROUPS (65%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; BRADLEY, TOM (MAYOR) TOM BRADLEY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



785 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
The ability of nations to defend their currencies has slipped markedly in the last three years, figures released by the Federal Reserve and other central banks show. Currency trading has grown by 50 percent in three years, to an estimated $1 trillion daily, about as much as central banks' foreign-exchange reserves. [Page A1.]
The turmoil in the European currency markets abated as a joint effort between France and Germany stabilized the value of the franc and improved the odds that Europe's tattered monetary system would hold together. But analysts said the franc and several other weak currencies remained vulnerable. [D1.] 
 Finance ministers and central bankers from 172 countries called for more cooperation to get the global economy moving, as the the I.M.F. and World Bank meeting concluded in Washington. [D1.] Partying at the meeting in this recessionary year was almost as lavish as a church supper. [D1.]
Mexico's President Salinas appears willing to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement if Bill Clinton is elected president -- despite reports to the contrary three days ago. [D1.]
 
Markets
The New York Fed is collecting data on the "squeeze" on the Treasury's seven and 10-year notes, which forces some traders to pay very high premiums to borrow the securities they want. Prices of Treasuries rose with the 7.5 percent 30-year bond offered at 981/32 , up 23/32 , to yield 7.41 percent. [D1.]
Bargain-hunters bid stocks up with the Dow industrials adding 9.18 points to close at 3,287.87. [D4.]
Uncovered short sales rose in the over-the-counter market for the eighth consecutive month. [D15.]
The dollar was mixed in calm trading, edging up to 120.55 yen. [D12.] Natural gas futures prices fell sharply, as producers exploited the steep price advance of September. [D12.]
 
The Economy
The economy grew at a slightly less anemic rate than first thought in the second quarter, 1.5 percent, but new claims for unemployment benefits rose for the fourth straight week, the Government said, citing hurricane-related claims. [D14.]
Companies
Insurers' stocks surged on the expectation that the high losses from Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki would lead to higher premiums. Continental Insurance set off the rally by announcing that it had lost $200 million and that it was lowering its dividend. [D3.]
Lenders to Olympia & York's Canary Wharf project rejected the only firm bid for the troubled real estate development. [D3.]
Wang Laboratories said its loss would be far worse than the $139 million previously announced for the fiscal year that ended on June 30, but the bankrupt company gave no figures. [D3.]
Lewis B. Campbell accepted Textron's offer to be chief operating officer less than 24 hours after the Providence-based conglomerate extended it. He headed G.M.'s truck division. [D2.]
General Motors faces a strike in Lansing, Mich., where negotiators representing the company and the U.A.W. have been trying since August to resolve a disagreement over how the plant will schedule rest periods, a matter that affects job security. [D3.]
The S.E.C. sued a public relations executive of Motel 6 and 17 other people accusing them of illegal insider trading in the takeover of the economy motel chain in 1990. [D11.]
 
Today's Columns
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines is seeking a seamless operation with Northwest Airlines to compete in an increasingly deregulated global market. Market Place. [D4.]
Epitomizing disappointments at Leo Burnett was Oldsmobile's shocking decision to review its account, estimated at $110 million to $140 million. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CURRENCIES (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RECESSION (77%); FUTURES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BONDS (77%); INSURANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); NATURAL GAS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); HURRICANES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (61%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); LEWIS B CAMPBELL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



786 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Income Gap Thins Middle-Class Blacks

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Two economic trends wedging rich from poor in the United States -- the rise of the two-income family and the loss of blue-collar jobs -- have widened the gulf between haves and have-nots in the black population, a new Census Bureau report shows.
The percentage of high-income black families more than doubled from 1967 to 1990, according to the new figures. At the same time, the proportion of black families at the lowest income level grew by 50 percent. In 1990, more than one black family in nine earned less than $5,000 a year. 
 On the whole, there has been a steady increase in median family incomes for blacks. But the rate of that increase has slowed recently.
 
Black Middle Class Thinning
 The widening gulf has meant a marked decrease in the proportion of black families in the middle-income ranges.
For instance, in 1967, the earliest year for which the report gives any statistics, 16 percent of all black families fell in the second-to-the-lowest income category, with family incomes of $5,000 to $10,000 in 1990 dollars. By 1990, the proportion of black families in this category had declined to 14.1 percent.
In the $10,000-to $25,0000-range, there was a decrease from 41 percent of black families to 30 percent. Only in the lowest income category and in the income ranges above $35,000 did the proportion of blacks increase.
The census figures dovetail with a recent report from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington, showing that Southern and Midwestern states where blacks are a large percentage of the population were more likely to show rapid increases in income disparity in the 1980's. Income disparity grew rapidly in Indiana, Illinois, New York, Virginia and Kentucky. In Louisiana, the state where the disparity grew fastest, 31 percent of the population is black.
 
'Cause for Real Concern'
 "The deepening of poverty, which affects whites and Hispanics as well, is particularly true among a substantial segment of the black community, and is cause for real concern," said Robert S. Greenstein, the center's executive director.
Mr. Greenstein and other economists and sociologists said they expect the trends to continue, particularly in a sluggish economy. "We're going to see continued expansion of welfare rolls and government assistance programs at a time when there is considerable pressure to cut those demands," said Chris Winship, a professor of sociology at Northwestern University.
"The real question is whether the Government going to ask the increasingly wealthy to support the increasingly poor."
 
More 1-Parent Families
 Other economists see the figures simply as a reflection of the dramatic decrease in the number of two-parent families in the black community. According to the census report, more than three-quarters of black families were headed by married couples in 1950. In 1990, that proportion had declined to 50 percent, and in 1991 it dipped to 47.8 percent. About 46 percent of all black families last year were headed by single women.
"There are two things driving these numbers," said Douglas J. Besharov, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a research center in Washington. "First is the economy. But there is a second, underlying trend which is much more powerful. That is the breakdown of low-income families, and not just black families.
"Americans as a whole are not marrying at the rates they used to," Mr. Besharov said. "That's exaggerated among the very poor."
Among middle-class blacks, the dominant factor contributing to rising incomes was the tendency to have more than one wage earner in a family. In constant 1990 dollars, the median income of black families in which both husband and wife worked went from $28,700 in 1967 to $40,038 in 1990, an increase of 40 percent. For white families in the same period, family incomes increased 17 percent, from $40,040 to $47,247.
 
White-Black Gaps Remain
 These gains for two-income black families brought them closer to similar white families in overall income. In 1967, two-income black families earned 72 cents for every dollar earned by their white counterparts. In 1990, that figure had risen to 85 cents.
However, Mr. Greenstein pointed out that the average income among the top fifth of black families was $61,213, about 64 percent of the $95,042 average income of the top fifth of all white families.
Among those interviewed, liberals and conservatives alike pointed to the rise of the single-parent family as a major reason the income gap was increasing, particularly for blacks.
Referring to the television comedy that has become a touchstone for the family-values debate in the Presidential campaign, Mr. Besharov said, "Murphy Brown notwithstanding, it's all but impossible for a high-school dropout who gives birth to her first baby at 19 to be anything but poor."
Burton Y. Pines, a conservative who is chairman of the National Center for Public Policy Research, said he believed that the increase of new businesses in the Reagan years was a driving force in increasing the proportion of higher-income families in the black population.
"The most important economic statistic we have is new business creation," he said. "Under President Reagan, new businesses were being created at a rate of 325,000 to 350,000 a year. We know from the census figures that blacks, Hispanics, and women are creating new businesses at a rate much faster than white males. That, to me, explains the enormous income increases in the black middle and upper classes."


GRAPHIC: Black family income in constant 1990 dollars

 	 	 		1967	1990	Earning less than $5,000	8%	12%	Earning more than $50,000	7%	15%	All other income categories	85%	73%	
 
(Source: Census Bureau)
Graph: "Incomes for Blacks: Going to Extremes"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BLACKS (IN US); INCOME FAMILY (91%); CENSUS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); TRENDS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



787 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Memo;
Bush Ad Strikes, but Problems Loom

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
To the relief of gloomy Republican advertising connoisseurs, Bush campaign officials this week finally broadcast a television commercial that they thought might actually help their cause.
But it takes more than one good commercial to sell a product -- or a President -- to a public that is looking at the new brand on the market. And despite the high hopes for this ad, the campaign's revamped advertising team has inherited serious problems that could frustrate efforts of its Madison Avenue executives, who are better known for selling automobiles than Presidents. 
 The commercial was the Bush campaign's first effort in this campaign to throw an electronic mud pie at Gov. Bill Clinton, but the bashing of the Democratic Presidential nominee as a big taxer and big spender was made digestible with humor.
Although the script was kicking around long before Sig Rogich was summoned back to the campaign a week or so ago from his post as Ambassador to Iceland, the advertisement is covered with his fingerprints: It hits Mr. Clinton hard, but it has memorable touches like the Governor moving in fast forward with hillbilly music playing in the background. Bush aides were so enthusiastic about the ad that they took the rare step of inviting reporters to their headquarters here for a preview.
 
Biggest Obstacle Is Time
 Democrats attacked the ad as misleading, but no one was saying it was not effective.
But obstacles loom over Mr. Rogich, a former Las Vegas advertising executive. The biggest is time; many of the Bush commercials produced before he arrived need to be redone or scrapped, and it is unusual for a campaign to have to come up with many new ads so late in the game.
Some Bush officials also said they were concerned that the campaign frittered away money by placing national advertisements on the networks instead of the more efficient approach used by the Clinton campaign of targeting ads to specific battleground states, where television commercials are far less expensive. Republican officials said that by buying national advertising, the campaign was seeking to increase support for Mr. Bush around the country before buying local ads. The problem is that the President's support has not significantly risen.
The campaign's media experts are also debating just how negative their commercials should be, and whether attack ads should focus on Mr. Clinton's economic record in Arkansas, like the advertisement shown on Wednesday, or on more personal issues, like his draft record.
Mr. Rogich, a former Bush image-maker who was Ambassador for only 114 days before being summoned back by James A. Baker 3d, the new White House chief of staff, to coordinate the advertising effort, played down the time constraints and insisted that the effort was on track.
"You can't plan months and months out because things do change," he said. "I'm very comfortable that we'll be able to provide the support in the advertising end for the President without missing anything."
But the job of injecting order and aggressiveness quickly in an ad team that was criticized as uninspired can be daunting.
"You had a huge bureaucratic operation that needed to be streamlined," said Don Sipple, a Republican consultant who worked for the Bush campaign earlier this year. "But time is short. The campaign was way behind the curve as far as producing stuff."
Even Mr. Rogich has not had a chance to get a handle on all the unfinished ads on his desk. In an interview, he said he had never heard of a commercial that the campaign filmed earlier this month featuring Adrian Cronauer, the disk jockey portrayed by Robin Williams in the movie "Good Morning Vietnam," attacking Mr. Clinton on the draft.
There is an inherent friction on the Bush campaign between political types who think they understand advertising and ad executives who think they understand politics, and Mr. Rogich's job is to smooth relations between the two sides.
"You'd have hours of meetings with these guys," one Bush official said of the Madison Avenue contingent, "and they'd come back at the end of the day and say they hadn't been given clear direction."
But the executives said they never got clear marching orders. "Everybody's running in different directions," said Sean Fitzpatrick, the creator of Chevrolet's successful "Heartbeat of America" commercial who quit the Bush ad team last month. He would write scripts, he said, but never get a response from the campaign hierarchy.
"I never got any answer," Mr. Fitzpatrick said in an interview. "We called it the black hole."
The black hole appears to have been filled. Mr. Baker signed off on the attack ad, campaign officials did, and Mr. Bush agreed to the concept.
Mr. Rogich signaled that he is not hesitant about stepping up the attack in coming days. But like most ad people, he prefers terms like "comparative" to "negative."
"It's fair game to be comparative," he said. "There's a reason we keep records: to compare them to the opposition. We just have to be absolutely certain that we are honest in our presentation."
But campaign officials concede that the test ahead is how they proceed with the sensitive issue of attack advertising: How much stronger do they criticize Mr. Clinton? And on what issues?
"The biggest danger is not doing it right," said Doug Watts, the advertising director for President Ronald Reagan's re-election campaign in 1984. "You only get so many shots with the cream pie. And if you take a lot of wild, flailing shots and they don't hit the mark, then of course you're very suspect."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ICELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ICELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TELEVISION POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GOVERNORS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); COUNTRY MUSIC (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



788 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Pulse -- North Carolina;
Presidential Race in North Carolina: Fierce Fight Across Cultural Divide

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C., Sept. 23

 BODY:
The talk turned to family values, and Representative David E. Price, seeking to score a partisan point, told his audience, "You'd think if the President was so interested in keeping families together, he'd be willing to support time off for new mothers."
With that, a tall man in the back row jumped to his feet and said: "Family values got nothing to do with economics. It's whether you teach your children to love the Lord." 
 The exchange took place a week or so ago at a "town meeting" held in a Raleigh school by Mr. Price, a Democrat, and he said it summed up for him the cultural divide in North Carolina politics. It also encapsulates a crucial dimension of the contest here between President Bush and Bill Clinton: will Mr. Bush be hurt more by a flat economy and a tax increase, or will Mr. Clinton be hurt more by social issues and questions about his character?
When the President flew into Greensboro on Wednesday, the Arkansas Governor held a narrow lead in the public polls. But the Republican advertising campaign is just starting, in a state noted for tough, negative, effective Republican television blitzes, with ads that have made the Willie Horton broadside of 1988 look as benign as a gauzy A.T. & T. commercial. Although the Democrats are more hopeful here than at any time since 1976, several of them, used to losing, said this week they thought Mr. Bush might yet eke out a victory.
 
Yearning for Tomorrow
 "I wish the election were tomorrow," said Nick Galifianakis, a former Democratic Representative who lost a bruising Senate battle to Jesse Helms in 1972. "They're masters at trashing us at the 11th hour. They play on people's emotions, get them to think, 'Maybe we shouldn't take a chance on someone we don't know,' and I'm afraid they'll do that to Clinton."
Still, Mr. Clinton has a solid chance, and he is making the Republicans work hard for North Carolina, which is now the nation's 10th most populous state, with 14 electoral votes. In the South, only Texas and Florida, both special political cases, are bigger, which has made this state a major 1992 battleground. Wednesday's visit by Mr. Bush was the 16th of the campaign by a Presidential or Vice-Presidential nominee or one of their spouses.
If Mr. Clinton wins North Carolina, he will probably be the next President, because what it takes for a Democrat to win here is what it takes for a Democrat to win nationally -- a strong appeal to rural and suburban whites, still nominal Democrats, who usually vote Republican. As it has grown, the state has become more like traditional swing states in the Middle West, such as Ohio and Michigan, and less an exotic political landscape.
Middle America, in other words, has moved South.
"Clearly, there are a lot of registered Democrats who have voted Reagan-Reagan-Bush-Helms-Helms who are once again available to the Democratic candidates, and there are lots of women and younger voters among the Republicans and independents who are back in play," said Harrison Hickman, a Democratic poll-taker working this year for Senator Terry Sanford, who is seeking re-election, and Jim Hunt, the party's candidate for Governor.
 
A Novelty No More
 Compared with Jimmy Carter in 1976, Mr. Clinton and his running mate, Al Gore, will probably benefit relatively little from a Southern cousin vote this year, because the novelty of a Southerner seeking the Presidency has dissipated. But Mr. Clinton has succeeded in repositioning himself and his party as moderates of the kind that often win local races in this region.
"He's running a Southern governor's race writ large," said Ferrel Guillory, the Southern correspondent for The News and Observer in Raleigh. "He learned in Little Rock how to wend his way through the thickets of our politics, how to hold the black vote without alienating the whites, how to target spending in such a way that people think it helps them directly.
"That's got him in the game here, though he won't necessarily win."
Jack Hawke, the Republican state chairman, said the Democrats had gotten a two- or three-week jump in the campaign with what he called "the best convention operation I've ever seen, nominating two Southerners, both perceived as moderates, and grabbing terrific media attention with that bus trip, a very clever idea."
But he said Mr. Bush had come back strongly and might even be narrowly ahead, at least partly because the state's economy was better than most and Mr. Bush's troubles on that topic were less of a liability here. North Carolina, he said, has the lowest unemployment figures of any big state.
 
'A Third-World Economy'
 Democrats said they doubted that people here were satisfied with their economic lot. Bill Green, a longtime campaign adviser to Senator Sanford, argued that "people in eastern Carolina, a lot of them Reagan Democrats, know they're living in a third-world economy, and they want to change that." Others noted that even with high employment, the state has a relatively low median income because of low pay levels in key industries like textiles.
Mr. Clinton has probably been hurt more here than in other states by the controversy over his draft status during the Vietnam War and by his ambiguous stand on the Persian Gulf war. North Carolina is home to six major military installations, including Fort Bragg, base of the 82d Airborne Division, and it has always had a hawkish and patriotic tradition.
"We sent more troops to Desert Storm than any other state," said Mr. Hawke, "and people know that Clinton's support for them was lukewarm."
Mr. Sanford voted against the gulf war resolution, and that issue will certainly be kept front and center by his Republican opponent, Lauch Faircloth, who is backed by the Congressional Club, Mr. Helms's potent fund-raising organization. There are widespread reports here, however, that the club has not been able to pull in as much money as needed with Mr. Helms ailing and less active and his own name absent from the ballot.
Carter Wrenn, the head of the Congressional Club, said he anticipated a close Presidential race, with neither candidate even approaching 60 percent of the total vote. But he asserted that "the President has come back right much down here" after a slow start. The main reason, he said, is that "Southerners know all about these slick-talking Democrats like Clinton, who try to quack and walk like something else, and they don't like them."
The Republicans' appeal to the religious right at their Houston convention, which jarred so many in Chicago and San Francisco and New York, played well among conservative Southern Baptist voters here, said Thad Beyle, a professor of political science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, though many of them may have been Republican loyalists already.
Representative Price, a Baptist lay preacher who once served as Democratic state chairman, said that cultural and social issues such as abortion and homosexual rights "could still drive a wedge into the Democratic electorate, as they have in the past." But in this year's campaign, he argued, most voters are "fixated on economic issues, which includes health care and education, and less willing to be diverted from them."
"They're pressing all the hot buttons," he said of the Republicans, "but so far, they don't seem to be getting the response they expect."
Recent private polling for the Democrats sustains that view. It also shows a sharp upward trend since the Houston convention in Clinton support among women, especially politically independent women, who were apparently offended by attacks on Hillary Clinton that many took as veiled assaults on working women. And it shows Mr. Clinton well ahead of the President among voters who describe themselves as moderate, a group that voted solidly for Mr. Bush in 1988.
Three closely watched House races, in addition to the contests for the governorship and Mr. Sanford's senate seat, may help to swell the turnout, and that may aid Mr. Clinton. Two of the House races involve blacks -- Eva Clayton in east Carolina and Mel Watt in the center of the state, both of whom are expected to win -- and the third is taking place in the marginal district in the western mountains.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In North Carolina, now a major campaign battleground, the Republicans' appeal to the religious right played well among conservative Southern Baptist voters, some of whom attended services at the Calvary Baptist Church in Winston-Salem. The state is also home to six major military installations and has a hawkish and patriotic tradition. Two soldiers shopped for a car in Fort Bragg. (Photographs by Wade Spees for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Southern Swing State"
 Though North Carolina is home to the high-tech corridors of the New South, social and cultural issues remain important. It has sent Jesse Helms, standard-bearer for traditional morality, to the Senate since 1972, and the Republicans' best hope for picking up a Senate seat this year could be displacing Terry Sanford, who voted aginst the Persain Gulf war resolution.
 
Population

 	 	 	 		1980	1990	 	Total	5,881,766	6,628,637	 	White	75.8%	75.6%	 	Black	22.4%	22.0%	 	Other	1.8%	2.5%	 	Hispanic origin	1.0%	1.2%	 	
 
People pf Hispanic origin can be of any race.
Numbers may not add up to 100% because of rounding.
 
Registered Voters

 	 	 	 		1988	1992	 	Total	3,432,042	3,527,187	 	Democrats	65.5%	62.1%	 	Republicans	29.6%	31.6%	 	Unaffiliated or other	4.9%	6.3%	 	
 
How North Carolina Has Voted in Presidential Elections
 
1976
 Ford: 44.2%
 Carter: 55.2%
 
1980
 Reagan: 49.3%
 Carter: 47.2%
 
1984
 Reagan: 61.9%
 Mondale: 37.9%
 
1988
 Bush: 58.0%
 Dukakis: 41.7%
 
Per Capita Income
 1991 figures are the most recent available and are not adjusted for inflation.
 
1988
 N.C.: $14,567
 U.S.: $16,853
 
1991
 N.C.: $16,618
 U.S.: $19,092
 
Unemployment
 
August 1988
 N.C.: 3.3%
 U.S.: 5.5%
 
August 1992
 N.C.: 6.2%
 U.S.: 7.8%
 
(Sources: Census Bureau; North Carolina Board of Elections; America Votes; North Carolina LAbor Department; U.S. Commerce Department, Bureau of Economic Analysis; U.S. Labor Department, Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: RALEIGH, NC, USA (92%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH CAROLINA UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (92%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 FAMILY (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) DAVID E PRICE (88%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



789 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Briton Repeats His Commitment to Europe, but Warily

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Prime Minister John Major told a clamorous session of the House of Commons today that Britain was committed to closer European union, but he said the details of future monetary and political cooperation still needed further deliberation.
After eight hours of often acerbic debate, Mr. Major and his Cabinet won a narrow vote of confidence, 330 to 288. It came a week after his Government had to make an embarrassing policy reversal and back out of the European monetary system, causing the value of the pound to fall steeply. 
 Mr. Major defended his Government's action, saying it had been helpless to overcome huge speculative pressures on the pound. But the Prime Minister said the jittery financial markets only underscored the depth of doubts and apprehension in France, Britain and elsewhere over both the monetary system and the treaty on European union, suggesting that a slower and more careful course was required.
 
Changes Sought in System
 "The good European does not ignore those fears but seeks to put them right," said the Prime Minister, adding that rising doubts over Europe must not tempt Britain into becoming "a sour, isolated country off the mainland of continental Europe."
He said Britain supported the monetary system, but would not rejoin it until changes were made in the exchange rate mechanism, which sets upper and lower limits for all European currencies and which he blamed for contributing to the pound's decline.
And while the Prime Minister said he was committed to the treaty, which narrowly won ratification from French voters on Sunday, he felt it did not go far enough to take into account national interests within the decision-making process.
The treaty, which Mr. Major signed with other European leaders in Maastricht, the Netherlands, in December, is a blueprint for closer political and economic cooperation among the 12 member nations of the European Community.
 
Others Want to Press Ahead
 Such remarks are likely to put the Prime Minister further at odds with government leaders on the Continent, including Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany, who want to press ahead with the treaty under a timetable that envisions its ratification by the the end of the year.
On the domestic front, Mr. Major is also facing angry political criticism, both from the opposition Labor Party and a small but noisy group of rebels within the ranks of the Conservative Party who say last week's fiscal turmoil has sharpened their outright opposition to European union.
Several members of Parliament spoke tonight in favor of a national referendum, as in France, to allow the British people a chance to vote on the treaty, a move Mr. Major opposes. Kenneth Baker, a former member of Mr. Major's Cabinet, argued that the events of recent days had torn "a gaping hole" in the Maastricht treaty.
Amid growing criticism of his policies, Mr. Major last week agreed to demands that he recall the House of Commons from its annual recess and schedule a special two-day debate on the Government's economic and European policies.
 
The 'Devalued' Mr. Major
 Looking defensive and a bit tense, Mr. Major was interrupted repeatedly by noisy outbursts and catcalls between rival party loyalists.
John Smith, the Scottish lawyer who took over this summer as Labor leader, brought his party to its feet, waving papers, when he described Mr. Major as "the devalued Prime Minister of devalued Goverrment."
In a mocking attack, Mr. Smith blamed Mr. Major and his Conservative Party for the longest recession in Britain since the 1930's.
It proved to be a hard day all around for Mr. Major, as he faced the most serious political test of his 22-month career as Prime Minister. Tonight, he suffered another setback when David Mellor, a Cabinet minister and close personal friend, resigned from the Government in the wake of a sex and favors scandal.
Stories about Mr. Mellor, whose post as National Heritage Secretary earned him the sobriquet "Minister of Fun" because his brief included arts, the news media and sports, had displaced the fall of the pound and the Europeans crisis on the front pages of British papers in recent days.
 
Under Renewed Attack
 Last summer, Mr. Mellor acknowledged newspaper reports of a torrid extramarital affair with an Italian actress. But he came under renewed attack recently after revelations that he and his family had accepted a free vacation from the daughter of a top official of the Palestinian Liberation Organization.
In his remarks before the House of Commons, Mr. Major said Britain would rejoin the European currency system system, a cornerstone of future European economic policy, but only after it had been "made to work for the benefit of all its members."
Speaking of the Maastricht treaty, Mr. Major emphasized Britain's longstanding apprehensions about tying itself to a highly centralized bureaucracy in Brussels that would limit or frustrate British policy makers.
He said he wanted "to put in place" some unspecified agreement that would give more leeway to the national interests of individual member nations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister John Major and his Cabinet won a narrow vote of confidence yesterday after backing out of the European monetary system last week. Mr. Major addressed the House of Commons. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (93%); NETHERLANDS (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (93%); NETHERLANDS (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY PRIME MINISTERS (92%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); EURO (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); REFERENDUMS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TRENDS (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E; MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN) DAVID MELLOR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



790 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Paul Tully Is Dead at 48; Top Democratic Strategist

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Paul Tully, the political director of the Democratic National Committee and one of his party's pre-eminent strategists, was found dead in Little Rock, Ark., today. He was 48 years old.
Coroner Steve Nawojczyk of Pulaski County said Mr. Tully's body was found about 3 P.M. today by a maid at the hotel where he was living in Little Rock. Pending results of an autopsy, the coroner said Mr. Tully appeared to have died of natural causes. 
 Mr. Tully was among the most impassioned and intense of a generation of Democratic political professionals who devoted much of their lives to regaining the White House. He worked in every Presidential election since 1968.
He had moved to Little Rock this fall to aid in Gov. Bill Clinton's drive for the White House. Ronald H. Brown, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said in a statement tonight: "There will be only one Paul Tully. Pacing, driven, and full of joy, Paul's commitment to our party and, more importantly, to making this great nation even greater was a fire that burned bright and long."
In a statement, Mr. Clinton said, "Paul had one of the nation's greatest political minds, and one of its biggest hearts."
Mr. Tully was a fixture in Democratic Presidential politics, working for Senator Edward M. Kennedy in 1980, for Walter F. Mondale in 1984, for former Senator Gary Hart's first Presidential campaign in 1987, and, briefly, as a top aide to Michael S. Dukakis. Mr. Tully resigned from that campaign along with John Sasso, the campaign manager, after Mr. Sasso acknowledged giving reporters a videotape that showed Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. using parts of another politician's speech. The disclosure helped set off the collapse of Mr. Biden's Presidential campaign.
Mr. Tully was convinced that 1988 was a winnable election for the Democrats, and he spent much of the next four years arguing that a new Democratic majority was emerging in the country; at the Democratic National Committee, he led the party's efforts to prepare for this campaign, and oversaw the integration of those efforts with the Clinton campaign.
 
Economy as Issue
 Even at the height of Mr. Bush's popularity after the Persian Gulf war in 1991, when many Democrats considered this election an almost certain defeat, Mr. Tully made the rounds of party gatherings with his slide shows and his charts, arguing that Mr. Bush had serious vulnerabilities. He was known in political circles for his blunt assessments, his fierce partisanship and his love of the game. At a time when many analysts still believed that the 1992 election would be heavily influenced by foreign policy and the ability to serve as Commander in Chief, Mr. Tully declared, "This is about money in my pocket, prices for the essentials of life, the level of fear on the block."
James Carville, the senior strategist for the Clinton campaign, said: "This guy's whole life was Democratic Presidential politics. He had worked for four years on this -- he had every map, every target, he probably knew the name of every swing voter in the country."
Mr. Tully was born in New York City, grew up on Long Island, and was a graduate of Yale College and the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
He is survived by two daughters, Jessica and Miranda Tully; a brother, Jim Tully, and a sister, Patricia McDermott.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Tully (Paul Conklin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (69%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); DEATHS (90%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); DESERT STORM (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: TULLY, PAUL; TONER, ROBIN BILL CLINTON (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



791 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

ON THE TRAIL WITH CLINTON
Gov. Bill Clinton chose a big pharmaceutical company in Rahway, N.J., for a major speech about health care. And with egalitarian self-interest, many in the crowd of 2,000 people came to hear the bottom line: how his plans would affect their families, their careers, their employees. Then it was on to New York City. And for Robert Abrams, campaigning to unseat Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the timing of that visit could hardly have been better -- even if much of the lunchtime crowd had dissipated when Mr. Clinton finally arrived at Bryant Park. B6.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
A NEW COURSE ON THE HOMELESS
The Dinkins administration's new strategy for dealing with the homeless effectively acknowledges that its initial, generous policy had the perverse effect of encouraging many impoverished New Yorkers to declare themselves homeless -- and that a new system was needed to make sure that only the truly homeless were served. A1. 

VALLONE'S POLICE-REVIEW PLAN
Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone entered the debate over Mayor David N. Dinkins's proposal for an all-civilian agency to investigate police misconduct. He said he would offer a bill requiring that the police union have some influence in the make-up of any such agency. B3.
 
ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL IN SAN JUAN
Having helped her to an upset victory over an influential Congressional veteran, Mayor David N. Dinkins went to Puerto Rico with Nydia Velazquez, and used her triumphant homecoming to gather some political capital of his own. B3.
 
"A terrible nudnik" heads for Congress. Man in the News, B3.
 
REGION
 
NEW FACES, BUT WHOSE?
About the only question left concerning the Congressional elections in New Jersey six weeks from now is whether Republicans will outnumber Democrats in the delegation for the first time since 1964. That is a real possibility because the new districting map was drawn by the Republicans and three of the four Congressmen retiring are Democrats. B5.
 
PAROLEE ARRESTED IN SLAYING
A 31-year-old convicted murderer, released from prison only five months ago, was charged today with the slaying two weeks ago of a 38-year-old mother of two in the bedroom of her home in Centerport, L.I. Neighbors of the victim, Patricia Van Nostrand, were relieved to get word of the arrest, but expressed anger on learning that the suspect was a parolee, convicted of killing a man in Queens in 1983 in an argument over a marijuana cigarette. B5.
 
THE IMPORTANCE OF A NEW BUS ROUTE
Last June, Donna Smith was praised for heroism after she piloted a school bus full of terrified kindergarten children, one of them badly wounded, out of a street-side gun battle in New Haven. This week, she was dismissed by the bus company for refusing to drive a new route that she considered dangerous. But after threatening a lawsuit, Ms. Smith got what she wanted: her old job and a new route. B5.
 
Our Towns by Andrew H. Malcolm B5
 
Chronicle B7

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Unemployment Claims" tracks people in New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut filing their first state unemployment insurance claim. The graph runs from January 1991 through April 1992. (Source: State labor departments)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: VAN NOSTRAND REINHOLD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PAROLE (87%); HOMICIDE (85%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (83%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); FAMILY (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); CHILDREN (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); CITIES (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); MURDER (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); CANNABIS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (63%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



792 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: For Burned-Out Businesses, More Hope Than Help;
Bronx Merchants Say They Have Seen City Agencies' Promises, Too, Turn to Ashes

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
On a sunny day last July, Stanley Bell stood helplessly outside his electronics shop and watched a business he had built up over 40 years vanish amid a swirl of flames and smoke. A scrappy businessman, he vowed to rebuild, determined to stay put in the central Bronx neighborhood that nurtured his company, Belco Distributors.
He was reassured by a procession of city officials who convened meetings and pledged help with loans, building improvements and cutting through red tape in his dealings with city agencies. He was heartened that his store was salvageable and its inventory largely intact. 
 But two and a half months after a five-alarm fire that started accidentally in a pile of rubbish swept through several businesses on East Tremont Avenue, Mr. Bell is foundering on a bureaucratic odyssey of frustration and promises unkept.
His business was a small one -- just himself and five employees. But his struggles, and those of his neighbors, show how long and hard the road back can be for merchants -- especially those in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods -- hit by catastrophic events.
Mr. Bell is no closer to rebuilding than he was on that July day, and his employees remain unemployed. His insurance company has yet to settle his claim. He and other merchants say city agencies have done little since the initial rush of meetings.
And each day his hopes grow dimmer. Vandals have repeatedly dropped in through a gaping hole in the store's roof, stripping the place of air-conditioners, fixtures and even its aluminum storefront. His customers, hundreds of livery-cab drivers to whom he sold two-way radios, have defected to his competitors, who privately gloat at his misfortune.
"I don't want anything for nothing, I just want to get started," he said, standing outside what remained of his store at 418 East Tremont Avenue. "It takes a lot of heart out of you because it takes so long."
While resources are available from the government, wresting them from the bureaucratic maze can be another matter, said Ron Shiffman, a member of the city's Planning Commission and director of the Pratt Center for Community and Environmental Development, in Brooklyn. The city, he said, has yet to perfect a rapid response to disasters like the East Tremont fire.
"After the initial hype, unless you have people on the front lines who expedite the situation and follow through, it tends to fall to the wayside," Mr. Shiffman said.
The commissioner of the city's Department of Business Services, Wallace L. Ford 2d, insisted that the experience of the Tremont merchants was not typical. But he said he was in the midst of coordinating the efforts of agencies involved with business development, a process he called difficult and time consuming.
"You're talking about a $29 billion corporation with over 40 different agencies," he said of the city government. "It is a major reorientation task that we're talking here."
Before the fire, the block was one of the area's most stable and vibrant, a tidy strip that included a hardware store, restaurant, blueprint service and Belco Distributors. While other stores farther east on Tremont never quite rebounded from the looting after the 1977 blackout, Mr. Bell's block survived untouched. Business was so good that on some days, double-parked delivery trucks and livery cabs clogged traffic.
"It looked like we were giving out free cheese," joked Americo Torres, the manager of Belco Distributors.
Almost immediately after the fire, Mr. Bell and the others decided to rebuild. Officials from the Department of Business Services, the Economic Development Corporation and the Bronx Borough President's Office assuaged their fears the day after the fire and met with them twice in the next two weeks.
 
Many Agencies
 Francisco Gonzalez of the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation said the meetings were to coordinate city offers of technical assistance, street and facade improvements and applications for tax abatements and low-interest loans. He added that the strip was targeted for a pilot program to create a streamlined look for the new storefronts.
The Department of Business Services, recently reorganized to serve businesses better, Mr. Ford said, was helping to run interference. Barbara Wolff, the assistant commissioner, said her agency had helped insure that the police paid attention to the block in the weeks after the fire.
But Mr. Bell said that the police attention waned after three weeks, leaving his store vulnerable to the looters who struck. What irritates him even more is that the looting could have been prevented and the rebuilding begun if the promised city assistance had come through.
Although Mr. Bell has hired a contractor to clear debris and seal the hole in the roof, the contractor said that she has been lost in a thicket of city forms and requirements. When he and other store owners reported to a late August hearing on the buildings' status, they found that no meeting had been scheduled, and the representative from the city's Buildings Department was on vacation. The meeting has not been rescheduled.
 
Insurance Problems, Too
 In the meantime, Mr. Bell has been haggling with his insurer, Aetna Casualty and Surety Company, which last week offered a $108,000 settlement on a policy with a full value of $200,000. Mr. Bell said he needed $220,000 to rebuild and $10,000 to replace damaged merchandise.
Myra Packman, a lawyer advising Mr. Bell, said his situation is not uncommon among small-business owners.
Stephen Wasdick, a spokesman for Aetna, said there had been problems communicating with the adjuster hired by Mr. Bell to expedite his claim. He cited a delay getting copies of Mr. Bell's tax returns.
Mr. Wasdick said the settlement offer was less than the policy's full value because the building was not completely destroyed. He said he was optimistic of a quick settlement following recent meetings with Mr. Bell.
Jesus Rodriguez, the co-owner of Tremont and Webster Hardware, a thriving business burned beyond recognition, is not so concerned about his insurance settlement, which he thinks will cover the $400,000 in lost inventory. He is more worried about rebuilding the gutted store.
He is relying on a low-interest city loan, since a commercial loan, if he could get one, would come with prohibitive terms. Both Mr. Rodriguez and Mr. Bell said they were assured by Craig Hazel of the Economic Development Corporation that such loans were available. At a meeting in late July, Mr. Rodriguez said Mr. Hazel advised him to put together his tax returns and other financial statements to begin the application process for a $250,000 loan. Mr. Rodriguez complied within a week, but he said Mr. Hazel had yet to return his phone calls.
Mr. Bell, who decided to apply for a $50,000 loan, said he got through to Mr. Hazel after calling for two months. He said he was promised an application form, but none was delivered. He finally got it last week from Elvis Herrera of the Bathgate Industrial Park Local Development Corporation, who several merchants said was one of the few people who has consistently offered help.
 
Official Responds
 Mr. Hazel denied that he had advised anyone to apply for a loan of more than $50,000, the maximum the program offers, and said he had told the merchants early on that they did not qualify because they needed more than that maximum. He said Mr. Bell adjusted his request downward after being told of the limit but has not submitted an application.
He said that the state's Urban Development Corporation could provide funding for major rebuilding if the merchants applied as a group. Steven Vitoff, a spokesman for the state agency, said there have been some exchanges of information that could lead to loans or grants.
"The city truly wants to help these people," said Joy Taylor, the Economic Development Corporation's senior vice president for lending programs. "But the program is not going to create a stir in reopening when all you do is add to their problems if you lend them money that is not sufficient."
She said the merchants had not been able to reach her agency because the phones were being upgraded.
Mr. Rodriguez said talk is all he's gotten from the city since the fire. His finances are strained, house payments are becoming burdensome and his wife has been forced to return to work. Luckily, he said, he continues to work in a Washington Heights hardware store in which he is a partner, and he has helped his former employees find work at other businesses owned by his relatives.
 
Help From Other Owners
 About the only people he said had helped him were, oddly enough, other hardware-store owners in the area, who promised to supply him with materials for rebuilding.
He laughed when he remembered the early meetings with city officials at which they told him and the other merchants that the government was 100 percent behind them. He wonders when he'll be able to reopen.
"I can understand maybe we were not knocking on doors every day," he said. "Maybe it's our fault. But who do I have to talk to to get my store? It's not my fault I lost my business."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pedro Rodriguez, left, his son, Jesus, center, owner of a hardware store, and Stanley Bell, owner of an electronics shop, stood on East Tremont Avenue in the Bronx outside their damaged stores, which have yet to be rebuilt after a July fire. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B1)
 
Map showing the site of the fire. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BELCO DISTRIBUTORS (58%); DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS SERVICES (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS SERVICES (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; BRONX (NYC); EAST TREMONT AVENUE (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FIRES AND FIREMEN; SMALL BUSINESS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); FIRES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); CITIES (76%); TRENDS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); LAND USE PLANNING (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BELL, STANLEY (BRONX STORE OWNER); GONZALEZ, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



793 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Fed Looks Into 'Squeeze' In Treasuries

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The "squeeze" on the Treasury's seven- and 10-year notes has become tight enough to prompt the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to collect information on dealer positions and study the dynamics of the shortage of securities.
A squeeze, which forces some traders to pay very high premiums to borrow the securities they want, is not necessarily illegal. But it can be if there is collusion involved in creating a shortage of securities. 
 The Federal Reserve Bank, which is collecting the data as part of the broadened market surveillance effort that was started after the Treasury auction scandal involving Salomon Brothers in August 1991, confirmed the special request to dealers for information yesterday.
 
Hedging Operations
 Several dealers said yesterday that they saw nothing happening beyond a normal squeeze on the 10-year note. There is a shortage of the securities because so many dealers have sold them, without actually owning them, as part of hedging operations against large holdings of corporate issues that have been difficult to sell to customers recently.
Two traders, who asked not to be identified, said Yamaichi International, a primary dealer, was at the center of the shortage of seven-year notes.
But Scott E. Pardee, co-chairman of Yamaichi, dismissed the accusations as finger-pointing. "There has been a tendency on the part of people in the center to point fingers at people who are not in the center, so I am not surprised that they are trying to point the finger at us," he said.
Mr. Pardee, a former Federal Reserve official, said traders had done similar finger-pointing at Yamaichi earlier this year in connection with a squeeze of 10-year notes, so his firm was being "scrupulously careful in this." He said the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in earlier situations, "has done a good job in making sure that no one is sitting on the bonds."
The measure of a squeeze or shortage of notes or bonds is in the repurchase market, where these securities are borrowed. In normal circumstances, a dealer swaps cash for the securities. He lends the cash to the holder of the securities at daily market rates, which are around 3 percent.
But when there is a shortage, the dealer must "pay" by lending that cash at lower than market rates, a move that benefits the dealer who has the securities. Yesterday, the rate on 10-year notes was at zero, while the rate on seven-year notes was around 1/8 of a percent.
 
Involvement of the Fed
 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York has gathered such data on seven other issues this year, including the five-year note that was auctioned in July, said a spokesman, Peter Bakstansky. "We are tying to better understand the positions in the market and the market dynamics," he said.
In similar instances earlier this year, the information gathered has gone to the interagency working group for Treasury market surveillance, which includes the Treasury, the Fed and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Under the changes made after the Salomon bidding scandal, the Treasury said it would use its power to make additional securities available to the market to end any acute shortage or squeeze in the market. Although this weapon has not been used, the increased surveillance is part of the first step that would lead to a decision on whether to break up a squeeze.
 
Treasury Market
 Prices of bonds and notes rose yesterday, spurred by some sluggish employment figures and comments from a Federal Reserve Board governor, Wayne D. Angell.
In late trading in the secondary market, the 7.5 percent 30-year bond was offered at 981/32 , up 23/32 , to yield 7.41 percent, down from a yield of 7.48 percent on Wednesday.
"We're now in a trading range bound by the bottom yesterday and the top earlier this month," said Terrence Crowe, vice president at Nikko Securities. He was referring to the recent high yield on the 30-year bond of 7.48 percent, which was hit Wednesday, and the 7.21 percent low, which was touched on Sept. 8.
Another trader noted: "People are buying into weakness and selling into strength. So we're probably into some kind of wide trading range."
The focus of the market has already turned to the September employment report, which is to be released next Friday and will be the last such report before the Presidential election. Mr. Angell made this clear yesterday when he said in a speech in Kansas City, Mo., that the unemployment rate for this month would be higher than the consensus forecast, which is around 7.7 percent to 7.8 percent.
When the comment was reported in the afternoon, prices of bonds and notes moved higher. In the morning, the market got its first lift, when the Government reported that initial claims for unemployment compensation had risen by 15,000, to 414,000, in the week ending Sept. 12.
If the employment report is surprisingly negative, the bond market, which has fallen sharply over the last several weeks, could get a lift because investors would expect the Federal Reserve to cut short-term interest rates again -- if not before the election, then sometime before the end of the year.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows the average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from June-Sept. 1992. (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. D11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (94%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK; YAMAICHI INTERNATIONAL (AMERICA) INC FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK; YAMAICHI INTERNATIONAL (AMERICA) INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BONDS (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); SCANDALS (71%); 

PERSON: PARADEE, SCOTT E; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



794 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Pacts Elude New York City And Unions

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
A year after most of New York City's contracts with municipal labor unions expired, contract negotiations are stalled, union officials and mayoral advisers say.
Each side blames the other for the failure to make progress in the talks, whose outcome could have a major impact both on the city's fiscal standing and on the mayoral election next year. 
 The city is projecting a budget gap of $1.3 billion for the fiscal year that begins next July, and the ability of Mayor David N. Dinkins to keep the city's finances stable will depend significantly on the size and shape of the labor settlements.
The bargaining could also play a role in the Mayor's re-election effort. Support from many municipal labor unions was critical to Mr. Dinkins's election in 1989, and at least one union official has already suggested that she might not back him next year if she remains dissatisfied with the contract talks.
 
No Move From Positions
 The major issue in the contract talks is the city's insistence that its fiscal distress is so severe that the only way it can give municipal workers a raise is through productivity savings or other union concessions. The city has not budged from its position, and neither have the unions, which say they will discuss concessions only after the Dinkins administration first puts some money on the table.
The Dinkins administration has been negotiating intermittently for months with dozens of unions, some of which have formed a large coalition for bargaining while others are negotiating on their own.
The latest round of talks with the major coalition -- a group of 15 unions that includes District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, by far the largest municipal union -- began with some fanfare in June. Since then, leaders of the coalition have met with city negotiators only twice, according to labor leaders and mayoral advisers.
"There hasn't been a whole lot of progress being made," a senior mayoral aide said. Some city officials speculate that the coalition may be waiting for the city to settle first with the teachers, although those talks, too, are languishing. In turn, some union leaders who say the teachers may have the best case for a raise speculate that the city is reluctant to settle first with the teachers.
Some small progress has been made by one of the coalition's bargaining subcommittees on a proposal for an early retirement program that could reduce the city's work force, a labor negotiator said.
And the sanitation workers agreed in principle to help finance a raise in part through concessions, as the administration has demanded, but a specific agreement eluded negotiators. In a contract reached last March, the city gave the sanitation workers a one-year raise of 3.5 percent. Both sides then said they would reach an agreement within a month that would require the trash haulers to work a more complete workday by extending their collection routes.
The route extensions in a sample collection district were then to serve as a model for achieving similar productivity gains within a year for each of New York's 59 trash-collection districts.
But the city and the union have still not reached the initial accord, and the matter is in arbitration.
Money, of course, remains at the core of the city's impasse with most of its unions. A 1 percent raise for all of the city's more than 200,000 workers would cost about $150 million a year. So a wage increase that kept pace with inflation, about 3.5 percent, that would cost the city more than $500 million a year. A three-year contract -- city officials say they are looking for a long-term deal -- would cost between $1.5 billion and $1.8 billion a year in the third year, city officials say.
The recession and the city's budget strains make such a wage increase impossible, the Mayor and his aides contend. "The traditional rules of bargaining do not apply," said one of the Mayor's advisers. "They have to work with us to help find solutions."
But many labor leaders insist that there is some flexibility in the city's $29.5 billion budget. They also contend that their workers deserve a raise and that the city has deliberately hidden money in its budget for an anticipated raise.
"The workers who run this city do a hell of a job, and they need to be treated with respect and dignity," said Stanley Hill, the executive director of District Council 37 of American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
But finances are only part of the reason for the impasse. In the private, complex world of city labor relations, there are many other forces at work that complicate the talks and make progress elusive.
City officials believe that the slow pace of the talks with Mr. Hill's coalition shows that the unions want the city first to make a deal with the United Federation of Teachers. The teachers, who contend that they are paid less than teachers in other parts of the region, may have the best argument for a significant raise.
In 1990, the city settled first with the teachers, granting a 5.5 percent increase, which Mr. Dinkins's critics contended was too much. The agreement made it difficult for other union leaders to settle for substantially less than the teachers' pact.
This year, the city's talks with the teachers are also stalled. Many labor experts suspect that the Mayor does not want to have the teachers set the standard again. At the request of the teachers union, a state mediator recently began talking with each side.
But if the Mayor thinks it is in his interest to settle first with the large coalition -- which represents more than half of the municipal work force -- he has several major hurdles to overcome. Some labor experts believe that, even if the city were to soften its posture and offer a small raise, Mr. Hill would find it very difficult then to negotiate productivity savings or other concessions.
District Council 37 is itself a huge coalition of very diverse locals. What might be a reasonable concession for city social workers, for example, might not be seen as reasonable by city hospital workers.
Complicating the talks are administrative charges filed last week against Barry Feinstein, the president of Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. City officials say they fear that the accusations involving union expenditures -- which are not criminal charges but which could result in his expulsion from the union -- will distract him.
Mr. Feinstein, who heads the union bargaining coalition with Mr. Hill, is a leading labor official and would ordinarily be central to any contract.
City officials say they are hopeful that a tentative agreement reached two weeks ago with the firefighters union could invigorate the other negotiations. The 30-month contract, nearly all of which is retroactive, calls for a 4.5 percent raise -- roughly the same as many of the unions won in 1990, but for a term twice as long as the other unions' 15-month deals.
Some mayoral advisers argue that the firefighters essentially settled for two 15-month contracts, the second at no raise. They suggest that the firefighters' willingness to accept no raise should be matched by the other unions, but labor leaders say they will have none of that. "I'm not going to use the firefighters as a model," Mr. Hill said.
Some city officials speculate that Mr. Hill's coalition and many of the other unions, including those representing teachers and police officers, are in no rush to make a deal. The union leaders may be hoping that, as next year's mayoral election approaches, the pressure will mount on Mr. Dinkins, forcing him to grant raises to win union endorsements.
But Norman Steisel, the First Deputy Mayor, said that if that is the labor leaders' strategy, they will be disappointed.
"The Mayor has made it clear that he has got to do the right thing for the city," Mr. Steisel said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS; WAGES AND SALARIES; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); PRODUCTIVITY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; MAYORS LABOR UNIONS (95%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); MAYORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CITIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COUNTIES (73%); LABOR FORCE (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (66%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) ; FINDER, ALAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



795 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: At the Bar;
In Quayle's home state, a lawyer and ex-backer doesn't like the Republican attacks on the bar.

BYLINE: By David Margolick

DATELINE: LEBANON, Ind.

 BODY:
Among the otherwise forgettable ad hoc groups supporting this year's Presidential tickets, one seems particularly odd. In fact, it could be called "Masochists for Bush-Quayle," for it is made up of what have become the Republicans' favorite whipping boys and girls: lawyers.
On Sept. 15 the Bush campaign unveiled the names of the 100-member steering committee of Lawyers for Bush/Quayle '92. These practitioners are alike in several ways. If, as their favorite candidates contend, America has too many lawyers, none considers himself to be among the surplus. None of them have ever filed a frivolous lawsuit or harmed American competitiveness. All firmly believe that when the President and Vice President chastise lawyers, they are clearly talking about someone else. 
 But there is a dissenter on the committee, and in the unlikeliest of venues: here where Dan Quayle lived as a young boy.
Earlier this year, when Peter Obremskey of Lebanon was asked to join the steering committee, he casually agreed, then quickly forgot about it. After all, Mr. Obremskey was a lifelong Republican who cast his first vote in a Presidential election for Barry Goldwater, liked President Bush all right and knew Mr. Quayle, with whom he had played golf several times at the Ulen Country Club, a stone's throw from the house where Mr. Quayle's grandmother once lived. So his name appears on the list -- with Lebanon misspelled.
But the 56-year-old Mr. Obremskey is a trial lawyer -- one of the tassled-shoes set who, after the committee's formation, became a scourge of the Republican National Convention, along with liberals and homosexuals. Much of his livelihood comes from representing accident victims, and he is past president of the Indiana Trial Lawyers Association, which represents those representatives.
So furious is Mr. Obremskey over the Bush-Quayle bar-bashing that on Tuesday, after a reporter's call reminded him of his presence on the list, he quit the steering committee. And come November, he says, he is contemplating something even more radical: casting his first vote ever for a Democratic Presidential candidate.
Mr. Obremskey, a starting forward on the 1958 Hoosier basketball team that won the Big Ten, says his outrage is not a function of hurt feelings, wounded professional pride or economic self-interest. Instead, he says, by making scapegoats of lawyers the Bush-Quayle campaign is poisoning public perceptions of the profession, polluting jury pools and perverting the judicial process, all to score some cheap and ultimately ephemeral political points.
"It's bad for the Republican Party, it's bad for the legal profession and it's bad for the population of this country, because it impacts on the poor bastards I represent," he said.
Truth be told, few on the steering committee actually like the anti-lawyer fulminations. "They were painting with a broader brush than they needed to," said John C. Shepherd of St. Louis, a past president of the American Bar Association.
Another in the association's huge stable of former presidents, Eugene Thomas of Boise, Idaho, said the Republican standard-bearers had been "misadvised."
To Mr. Obremskey, these lawyers represent fat cats -- the fat cats at the receiving end of personal injury lawsuits -- and can afford to be forgiving. "They don't deal with people who get run over and maimed," he said. "It's the little guy who's affected by this anti-lawyer propaganda."
His partner and fellow trial lawyer, Kent Frandsen, says he feels the same way, though for him the subject is more painful. Mr. Frandsen's late father, G. Kent Frandsen, a one-time judge and director of admissions at the Indiana University Law School in Indianapolis, officiated at the Quayles' wedding ceremony. And it was the senior Mr. Frandsen who had to field the barrage of questions about just how someone with the mediocre grades and low test scores of Mr. Quayle got into law school. The experience was so stressful, his son believes, that it led his father, a healthy 61-year-old, to suffer a fatal heart attack within days of the 1988 election.
He "always had a special place in our hearts," says the handwritten note from the Vice President hanging on Kent Frandsen's office wall. But the younger Mr. Frandsen said his father would be "disappointed" to hear Dan Quayle engaging in anti-lawyer diatribes. Mr. Obremskey was more blunt: "He'd turn over in his grave."
Mr. Obremskey said he still liked Mr. Quayle and did not think he actually believed everything he said. He suggests that the Vice President, like the caddies on the Ulen links, is carrying someone else's clubs.
"By upbringing and because he was born with a silver spoon in his mouth, Dan Quayle's natural inclination is ultra-conservative," Mr. Obremskey said. "But he's just a puppy dog. He's become a tool of the far right and a pawn of big business."

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: LEBANON (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: IF AS (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;INDIANA LEBANON (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; LEGAL PROFESSION; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); JURY TRIALS (74%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); GOLF (65%); LIBERALISM (63%); BASKETBALL (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: OBREMSKEY, PETER; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); MARGOLICK, DAVID GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



796 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Sues 18 in Motel 6 Insider Case

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The Securities and Exchange Commission sued a public relations executive of Motel 6 and 17 other people yesterday, accusing them of illegal insider trading in the takeover of the economy motel chain in 1990.
The suit, filed in Federal court in Manhattan, seeks repayment of $4.5 million in reportedly illegal profits and penalties of three times that amount. The civil suit also names the brokerage firm Gorman Commodities and Securities Inc. of Beverly Hills, Calif. 
 The United States Attorney's office in Manhattan also filed criminal charges against two of the people who traded on the Motel 6 takeover tips.
 Dallas-based Motel 6, a nationwide chain of economy motels, was acquired by Accor, a French hotel and tourism company, in August 1990. Before the takeover, Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company had owned a majority stake of Motel 6 through various partnerships.
On July 12, 1990, Accor announced it would buy Motel 6 for $22.50 a share, almost $6 a share higher than the previous day's closing price on the New York Stock Exchange.
The S.E.C. charged that Hugh Thrasher, executive vice president in charge of corporate communications at Motel 6, had told his close friend Carl Harris about the planned deal. Mr. Thrasher, who retains his position at the company, reportedly was financially supporting Mr. Harris at the time.
The suit contends that Mr. Thrasher told Mr. Harris about the deal to bestow a gift" upon him. Mr. Harris has since died.
 
Charge Is Vigorously Denied
 Charles Stillman, Mr. Thrasher's lawyer, said his client denied the charges.
"Mr. Thrasher did not trade on Motel 6 securities and he made no profits directly or indirectly on trading by others," Mr. Stillman said. "He did not tip anyone and intends to defend the S.E.C. action vigorously."
Motel 6 said in a statement that it had cooperated fully with the S.E.C. It said it was "obviously distressed" about the allegations against Mr. Thrasher, a longtime key executive, but felt it improper to comment further while the suit was pending.
In its suit, the S.E.C. is asking the court to order Mr. Thrasher to repay at least $227,939 representing illegal trading profits made by others.
The S.E.C. contended that Mr. Harris had tipped two relatives, his two roommates and numerous friends, most of whom traded on the information.
Some of those individuals paid Mr. Harris a percentage of their profits in exchange for the information and also passed the tip to others, the commission said.
Jeffery Sanker, one of Mr. Harris's roommates, and Gregg Shawzin, one of Mr. Harris's friends, were named in separate criminal charges. Both live in Beverly Hills, Calif.
The criminal charges contend that Mr. Sanker, 36 years old, who was a Los Angeles nightclub promoter, received $20,000 for tips he gave to others, which resulted in more than $480,000 in illegal profits. He is also charged with perjury.
If convicted, he faces a possible maximum prison term of 10 years and fines of more than $500,000.
Mr. Shawzin, 33, the owner of Futures Link Inc., a Beverly Hills commodities firm, reportedly made more than $550,000 from his own trades. If convicted he faces a possible maximum prison term of five years and fines of $250,000.
Of the 18 individuals named in the S.E.C. complaint, four have settled by agreeing to repay illegal profits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (70%); AC (PAR) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: MOTEL 6 INC; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC); GORMAN COMMODITIES & SECURITIES INC KKR & CO LP (70%); ACCOR SA (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (96%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOTEL 6 INC; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC); GORMAN COMMODITIES & SECURITIES INC SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (96%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: INSIDERS INFORMATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; STOCKS (CORPORATE); VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS LITIGATION (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); 

PERSON: THRASHER, HUGH CARL HARRIS (92%); HUGH THRASHER (92%); GREGG SHAWZIN (55%); CHARLES STILLMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



797 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Economic Consensus Is Elusive

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
After a week in which currency speculation bore more fruit than international economic cooperation, finance ministers and central bankers from 172 countries left here saying that more cooperation would get the global economy moving again.
Even before high-level meetings began in Washington a week ago, the economic officials were unhappy about forecasts that the global economy would grow by a feeble 1 percent this year. Now they fear that Europe's currency crisis will make things even worse. 
 "Global prospects provide little cheer," Manmohan Singh, president of India's central bank, told the ministers. "Exchange rate volatility in the major industrial countries has added to the instability."
 
Officials Propose Solutions
 At session after session of the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, official after official insisted that there were solutions: more international economic cooperation would unlock world growth and calm frenzied currency markets, deficit cuts by big-deficit industrial nations would increase buisness confidence and reduce long-term rates, and lower trade barriers would spur growth by increasing investment.
Dozens of ministers called on the United States, Britain, Germany and Italy to adopt strong plans to reduce their deficits over the next three to five years, a move they said would go far toward easing foreign exchange tensions.
 
Accepting Their Own Advice
 "I find it somewhat ironic," said John Dawkins, the head of Australia's central bank, "that many of the developed countries have not willingly adopted the policies they have urged and, in some cases forced, upon the developing world."
Most ministers also urgently called for concluding the 108-nation Uruguay Round of talks that aim to reduce trade barriers.
Despite all the appeals for greater international cooperation, few analysts expect the major industrial powers to join hands overnight on coordinating policies. Leaders of the Group of Seven industrial nations are too preoccupied with their own political and economic woes, economists said.
"Political leadership in the industrial world has weakened," said Henry Kaufman, head of an economics consulting firm. "Where are the one or two political leaders in the industrial world that can marshal resources and opinion to forge a cooperative economic effort?"
Take interest rates. Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady took the lead in campaigning for Germany and other countries to lower interest rates, saying that this would give growth a shot in the arm. Privately, American officials asserted that Germany's stratospheric rates were a major drag on world growth.
Displaying the sharp tensions within the Group of Seven, German officials huffily rebuffed such pleas, saying their central bank needed to keep their rates high to cut inflation to 2 percent from 3.5 percent.
Much of the talk in the meeting rooms and in the hallways was about how problems in the three largest industrial nations -- the United States, Germany and Japan -- were dragging down everyone else in the world's increasingly interdependent economy. The economic big three are all suffering from problems undermining growth, and no one expects instant turnarounds that would allow any of the three to be a locomotive for the stalled global economy.
"The recovery is going to be less rapid than from past postwar recessions, because there's no strong driving force," said Lawrence H. Summers, the World Bank's chief economist. "Nineteen ninety-one was one of the worst years for the world economy since the war, and 1992 will be somewhat better, but not good enough."
The United States is so weighed down by low consumer confidence, a $320 billion budget deficit and heavy consumer and business debt burdens that many economists see continued sluggishness for months to come.
Germany's weak growth is not likely to pick up anytime soon because the German central bank seems intent on keeping interest rates high to bring down inflation. The Bundesbank's high rates are tugging down growth throughout Europe.
As for Japan, that much-envied dynamo, its economy slid close to recession in the second quarter because the stock market and real estate values plummeted and its banks are in shaky condition. Japan's new stimulus program of more than $86 billion provides perhaps the brightest ray of hope for heating up the world economy.
"Although Japan is the world's second-largest economy, the spillover from Japan to other countries will be fairly modest," said John Williamson, an economist with the Institute for International Economics, a Washington-based research group. "The big problem is that while we expect some recovery eventually, there's nothing that will really catapult the world economy."
Michael Mussa, the International Monetary Fund's chief economists, said the world economy would gradually pick up steam, reaching a respectable 3 percent growth rate next year. He said interest rate cuts in the United States and elsewhere were already stimulating economies, adding that consumer spending and confidence should pick up as consumers worked down their debt loads.
The I.M.F.-World Bank meeting is normally the developing nations' day in the sun, but this year Europe's currency crisis completely overshadowed their concerns, making many third-world ministers complain that the rich were neglecting the poor. At the meetings, many officials fretted that Europe's currency tensions would push up long-term interest rates, push down stock prices and hurt business confidence -- in developed and developing country alike.
 
Global Interdependence Stressed
 Emphasizing how interdependent the global economy is, Lewis T. Preston, president of the World Bank, said in a closing news conference today, "The developing countries, whose prosperity depends on their exports, will suffer if these events lead to a further slowing of growth in the industrial economies."
He implored the industrial nations to do more to spur growth to help the developing world. He said that if the rich nations recovered quickly from the current slump, that would increase the third world's exports by nearly $50 billion a year. That sum, he noted, is almost equal to the foreign aid that developing nations receive each year.
If there was any good news at the meeting, it was the unexpected turnaround of the developing nations. In the past, when the industrial world caught cold, the developing world came down with pneumonia, but during the current slump, the poor outperformed the rich.
The developing world is expected to grow by more than 6 percent this year, largely because many countries in Asia and Latin America have adopted reforms aimed at speeding growth. These reforms include slashing inflation, privatizing industry and bringing budget deficits under control.
"We have the feeling that we know what are the good methods, the good recipes for this good cuisine," Michel Camdessus, the monetary fund's managing director, said in a news conference today. "We have pressed hard in this direction, and I was impressed that this now appears to be common wisdom."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michel Camdessus, left, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, speaking yesterday with Mohammed Berrada, center, the fund's convention chairman, and Lewis Preston, president of the World Bank, at the end of the annual meeting of the fund and the World Bank in Washington. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. D2)
 
Graph: "The Growth Is in the Developing World" shows the percentage of economic growth from '87-'92. (Source: International Monetary Fund) (pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; FORECASTS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN MANMOHAN SINGH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



798 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 7405 words

HEADLINE: Short Sales Outstanding Rise Again on Nasdaq

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Furthering a trend that has persisted throughout the year, the number of shares sold short and not yet covered of all over-the-counter stocks rose between mid-August and mid-September for the eighth straight month, the National Association of Securities Dealers said yesterday.
The latest monthly figures reflect trades that took place on the Nasdaq system reported as of Sept. 6 and settled as of Sept. 13. They are a widely watched gauge of investor sentiment, since they reflect the activities of a large contingent of professional sellers who specialize in ferreting out overvalued companies. 
 By borrowing the stocks of those companies and selling them at high prices, the investors are betting they will be able to buy the shares back on the cheap and keep the difference.
The mid-August through mid-September period was a difficult one for professional short-sellers, however, because Nasdaq's broad market averages moved higher, not lower.
"Despite the fact that some over-the-counter stocks had spectacular implosions, this was not a good month for short-sellers," said Steve Kibbey, a vice president at Centurion Capital in La Jolla, Calif.
Nevertheless, the market's lofty price levels, as well as continued nervousness about the economy and the Presidential election led to a 4 percent increase in outstanding short interest on Nasdaq, to 440.7 million shares, from 423.6 million in August.
Harry Strunk, an investment consultant in Palm Beach, Fla., said individual investors, and not professionals, were largely responsible for the rise last month.
"The professional short-sellers are being very cautious," he said. "They are not contributing to these numbers. In fact, they are only about 60 percent to 70 percent invested, which from those guys is pretty bullish."
Short interest in the more than 2,600 over-the-counter issues that trade on Nasdaq's National Market System amounted to 416.2 million shares, up from 399.8 million in the period of mid-July to mid-August.
Meanwhile, short interest in the 979 small-capitalization Nasdaq issues rose to 24.5 million shares, from 23.7 million in the previous month.
Among the issues showing big increases in short interest during the month was Gensia Pharmaceuticals Inc. Outstanding short positions in its stock increased more than 29 percent, to 2.2 million shares.
Those who shorted the issue then are smiling now, because earlier this week Gensia stock lost more than a third of its market value after the company said results of yearlong tests on a drug to be used in cardiac bypass surgery did not conclusively prove its effectiveness.
But those who continued to sell shares of Outback Steakhouse short are licking their wounds.
Short interest in Outback increased by 7 percent, despite the fact that the stock, which was trading around $32 a share in mid-August, has risen to more than $48 a share.

 	 	 	 	 	Largest Increases	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	09/15/92	08/14/92	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	Largest Increases	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	Medco Containmnt 	6,567,191	1,759,910	4,807,281	T	Sun Microsystems Inc	5,169,000	3,972,213	1,196,787	T	Tokos Med Cp Del 	3,514,949	2,386,785	1,128,164	T	Tseng Labs Inc 	2,335,134	1,476,539	 858,595	T	+Checkers Drive-In Rest	3,350,475	2,576,428	 774,047	T	Microsoft Cp	3,196,470	2,506,399	 690,071	T	Site Based Media Inc	 876,946	 243,729	 633,217		Xilinx Inc 	 739,780	 193,396	 546,384	T	Chipcom Cp 	 581,971	  39,846	 542,125	T	Somatogen Inc 	1,639,781	1,100,920	 538,861	T	Gensia Pharm Inc 	2,202,712	1,680,119	 522,593	T	Seagate Tech 	1,278,683	 759,707	 518,976	T	BMC Software Inc 	1,858,011	1,355,527	 502,484	T	Integra Fin Cp 	 713,419	 224,099	 489,320	T	Costco Wholesale Cp	1,884,792	1,401,551	 483,241	T	Retix 	 461,463	  9,309	 452,154	T	TPI Enterprises 	 820,386	 425,060	 395,326	T	Surgical Care Affil	2,856,659	2,473,391	 383,268	T	PDK Labs Inc 	 363,194	  4,570	 358,624	T	Natl Vision Assoc 	 884,769	 529,074	 355,695	T	York Research Cp 	4,007,769	3,656,901	 350,868	T	Tyson Foods Inc Cl A	3,924,068	3,589,349	 334,719	T	Artisoft Inc 	1,033,465	 699,141	 334,324	T	Magna Intl Cl A Vtg	4,324,246	4,012,976	 311,270	T	Altera Cp 	 415,142	 112,446	 302,696	T	
 	 	 	 	 	Largest Cover Ratios	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	09/15/92	Avg. Vol.	Days	Mkt	 	 	 	 	 	Largest Cover Ratios	 	 	 	 	Fastenal Co 	2,434,133	  25,354	  96	T	Healthcare Svcs Gp	1,504,140	  26,704	  56	T	Rouse Co 	2,987,259	  55,308	  54	T	Trimble Navigation	1,340,223	  26,728	  50	T	Interface Inc A 	1,275,118	  27,860	  46	T	Kentucky Central A	1,487,111	  36,272	  41	T	Aura Systems Inc 	3,114,086	  83,550	  37	T	Copytele Inc 	2,479,657	  71,789	  35	T	LDDS Comm Cl A 	2,401,963	  68,842	  35	T	Dibrell Brothers Inc	1,753,662	  51,169	  34	T	Summit Tech Inc 	2,903,049	  90,640	  32	T	Insituform No Amer A	 962,045	  32,425	  30	T	SGI International 	2,131,935	  73,925	  29		Westwood One Inc 	1,460,011	  49,835	  29	T	Great Amer Commun Co	 754,459	  27,420	  28	T	Mail Boxes Etc	1,775,790	  65,612	  27	T	Greenwich Pharm Inc	2,223,179	  86,235	  26	T	Sunrise Tech Inc 	 742,031	  28,131	  26	T	C.I.S. Tech Inc 	1,005,471	  40,364	  25	T	Concord Camera Cp 	1,264,343	  54,967	  23	T	Cytogen Cp 	2,087,746	  92,013	  23	T	Centex Telemanagemnt	2,617,780	 118,489	  22	T	Medical Marketing Gp	1,640,653	  73,148	  22	T	Videocart Inc 	2,838,047	 131,655	  22	T	XOMA Cp 	3,796,953	 174,263	  22	T	
 	 	 	 	 	Largest Decreases	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	09/15/92	08-14-92	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	Largest Decreases	 	 	 	 	Applied Materials 	 642,459	1,512,273	 -869,814	T	Staples Inc 	2,232,691	3,079,570	 -846,879	T	Picturetel Cp 	1,825,761	2,538,551	 -712,790	T	XOMA Cp 	3,796,953	4,430,480	 -633,527	T	Michael Foods Inc 	1,753,370	2,369,746	 -616,376	T	WPP Gp ADR 	1,547,890	2,134,227	 -586,337	T	Comcast Cp A 	1,003,223	1,527,501	 -524,278	T	+Lone Star Steakhouse	1,303,686	1,826,132	 -522,446	T	Oracle Systems Cp 	1,001,656	1,504,528	 -502,872	T	McCaw Cellular A 	 906,792	1,360,433	 -453,641	T	Columbia Hospital Cp	 124,816	 532,760	 -407,944	T	Borland Intl Inc 	3,505,388	3,890,353	 -384,965	T	Calgene Inc 	 359,850	 742,467	 -382,617	T	Adobe Systems Inc 	5,417,963	5,795,392	 -377,429	T	Synergen Inc 	 933,180	1,294,763	 -361,583	T	Scimed Life Sys Inc	2,698,807	2,996,711	 -297,904	T	50-Off Stores Inc 	1,991,150	2,285,615	 -294,465	T	Compression Lab Inc	3,358,170	3,651,358	 -293,188	T	Good Guys Inc the 	 133,517	 414,553	 -281,036	T	Input Output Inc 	  37,578	 299,326	 -261,748	T	Intl Cablecasting 	1,053,746	1,307,033	 -253,287	T	Autodesk Inc 	 519,074	 769,414	 -250,340	T	Centocor Inc 	4,332,205	4,577,086	 -244,881	T	Datascope Cp 	 801,722	1,034,824	 -233,102	T	Amgen 	2,253,952	2,485,984	 -232,032	T	
 	 	 	 	 	Largest Positions	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	09/15/92	08/14/92	Change	 	 	 	 	 	 	Largest Positions	 	 	 	 	Medco Containmnt 	6,567,191	1,759,910	4,807,281	T	Midlantic Cp 	5,724,432	5,934,724	 -210,292	T	Cisco Sys Inc 	5,440,013	5,380,375	  59,638	T	Adobe Systems Inc 	5,417,963	5,795,392	 -377,429	T	Sun Microsystems Inc	5,169,000	3,972,213	1,196,787	T	Tele Commun Inc A 	5,071,605	5,062,300	  9,305	T	Centocor Inc 	4,332,205	4,577,086	 -244,881	T	Magna Intl Cl A Vtg	4,324,246	4,012,976	 311,270	T	York Research Cp 	4,007,769	3,656,901	 350,868	T	Tyson Foods Inc Cl A	3,924,068	3,589,349	 334,719	T	XOMA Cp 	3,796,953	4,430,480	 -633,527	T	Amer Power Convers	3,697,649	3,611,149	  86,500	T	Dell Computer Cp 	3,654,356	3,667,329	 -12,973	T	Tokos Med Cp Del 	3,514,949	2,386,785	1,128,164	T	Borland Intl Inc 	3,505,388	3,890,353	 -384,965	T	Comp USA Inc 	3,448,014	3,182,942	 265,072	T	Comcast Cp Cl A Spcl	3,405,731	3,398,201	  7,530	T	Compression Lab Inc	3,358,170	3,651,358	 -293,188	T	Checkers Drive-In Rest	3,350,475	2,576,428	 774,047	T	Microsoft Cp 	3,196,470	2,506,399	 690,071	T	Electronic Arts Inc	3,147,416	3,328,596	 -181,180	T	Aura Systems Inc 	3,114,086	3,266,549	 -152,463	T	Quantum Cp 	3,103,964	2,845,447	 258,517	T	Rouse Co 	2,987,259	3,058,365	 -71,106	T	Summit Tech Inc 	2,903,049	2,842,138	  60,911	T	
 	 	 	Nasdaq	 	 	 	 	 	Security Name	09/15/92	08/14/92	 	 	 	National Market	 	 		 	 	50-Off Stores Inc 	1,991,150	2,285,615	ADAC Laboratories 	  77,070	  14,642	Adesa Corp 	  29,330	  12,715	Advanta Cl-A 	1,198,655	1,229,929	Advanta Cl-B 	 746,252	 666,844	AES Cp (The) 	 600,240	 709,374	Albank Finl Cp 	  25,394	  5,281	ASK Computer Sys 	 185,052	 139,220	AST Research Inc 	2,126,657	2,045,302	Atrix Labs Inc 	  93,422	 119,730	AW Brands Inc 	  63,453	 103,346	Acclaim Entertainmnt	 289,239	  91,476	Adaptec Inc 	 517,715	 454,101	Addington Resources	  34,175	  12,379	Adobe Systems Inc 	5,417,963	5,795,392	Adv Tech Labs 	 190,996	  71,283	Advan Interventional	 205,737	 225,395	Advanced Polymer Sys	 308,701	 229,070	Advanced Telecommun	 427,630	 291,465	Advanced Tissue Sci	 345,292	 357,751	Advantage Promo Tech	 340,825	 234,029	Aldus Cp 	 690,560	 611,979	Alexander Baldwin 	  95,365	  48,046	Alias Research Inc	 489,943	 486,292	Alkermes Inc 	 176,892	 132,039	All Amer Semi Wts B	  54,765	30,390	All Amer Semiconduct	  58,101	  92,574	Alliance Pharm Cp 	1,496,761	1,337,594	Alteon Inc 	 405,529	 335,850	Altera Cp 	 415,142	 112,446	Amer Bankers Ins Gp	  40,760	  62,130	Amer Biogenetic Cl A	 273,290	 254,778	Amer Dental Laser 	 334,424	 368,050	Amer Film Tech Inc	 377,892	 379,230	Amer Power Convers	3,697,649	3,611,149	Amer Res Hldgs Cp 	  60,219	N.L.	Amer Software Inc A	 125,504	42,184	America Online Inc	  58,582	  22,139	Amgen 	2,253,952	2,485,984	Ampex Inc Cl-A 	 121,417	  2,761	Amtech Cp 	1,124,226	1,073,844	Amylin Pharma Inc 	 431,039	 258,851	Andros Inc 	22,990	  53,544	Apple Computer Inc	1,334,004	1,203,532	Applebee's Intl Inc	 205,700	 219,668	Applied Bioscience	  70,086	  51,452	Applied Immune Sci	 252,377	 271,649	Applied Materials 	 642,459	1,512,273	Archive Cp 	  70,920	  25,013	Arctco Inc 	  32,940	  12,959	Arrow Intl Inc 	  58,634	  22,535	Artisoft Inc 	1,033,465	 699,141	Atlantic Se Airlines	  48,230	  24,850	Au Bon Pain Cl A 	1,158,597	1,119,017	Aura Systems Inc 	3,114,086	3,266,549	Autodesk Inc 	 519,074	 769,414	Aztar Cp 	  44,027	  19,897	BBT Finl Cp 	 813,113	 783,775	Bisys Gp the 	  8,173	  27,888	BLOC Dev Cp	 273,276	 253,393	BMC Software Inc 	1,858,011	1,355,527	Babbage's Inc 	 562,940	 536,941	Bachman Info Sys Inc	  1,780	  80,614	Back Bay Restaurant	 102,095	  75,720	Ballard Medical Prod	 151,718	 179,957	Bank South Cp 	 280,081	 222,319	Banyan Systems Inc	 157,035	  69,614	Bassett Furniture 	 179,815	 214,978	Baybanks Inc 	 145,318	 228,868	Beauticontrol Cosmet	 106,315	 131,274	Bel Fuse Inc 	  77,838	  59,298	Bell Sports Cp 	 170,293	  61,055	Ben & Jerry's Cl A	 660,910	 608,548	Berkley W R Cp 	  40,139	  12,389	Bertucci's Inc 	 397,825	 436,039	Betz Labs Inc 	 251,582	 253,038	Bindley Wstn Ind 	  10,785	  27,509	Bio Tech Gen Cp 	 137,821	 160,424	Biochem Pharm Inc 	  87,125	 273,645	Biogen Inc 	1,025,344	1,196,529	Biomagnetic Tech Inc	  87,838	  67,698	Biomet Inc 	 855,941	 897,572	Bioplasty Inc 	 218,670	 226,854	Birtcher Med Sys Inc	 276,175	 245,636	Boatmen's Bancshares	1,376,572	1,386,495	Boole Babbage Inc 	  24,300	  2,042	Borland Intl Inc 	3,505,388	3,890,353	Boston Tech Inc 	 672,834	 669,567	Brand Cos Inc the 	 135,902	  66,002	Broderbund Software	 376,731	 455,278	Brooktree Cp 	 100,678	  45,934	Bruno's Inc 	1,479,919	1,491,109	Buffets Inc 	2,398,635	2,327,877	Burnup & Sims Inc	 554,742	 554,135	CBL Medical Inc 	  26,925	  70,393	CCB Fin Cp 	  84,829	  58,428	CCC Franchising Cp	 564,548	 294,656	Cenit Bncp Inc 	  784	  18,834	C.I.S. Tech Inc	1,005,471	1,045,397	Cabot Medical Cp 	 663,866	 670,333	Cal Microwave Inc 	  75,109	  95,156	Calgene Inc 	 359,850	 742,467	Cambex Cp 	 311,471	 311,612	Cambridge Biotech Cp	 361,642	 362,421	Cambridge Neurosci	  71,154	  88,504	Canandaigua Wine A	 213,653	 288,939	Candela Laser Cp 	  84,125	 144,849	Cardinal Distr 	2,185,876	1,998,920	Casey's Gen Stores	 251,407	 210,698	Cell Com Puerto Rico	  69,823	  91,717	Cellular Comm Cl A	 192,991	 235,720	Cellular Inc 	 550,603	 682,819	Celtrix Pharmaceut	  27,054	  7,053	Centerbank 	  84,983	 180,903	Centex Telemanagemnt	2,617,780	2,483,336	Centocor Inc 	4,332,205	4,577,086	Central Fidelity Bks	  49,862	  24,927	Central Jersey Bncp	  41,627	 114,169	Century Medicorp Inc	 337,490	 410,311	Charming Shoppes Inc	 282,551	 411,684	Charter Golf Inc	 228,301	 194,706	Charter One Finl Inc	 405,929	 384,325	Checkers Drive-In Rest	3,350,475	2,576,428	Checkpoint Sys Inc	 224,703	 258,063	Chemdesign Cp 	  68,608	  50,667	Chipcom Cp 	 581,971	  39,846	Chips & Tech Inc	 220,354	 213,580	Chiron Cp 	1,045,381	1,169,680	Cincinnati Financial	 122,444	 165,484	Cincinnati Microwave	  83,364	 107,692	Cintas Cp 	 208,216	 189,356	Circon Cp 	 623,773	 458,344	Cirrus Logic Inc 	 396,198	 211,111	Cisco Sys Inc 	5,440,013	5,380,375	Clearly Canadian Bev	1,927,155	1,963,605	Cliffs Drilling Co	 297,003	 252,337	Cognex Cp 	 113,368	 130,071	Coherent Inc 	  63,677	  44,850	Collagen Cp 	 777,657	 659,698	Columbia Hospital Cp	 124,816	 532,760	Comcast Cp A 	1,003,223	1,527,501	Comcast Cp Cl A Spcl	3,405,731	3,398,201	Commerce Clearing A	 141,474	  40,731	Commun Entert Cl A	  65	  48,683	Comp USA Inc 	3,448,014	3,182,942	Compression Lab Inc	3,358,170	3,651,358	Comptronix Cp 	 333,983	 286,787	Computer Ntwk Tech	  23,769	  47,928	Computer Prod Inc 	 212,465	 312,973	Concord Camera Cp 	1,264,343	1,255,388	Cons Papers Inc 	 287,522	 266,326	Consilium Inc 	 220,024	 202,009	Control Data Sys Inc	  60,082	  0	Cooker Restaurant Cp	 126,897	  96,673	Copytele Inc 	2,479,657	2,378,325	Cordis Cp 	  76,091	  59,000	Corestates Fin Cp 	 277,265	 500,622	Corrections Cp Amer	 324,481	 326,909	Costar Cp 	  21,756	  4,000	Costco Wholesale Cp	1,884,792	1,401,551	Cott Cp 	  41,148	  60,909	Coventry Cp 	 150,230	 185,281	Cracker Barrel Old	1,558,704	1,377,179	Cragin Finl Cp 	  32,787	  74,134	Cray Comp Cp 	 488,750	 569,754	Crestar Finl Cp 	  84,785	  66,142	Crop Genetic Intl Cp	 115,403	 168,815	Crown Resources Cp	 247,863	 245,747	Cryomedical Sci 	1,409,128	1,233,488	Curative Tech Inc 	 345,770	 320,300	Cygnus Therapeutic	 267,386	 264,854	Cytogen Cp 	2,087,746	2,066,810	Cytrx Cp 	 152,125	 206,433	D & N Fin Cp 	 155,918	 124,900	DNA Plant Tech Cp 	1,008,682	1,097,459	DSC Commun Cp 	 617,770	 559,942	Danek Gp Inc 	 910,951	 758,887	Datascope Cp 	 801,722	1,034,824	Dell Computer Cp 	3,654,356	3,667,329	Deprenyl Research 	 516,678	 461,518	Designs Inc 	  77,285	  23,265	Devlieg Bullard Inc	  12,638	  42,038	Dibrell Brothers Inc	1,753,662	1,749,564	Digital Microwave Cp	 308,357	 303,936	Digital Prods Cp 	 339,921	 365,204	Digital Sound Cp 	  22,498	  1,929	Dollar General Cp 	 365,121	 426,760	Dominion Bkshs 	 277,369	 226,168	Dreyer's Grand Ice	 718,338	 701,968	Drug Emporium 	 382,386	 437,394	ECI Telecom Ltd 	  28,247	 123,173	ERO Inc 	  5,234	  59,709	Eagle Hardware & Gdn	 257,653	  62,127	Easel Cp 	  3,900	  24,077	Ecogen Inc 	 436,986	 432,114	Egghead Inc 	 167,016	 243,356	El Paso Electric Co	 770,933	 814,216	Electric Gas Tech 	  90,564	  27,215	Electromagnetic Sci	  29,912	  2,226	Electronic Arts Inc	3,147,416	3,328,596	Emisphere Tech Inc	 277,329	 215,780	Empi Inc 	  60,534	  41,704	Enclean Inc 	  24,371	  79,690	Envoy Cp 	 232,094	  63,111	Enzon Inc 	 424,780	 409,328	Everex Systems Inc	 228,362	 178,880	Exabyte Cp 	 135,252	 212,393	Executive Telecard	 471,555	 476,090	Express Scripts A 	  261	  20,121	F&C Intl Inc 	  91,100	 135,477	FHP Intl Cp 	 141,599	 167,574	Fiserv Inc 	  42,103	  62,736	Fastenal Co 	2,434,133	2,356,592	Ferrofluidics Cp 	  55,115	  21,228	Fifth Third Bncp 	 550,536	 398,486	Filene's Basement Cp	 469,264	 361,277	Filenet Cp 	 279,978	 217,594	Finish Line Cl A 	  25,749	  3,139	First Commerce Cp La	 335,167	 334,522	First Cons Fin Cp 	 105,988	  61,912	First Hawaiian Inc	 148,388	  98,586	First Saving Bk FSB	  35,612	  8,976	First Team Sports 	 264,289	 263,977	First Tenn Natl Cp	 584,593	 659,592	Food Lion Inc Cl A	 556,375	 689,996	Food Lion Inc Cl B	 802,047	 909,920	Foremost Cp of Amer	49,290	  140	Forest Oil Cp 	1,081,457	 937,121	Forschner Group the	  2,230	  54,376	Frame Tech Cp 	 403,828	 198,159	Fulton Financial Cp	  3,868	  23,891	Galileo Electro Opt	  28,859	  9,173	Gantos Inc 	 207,896	 217,599	Gates/FA Distributin	  9,471	  49,772	Genetics Inst Dep Sh	 562,105	 574,843	Gensia Pharm Inc 	2,202,712	1,680,119	Gentex Cp 	 947,300	 824,195	Genzyme Cp 	1,640,821	1,775,474	Gibson Greetings Inc	 267,145	 146,020	Giddings Lewis Inc	1,150,686	 942,636	Glycomed Inc 	 118,638	  96,400	Good Guys Inc the 	 133,517	 414,553	Goody's Family Cloth	 129,911	  88,171	Goulds Pumps Inc 	  83,493	 154,369	Grand Casinos Inc 	1,087,100	 993,261	Granite Construction	 118,443	 140,687	Grant Tensor Geophys	 275,064	 308,186	Great Amer Commun Co	 754,459	 761,827	Great Amer Rec Inc	  38,952	 105,450	Great Lakes Bncp 	  56,079	  12,522	Greenwich Pharm Inc	2,223,179	2,270,065	Groundwater Tech Inc	 931,835	 871,450	Guest Supply Inc 	  29,988	  49,924	Harris & Harris Gp	  400	  18,081	Hawthorne Financial	 227,050	 227,300	Health Images Inc 	 363,518	 365,367	Healthcare Compare	1,411,718	1,231,248	Healthcare Imaging	  19,189	  65,369	Healthcare Svcs Gp	1,504,140	1,695,489	Healthdyne Inc 	1,012,309	1,052,142	Healthinfusion Inc	 552,614	 437,424	Heart Tech Inc 	 341,568	 362,760	Hechinger Co Cl A 	 420,251	 445,902	Heekin Can Inc 	  23,556	  44,633	Helen of Troy Cp 	  80,619	  98,549	Herbalife Intl Inc	 683,935	 612,068	Herley Inds Inc 	  36,771	 115,578	Homedco Gp Inc 	 254,632	 246,845	Horizon Gold Cp 	  45,000	N.L.	Howard Svgs Bank NJ	1,004,192	 939,939	Hutchinson Tech Inc	 167,282	 149,455	ICOS Cp 	 746,461	 717,118	Idexx Labs Inc 	 109,042	  84,359	IHOP Cp 	 800,684	 824,748	IMRS Inc 	  77,486	  43,563	INB Fin Cp 	  4,684	  68,273	Interso L V 	  71,323	  20,408	Imatron Inc 	 162,888	 102,176	Immune Response Cp	2,121,034	1,997,356	Immunex Cp 	2,003,793	1,946,354	Immunomedics Inc 	 468,498	 458,905	Imperial Bancorp 	 512,566	 524,880	Imperial Credit Inds	 112,536	  15,779	Infinity Broadcast A	  47,474	  6,205	Info Resources Inc	 268,585	 304,153	Informix Cp 	 682,981	 662,671	Infrasonics Inc 	  16,554	  57,185	Input Output Inc 	  37,578	 299,326	Ins Auto Auctions 	 103,797	  20,164	Insituform No Amer A	 962,045	 883,330	Integra Fin Cp 	 713,419	 224,099	Integrated Devic Tec	 569,398	 567,637	Integrated Hlth Svcs	  48,358	  16,091	Integrated Waste Svc	 406,506	 416,159	Intel Cp 	1,516,575	1,591,021	Intelligent Elec 	 508,437	 609,511	Interactive Network	 505,875	 467,727	Interface Inc A 	1,275,118	1,275,971	Intergraph Cp 	 995,018	1,017,377	Interneuron Pharm 	 292,655	 226,986	Intervoice Inc 	 315,720	 327,867	Intl Cablecasting 	1,053,746	1,307,033	Intl Dairy Queen A	 244,725	 276,600	Intl Microelectronic	  2,471	  51,016	Intl Totalizator Sys	  60,469	  31,604	Invacare Cp 	  47,126	  78,354	Isis Pharm Inc 	 276,279	 263,926	JB Hunt Trans Svcs	 239,241	 254,224	J Baker Inc 	1,620,093	1,427,865	Jean Philippe Frag	  96,052	 113,358	Jennifer Convertible	  31,122	  14,724	Jones Intrcable A 	 375,970	 381,773	KLA Instruments 	 284,067	 262,733	Kaman Cp A NV 	  25,013	  43,005	Kelley Oil Cp 	 251,886	 171,197	Kelly Services Cl A	 214,542	 218,090	Kentucky Central A	1,487,111	1,589,507	Kirschner Medical Cp	 137,427	 181,337	Knowledgeware Inc 	 140,063	 180,394	Komag Inc 	  91,334	 109,044	Kulicke & Soffa 	  23,384	  47,815	Kushner Locke Co 	  2,389	  18,849	LDDS Comm Cl A 	2,401,963	2,302,262	LM Ericsson Tel ADR	2,054,638	2,285,006	LTX Cp 	  39,465	  64,975	La Petite Academy 	  92,474	  6,239	Lam Research Cp 	 178,756	 150,320	Lance Inc 	  86,389	  63,882	Landmark Graphic Cp	 166,096	 140,341	Lannet Data Comm Ord	 170,943	 138,650	Lasermaster Tech Inc	 172,824	 240,840	Learning Co (The) 	 324,598	 253,073	Lechters Inc 	 589,586	 661,730	Legent Cp 	 970,909	1,073,953	Lep Gp ADR 	 173,198	 190,248	Liberty Media A 	  47,985	 278,904	Liberty Media Cp Pfd	  1,536	  21,720	Life Technologies 	50,917	  33,384	Lifecore Biomedical	 781,637	 655,048	LIN Broadcasting Cp	 356,949	 396,750	Lincoln Foodsvc Prod	  4,008	  31,000	Lindsay Manfacturing	  48,432	  23,992	Linear Technology Cp	 202,143	 107,040	Liposome Co Inc 	 621,587	 629,313	Liposome Tech Inc 	 273,058	 249,440	Liuski Intl Inc 	  37,649	  11,855	Loewen Group Inc 	 432,611	 439,285	Lone Star Steakhouse	1,303,686	1,826,132	Longhorn Steaks Inc	 300,336	 277,564	Lotus Development Cp	1,959,090	1,876,432	MCI Comm Cp 	1,200,172	 971,289	MGI Pharma Inc 	  66,307	  37,368	MS Carriers Inc 	  2,730	  22,086	Macmillan Bloedel 	2,374,030	2,399,859	Magna Group Inc 	  8,283	 107,068	Magna Intl Cl A Vtg	4,324,246	4,012,976	Mail Boxes Etc 	1,775,790	1,676,829	Manitowoc Co Inc 	  20,324	  38,788	Marcam Cp 	 413,453	 485,532	Marine Drilling Co	 175,472	 289,737	Masco Inds 	 115,636	 164,029	Matrix Service Co 	  77,403	  98,499	Matthews Studio Equi	  26,649	  8,664	Maxicare Hlth New 	 468,372	 478,322	Maxtor Cp 	 332,310	 530,087	McCaw Cellular A 	 906,792	1,360,433	Meadowbrook Reh Cl-A	  0	  29,719	Medaphis Cp 	  73,659	  24,158	Medarex Inc 	  75,950	  19,935	Medco Containmnt 	6,567,191	1,759,910	Medical Action Inds	  14,749	  36,995	Medical Imaging 	 290,963	 301,381	Medical Marketing Gp	1,640,653	1,387,092	Medical Tech Sys Inc	  38,423	  13,080	Medicine Shoppe Intl	1,581,310	1,595,325	Medicis Pharm Cl A	 289,152	 334,510	Medicis Pharma Wt B	  65,845	  1,815	Medimmune Inc 	 268,732	 278,002	Memorex Telex NV ADR	  88,521	 134,375	Mentor Cp the 	 910,576	 910,001	Mentor Graphics Cp	 951,455	 868,411	Mercantile Bkshs Cp	  49,414	  7,251	Mercantile Bncpn Inc	 102,068	 131,748	Meridian Bncp Inc 	  23,285	  66,273	Meris Labs Inc 	 186,866	 228,860	Merisel Inc 	 527,207	 502,812	Meritor Savings Bank	 721,019	 728,771	Mesa Airlines Inc 	  83,789	 160,851	Methanex Cp 	  33,360	  16,926	Miami Subs Cp 	 420,078	 469,377	Michael Foods Inc 	1,753,370	2,369,746	Michaels Stores Inc	1,030,369	 876,418	Michigan Natl Cp 	 124,519	 150,711	Micro Healthsys Inc	 583,732	 587,037	Microprose Inc 	 115,819	  88,908	Microsoft Cp 	3,196,470	2,506,399	Mid Atlantic Medical	 353,893	 359,801	Midlantic Cp 	5,724,432	5,934,724	Miller Herman Inc 	 238,325	 257,823	Millicom Inc 	 330,857	 356,761	Mobile Telecomm Tech	2,227,910	2,116,954	Molex Inc 	 406,374	 375,936	Molex Inc Cl A 	  20,694	  45,141	Mosinee Paper Cp 	  21,123	  38,886	Multimedia Inc 	 255,856	 252,053	Mylex Cp 	 120,447	 151,173	NAC Re Cp 	  97,560	 116,295	NEC Cp ADR 	9,137	  33,557	NESB Cp 	 123,431	  97,737	Nycal Cp 	  14,770	  46,236	Nam Tai Electronics	 204,770	 209,389	Natl Vision Assoc 	 884,769	 529,074	Natural Wonders 	 179,508	  82,481	Nature's Bounty Inc	  42,839	  26,092	Nellcor Inc 	  42,382	  77,545	Neorx Cp 	 953,781	 867,404	NetFRAME Systems 	 125,606	  88,914	Network General Cp	 374,719	 356,533	Network Systems Cp	 787,123	 802,252	Neutrogena Cp 	 374,023	 397,518	Noble Drilling Cp 	  4,459	  26,067	Noel Group Inc 	  9,553	  35,686	Nordstrom Inc 	2,837,058	2,553,882	North Star Universal	 275,738	 427,749	Northeast Bncp 	 503,005	 291,777	Northern Tr Cp 	  95,858	  26,952	Novell Inc 	2,028,406	1,862,828	Novellus Systems Inc	 538,451	 417,417	Noven Pharmaceutical	 148,100	 123,308	Nu-West Inds Inc 	 378,821	 379,306	Nucorp Inc Delaware	  2,706	 181,487	Nview Cp 	  41,486	  67,995	Nycor Inc 	  1,344	  19,207	Nycor Inc Cl A 	  2,871	  21,548	Octel Commun Cp 	 326,168	 313,419	Ohio Casualty Cp 	  67,018	  92,406	Old Stone Cp 	 462,420	 488,823	Oracle Systems Cp 	1,001,656	1,504,528	Oshkosh B Gosh Cl A	 291,304	 328,718	Outback Steakhouse	1,416,131	1,315,628	PCA Intl Inc 	  38,556	  8,616	PDK Labs Inc 	 363,194	  4,570	PDK Labs Wts B 97 	  31,000	  0	PDK Labs Wts C 97 	  23,981	  0	Platinum Tech 	 333,725	 285,400	Pac Rim Hldg Cp 	 203,845	 205,625	Paccar Inc 	 140,873	  82,746	Pacific Dunlop ADR	 299,176	 417,475	Pacificare Hlth Cl A	 377,793	 342,258	Parametric Tech Cp	1,254,183	1,045,254	Pentair Inc 	 542,186	 549,864	Pentech Intl Inc 	 139,221	  98,363	Penwest Ltd 	 235,165	 245,715	Peoples Bk Bridge 	  10,142	  28,901	Peoples Heri Fin Gp	 446,282	 430,407	Perfumania Inc 	 283,983	 273,890	Perrigo Company 	 196,525	 144,297	Perseptive Biosys 	  49,618	  21,053	Pharmacy Mgmt Svc 	 513,322	 459,829	Phoenix Re Cp 	  72,750	  44,571	Phycor Inc 	 266,931	 285,932	Picturetel Cp 	1,825,761	2,538,551	Pinkerton's Inc 	 274,597	 272,620	Pioneer Hi Bred Intl	 133,006	 111,121	Pioneer Std Elct 	 342,254	 169,286	Polymedica Inds Inc	  29,918	  0	Ponder Inds Inc 	 167,190	  90,069	Possis Cp 	 316,655	 317,995	Presidential Life Cp	 419,299	 466,527	Presstek Inc 	 679,603	 683,946	Price Co the 	1,650,963	1,789,417	Prima Energy Cp 	  17,927	  876	Production Oper 	 676,548	 555,908	Progress Fin Cp 	  23,458	  69,042	Puget Sound Bncp 	  19,506	  68,773	Pure Tech Intl 	 155,367	  68,713	Puritan Bennett Cp	1,069,945	 922,707	Pyramid Technology	 198,292	 228,364	Qualcomm Inc 	 748,585	 762,990	QVC Network Inc 	 257,216	 164,385	Quadra Logic Tech 	  898	  47,100	Quadrex Cp 	 360,926	 194,609	Qual Med Inc 	  52,573	  84,299	Quality Food Centers	 146,749	 115,862	Quantum Cp 	3,103,964	2,845,447	Quarterdeck Office	  92,008	  48,753	Quidel Cp	  47,161	  65,158	Quiksilver Inc 	 187,774	 205,577	RPM Inc	 936,310	 828,455	Radiation Care Inc	 247,006	 255,705	Radius Inc 	  4,454	  28,754	Rally's Inc 	1,657,197	1,445,077	Ratners Gp ADR 	 153,921	 186,173	Read-Rite Cp 	 617,985	 323,135	Recoton Cp 	 336,258	 191,256	Regal Comm Cp 	  60,070	  4,131	Rentrak Cp 	 258,759	 339,476	Repap Enterprises Cp	 254,856	 212,656	Repossession Auction	  40,925	  16,075	Republic Sav Fin Cp	  1,724	  20,854	Republic Waste Inds	 144,391	 107,813	Research Industries	 659,200	 724,479	Restor Inds Inc Wts	  23,998	  200	Retix 	 461,463	  9,309	Reuters Hldg ADR	2,102,263	1,839,120	Ribi Immunochem	 448,613	 458,713	Riggs Natl Cp the 	 304,942	 325,167	Roadway Services Inc	 237,665	 103,060	Roberts Pharm Cp 	 527,002	 540,295	Rochester Comm Sav	  37,511	  9,334	Rose's Stores Inc 	 299,625	 292,928	Ross Cosmetics Dist	 838,495	 846,600	Ross Stores Inc 	  14,352	 121,228	Rotech Medical Cp 	  41,400	  68,335	Rouse Co 	2,987,259	3,058,365	Ryan's Family Steak	 100,458	  65,661	Safeco Cp 	 284,435	 373,446	Sanborn Inc 	  9,141	  97,356	Sanborn Wts A	  94,041	  42,761	SCI Systems Inc 	 561,843	 520,035	Steri's Cp 	 177,487	  32,151	Savannah Foods Inds	 784,890	 790,717	Schuler Homes Inc 	 369,158	 395,580	SciClone Pharma Inc	 209,007	 211,625	Scimed Life Sys Inc	2,698,807	2,996,711	Scitex Cp 	 532,198	 420,449	Score Board Inc the	1,078,489	1,091,955	Scotts Co Cl-A 	 116,703	 153,148	Seagate Tech 	1,278,683	 759,707	Seibels Bruce Group	 102,462	  250	Sequent Computer Sys	 340,850	 454,992	Sequoia Sys Inc 	1,102,710	1,113,319	Sheffield Inds Inc	  71,582	  27,227	Shorewood Pkging Cp	  75,333	 112,582	Sierra On Line Inc	 508,375	 568,929	Sierra Tucson Cos 	  3,814	  26,657	Silicon Valley Bncsh	 409,423	 397,669	Siskon Gold Cp Cl-A	  4,906	  30,846	Small's Oilfield 	  850	  40,187	Smithfield Foods Inc	 116,916	  37,859	Software Etc. Stores	  17,951	  62,883	Software Publishing	 180,322	 142,837	Software Spectrum 	  59,411	  43,121	Software Toolwks Inc	 238,789	 245,874	Somanetics Cp Wts B	  71	  23,237	Somatogen Inc 	1,639,781	1,100,920	Sonic Cp 	 627,374	 680,187	Sonoco Products Co	  20,606	  46,116	Southtrust Cp 	 314,930	 246,685	Sovereign Bancorp 	 213,141	 192,904	Spartan Motors Inc	 244,502	 144,833	Spectranetics Cp the	 295,871	 265,306	Spectrum Info Tech	 331,817	 294,306	Spiegel Inc A NV 	 113,408	 165,251	St Jude Medical Inc	 888,290	 598,450	St Paul Bancorp Inc	  50,182	  12,575	Stac Electronics 	 295,430	 114,053	Staff Builder Del 	  33,584	  16,447	Standard Microsystem	 159,307	  72,740	Staples Inc 	2,232,691	3,079,570	Star Banc Cp 	  80,634	  21,337	Star States Cp 	 179,492	 252,709	Starbucks Cp 	 360,425	 412,136	State Street Boston	 979,631	 792,176	Stewart Stevenson 	 121,273	 168,190	Stratacom Inc 	  40,247	  9,415	Structural Dynamics	1,958,405	1,766,704	Stryker Cp 	 888,510	 761,558	Summit Tech Inc 	2,903,049	2,842,138	Sun Microsystems Inc	5,169,000	3,972,213	Sun Television & App	 117,123	  76,924	Sungard Data Systems	 578,303	 501,854	Sunrise Tech Inc 	 742,031	 690,787	Supercuts Inc 	  11,504	  55,312	Surgical Care Affil	2,856,659	2,473,391	Surgical Laser Tech	 291,409	 296,688	Sybase Inc 	 726,554	 569,574	Symantec Cp 	 294,332	 345,271	Synergen Inc 	 933,180	1,294,763	Synetic Inc 	 248,471	 228,358	Synopsys Inc 	 355,308	 370,202	Synoptics Commun Inc	 767,343	 647,432	Syquest Tech Inc 	 358,575	 185,909	System Software 	 326,770	 503,434	Systemed Inc 	 486,633	 518,838	TBC Cp 	  6,156	  42,151	TCA Cable TV Inc 	 217,734	 201,948	T Cell Sciences Inc	 272,391	 282,694	TPI Enterprises	 820,386	 425,060	TRM Copy Ctrs Cp 	  61,827	  11,781	T Rowe Price Assoc	  22,872	  50,088	TSI Cp 	 328,266	 176,438	TW Holdings Inc 	1,400,435	1,464,673	Takecare Inc 	 234,543	 283,056	Tandon Cp 	 146,290	  73,107	Target Therapeutics	 122,530	  87,672	Tech Data Cp 	  40,432	  70,425	Tele Commun Inc A 	5,071,605	5,062,300	Teledata Commun Ord	  421	  31,054	Telxon Cp 	 717,351	 476,972	Teva Pharm Ind ADR	 740,154	 651,114	The Holson Burnes Gp	46,933	  21,391	The Krystal Co 	  61,367	  30,000	Theratech Inc 	  28,340	  5,935	Tigera Group Inc 	  24,811	  70,871	Tokos Med Cp Del 	3,514,949	2,386,785	Topps Co Inc the 	 573,810	 525,775	Transnet Cp 	  58,113	  12,213	Trimble Navigation	1,340,223	1,364,790	Trimedyne Inc 	 460,374	 387,283	Trust Co Bncp the 	 149,648	 169,262	Tseng Labs Inc 	2,335,134	1,476,539	Tuboscope Vetco Intl	  53,182	  32,545	Tyson Foods Inc Cl A	3,924,068	3,589,349	UNR Inds Inc 	 150,046	 207,450	US Bancorp Oregon 	 249,357	 366,382	US Facilities Cp 	 111,943	  86,400	US Healthcare Inc 	1,796,731	2,006,622	US Long Distance Cp	  67,935	  2,504	US Robotics Inc 	  77,301	  24,623	UST Cp 	 149,059	 196,197	Unigene Labs Inc 	 242,554	 138,867	Unilab Cp 	 226,376	 235,137	Union Bk 	 278,545	 266,192	United Gaming Inc 	 154,320	  79,657	United Ins Cos Inc	  42,874	 201,184	United N M Fin Cp 	 155,782	 181,893	United Wisconsin Svc	  19,252	  55,671	Unitrin Inc 	  85,026	 113,039	Utah Medical Inc	  45,088	  28,607	VLSI Tech Inc 	 226,113	 154,744	Valence Tech Inc 	 467,503	 327,068	Valley Bncp Wis 	  5,914	  31,052	Valley National Cp	 185,013	 222,442	Value Health Inc 	 210,729	 206,757	Vanguard Cellular A	 394,987	 430,924	Vans Inc 	 119,485	  44,883	Ventritex Inc 	 322,193	 336,431	Verifone Inc 	 460,506	 428,566	Vertex Pharmaceutic	 119,190	  97,288	Vestar Inc 	 505,140	 535,026	Veterinary Ctrs 	  25,350	  110	Vicor Cp 	 832,199	 832,257	Vicorp Resta 	 132,799	 112,778	Video Lottery Tech	 924,637	 839,848	Videocart Inc 	2,838,047	2,647,311	Videotelecom Cp 	  96,659	  74,494	Vie de France Cp 	  3,916	 143,001	Viewlogic Systems 	  78,546	  9,680	Viking Office Prods	  3,409	  95,546	Viratek Inc 	 333,071	 348,975	Volvo Ab Cl B ADR 	  33,214	  16,956	WPP Gp ADR 	1,547,890	2,134,227	Walker Interactive	 153,662	 247,311	Washington Mut Sv Bk	1,848,067	1,629,101	Wellfleet Commun Inc	1,580,579	1,471,215	Werner Enterprises	  44,305	  25,587	West One Bancorp 	 243,704	 262,383	Western Publishing	  31,362	  56,359	Westwood One Inc 	1,460,011	1,190,959	Wet Seal Inc Cl A 	  13,610	  40,267	Wetterau Inc 	 401,994	 395,053	Willamette Inds Inc	 282,012	 267,053	William Sonoma Inc	  99,899	 116,766	Wolf Financial Gp 	  77,438	38,698	Worthington Inds Inc	 151,207	 104,191	XOMA Cp 	3,796,953	4,430,480	Xilinx Inc 	 739,780	 193,396	Xircom Inc 	  23,133	  80,655	Yellow Freight Del	1,114,489	 889,004	York Research Cp 	4,007,769	3,656,901	Zenith Labs Inc 	 218,442	 257,241	Zeos Intl Ltd 	1,016,876	 996,422	Zoll Medical Cp 	  49,322	  10,622	Zoom Telephonics Inc	 306,981	 270,899	Other Nasdaq	 	 		 	 	ADM Tronics Unlim 	  53	  36,000	APA Optics Inc 	  17,114	  33,671	ASA Intl Ltd 	  87,178	  12,870	Admar Gp Inc (The)	  3,467	  28,639	Advanced Enviro A 	 116,068	 174,231	Advanced Finl Uts 95	  0	  17,715	Advanced Med Prods	  47,582	  858	Advanced Nmr Sys Inc	 281,300	 328,708	Agristar Inc 	  30,889	  8,646	Air-Cure Environ Inc	  21,093	  52,322	Airship Intl Ltd 	  55,309	 126,266	Alanco Envirnmtl Res	  31,417	  67	Alco Intl Gp Inc 	 516,092	 420,942	Amer Bus Comp Cp 	 111,822	 205,830	Amer Drug Screen Wts	  0	  18,000	Amer Drug Screens 	1,900	  19,268	Amer Enterprises Inc	  4,952	  41,826	Amer Nursery Product	  32,592	  0	Amer West Airline 	 675,144	 690,475	Angeion Cp 	 226,934	 234,343	Aphton Corp 	  44,850	  28,346	Apogee Robotics Inc	  54,729	  7,950	Applied Laser Sys 	  400	  57,327	Applied Laser Wts A	  0	  21,052	Applied Laser Wts B	  0	  35,591	Archer Commun Inc 	 206,141	 204,829	Aspen Marine Gp 	  98,086	  48,600	Avitar Inc 	 548,353	 503,403	Avitar Inc Wts A 96	 217,890	 161,390	Bailey Cp 	  55,646	  73,167	Biocontrol Tech Inc	 272,831	 247,513	Biomechanics Cp Amer	  97,524	  64,816	Biomedical Waste Sys	  27,136	 112,089	Bradley Pharma Wts A	  984	  22,934	CAPX Cp (Del) 	  71,889	  47,698	CBLX Hldgs Inc 	  35,434	  3,168	Caledonia Mining Cp	  46,500	  4,871	Canterbury Education	  1,328	  43,928	Car Mart Inc A	  452	  75,945	Celebrity Resorts 	  0	  16,435	Centercore Inc 	  4,500	 138,131	Centurion Mines Cp	  11,223	  28,000	Champions Sports Inc	 206,143	 276,025	Check Express Inc0rp	  2,300	  27,300	City Investing Uts	 250,232	 250,000	Compumed Inc 	 120,113	  13	Comverse Tech Inc 	  600	  34,053	Comverse Tech Wts 92	  0	 220,850	Conquest Airlines 	 154,143	 108,083	Cortex Pharm Inc 	 287,399	 274,984	Creative Learn Prods	  13,212	  39,479	De Beers Cons ADR 	  46,902	  18,681	Digital Solutions 	  50	  18,000	Docucon Inc 	  62,770	 115,934	Dresdner Ag Sp ADR	 541,838	 636,520	Driefontein Cons ADR	  31,415	  700	Drivefone Inc 	  19,399	0	Dynagen Inc 	  70,707	  17,918	Eastco Ind Safety Cp	  23,134	  0	Education Alternativ	 218,332	 136,602	Elec Clearing House	  28,379	  9,800	Equity A U Inc 	  24,000	  6,900	Excel Tech Inc 	  7,569	  28,259	Findsvp Inc 	  7,723	  26,083	Fiberchem Inc 	13,536	  54,179	Fingermatrix Inc 	  70,456	 141,151	Finl Data Sys Wts A	  8,028	  33,398	Fisons ADR 	 115,907	  73,468	Fonar Corporation 	  33,932	  9,291	Fountain Pharm Wts B	  29,692	  2,000	Free St Cons Gld ADR	  68,679	  87,786	Gaming Devices Fund	 205,036	 230,471	Gentner Commun Wts	 170,025	  0	Geotek Inds Inc 	  8,070	  67,096	Gracecare Hlth Sys	 285,260	 150,440	Harmony Holdings Inc	  1,000	  38,000	Health Advan Svcs 	  35,726	  19,079	Health Club TV Ntwk	  20,725	 114,809	ICC Tech Inc 	  4,371	  76,561	I Flow Cp Wts 95	  27,488	  2,500	Info Mgmt Tech A	  54,123	  72,929	Innovet Inc 	  73,640	  2,885	Integrated Res Tech	  21,777	  0	Intl Bus Schls Wt 93	  38,945	  0	Irvine Sensors Cp 	  67,350	  4,228	LA Entertainment 	  35,000	  79,000	Lancit Media Prod 	  9,681	  87,485	Lancit Media Prod Wt	  51,922	  18,452	Lancit Media Wts 96	  73,585	1,500	Leak-X Envirnmntl Wt	  5,330	  60,880	Licon Intl Inc 	 102,439	  17,899	Lidak Pharm A 	  75,524	 144,216	Lukens Medical Cp 	  1,238	  27,568	Macland Inc 	  34,306	  12,052	Main St & Main Inc	 130,024	  76,495	Managed Hlth Benefit	  37,237	N.L.	Marcum Natural Gas	  0	  17,755	Mascott Cp 	 109,314	  0	Medgroup Inc 	  185	  18,277	Medi Mail Inc 	  54,130	  4,685	Members Service Cp	  62,880	  9,640	Metalclad Cp 	 210,588	  0	Mgmt Tech Inc 	 120,637	 170,637	Microterra Inc 	 175,361	 285,482	NTN Commun Inc 	  16,360	  39,558	Natec Resources Inc	 209,969	 228,548	Neolens Inc 	 252,991	 258,486	Noise Cancellation	1,431,984	1,284,847	Nutrition Mgmt A	  8,338	  26,980	Nytest Environmental	  33,110	  5,000	OIS Optical Imagin	  5,000	  30,431	Pamet Systems Inc 	  42,738	  80,738	Pantheon Inds Inc 	  1,760	  20,000	Paracelsian Inc 	  18,944	  39,038	Petromet Res Ltd 	  20,900	  0	Playorena Inc 	86,290	 106,853	Precision System Inc	  24,843	  0	Princeton Dental	  3,000	  42,904	Pro-Dex Inc 	  77,973	  2,011	Projectavision Inc	 259,457	 210,365	R2 Medical Systems	  34,900	N.L.	Royce Laboratories	 329,096	 517,312	Ryan Murphy Inc 	  850	  24,395	Ryka Inc Wts 	  68,045	  4,199	SGI International 	2,131,935	2,162,679	Sage Alerting System	  65,490	 107,840	Senetek ADR 	 312,000	 307,100	Sentex Sensing Tech	  12,010	  90,439	Site Based Media Inc	 876,946	 243,729	Southland Cp 	  73,247	  16,912	Starmark Inc 	  27,533	  4,933	Steve's Homemade A	  3,480	  22,796	TAT Technologies 	  0	  24,488	Technology Research	  22,935	  2,781	Telefonos de Mexico	  46,005	 134,953	Telmed Inc 	  31,660	N.L.	Teltronics Inc 	  20,150	  355	Therapeutic Tech 	  25,556	  5,556	Toyota Motor Cp ADR	  16,997	  35,370	Transamerican Waste	  44,819	  2,300	Trinity Cap Opp Wt A	  34,541	  6,626	Trinity Cap Oppty Co	 106,792	  65,039	Trinity Capital Ent	  47,793	  358	Trinity Capital Wt A	  66,191	  18,994	Trinity Capital Wt B	 143,754	  64,192	Unico Inc 	  46,200	  1,056	Uniquest Inc 	  15,758	  88,016	Vaal Reefs Explr ADR	45,532	  67,143	Valley Forge Sci Cp	 312,807	 340,156	Vector Aero Wts 96	  26,142	  1,000	Vector Aeromotive 	  29,296	  10,994	Video Comm Radio Inc	  18,951	  2	Vimrx Pharm Inc 	 228,968	 249,894	Vital Heart Sys Inc	 238,140	 240,163	Watson General Corp	  20,438	  886	Wisconsin Pharmacal	 324,745	 327,700	Zila Inc 	 126,372	81,505	
 
Short Interest Tables Explained
 These tables show issues with a short interest position in the current month of at least 200,000 shares or a change up or down from the previous month of at least 16,166 shares.
 Cover ratio represents the number of days, at average volume level, that it would take to purchase the number of shares sold short.
 T -- National Market System.
 N.L. -- Not listed.
 + -- Stock split.
 * May have been affected by arbitrage transactions resulting from any one or more of the following: proposed or pending acquisitions; convertible securities of the same company; rights offerings; stock splits or distributions; tenders; other special situations.
 Short interest may also be affected by options positions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: OSI (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (50%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS OSI RESTAURANT PARTNERS LLC (50%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SHORT SELLING STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TRENDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BONDS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N JOSEPH C PAPA (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



799 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Insurance Stocks Surge Except for Continental

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
Insurance company stocks surged yesterday on the expectation that the high losses from Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki would finally force property-casualty insurers to raise their prices on business insurance.
The rally in a host of highly regarded insurance stocks came after an announcement by the Continental Insurance Company that it had suffered losses totaling $200 million. Continental, which also said it was lowering its dividend for the first time since 1853, did not share in the rally and its stock price plunged by $6.125, to $24. 
 Just the day before, Prudential Insurance quadrupled its gross loss estimates to more than $1 billion, indicating higher overall losses to the insurance industry from Andrew than previously thought. Industry experts, still uncertain of how much the Florida toll will come to, say it may well top $10 billion.
 
Bad News Is Good News
 As strange as it sounds, such bad news could be good news to property-casualty insurers. A serious enough blow, experts say, could end the aggressive price cutting that has reduced business insurance premiums by as much as 40 percent over the last five years. Wall Street has been awaiting a turnaround in the pricing cycle.
The shares of some bellwether insurance stocks rose sharply, including, American International Group, up by $7.125, to $101.625, and the Marsh & McLennan Companies, up $5.50, to $89.
Others that rose included General Reinsurance, which jumped $8.125, to $102.50; Chubb up $4.50, to $79.25; the St. Paul Companies, up $3.375, to $72, and CNA Financial, up $3.875 to 91, as well as Cigna, up $3.25, to $50.75; Aetna, up $1.50, to $40.875, and Travelers, up 75 cents, to $22.125.
 "Its a phenomenal rally," said Orin Kramer, an economist and insurance company consultant in Fort Lee, N.J.
John H. Snyder, the senior vice president of the Property Casualty Department of A. M. Best, an insurance rating agency in Oldwick, N.J., said that it would take months to be certain that the much-awaited turn in the pricing cycle was going to take place. But, he said, it was clear that Wall Street believed it was getting close.
"The news from Prudential, from Continental means that the damage is greater than anyone imagined," Mr. Snyder said. "If there is a turn in the pricing cycle, people will want to buy just these types of stocks."
 
Leaving Reinsurance
 John P. Mascotte, chairman and chief executive of Continental, said yesterday that the company's pretax loss from Hurricane Iniki in Hawaii would total $55 million. The company had previously estimated its losses from Hurricane Andrew would come to $55 million and together with the cost of buying more catastrophe reinsurance coverage, the storm-related costs will result in a $200 million charge for the third quarter.
The company also announced it was withdrawing from the reinsurance business and from its modest international operations to concentrate capital on core businesses. That move will result in an additional $120 million charge for the quarter. Mr. Mascotte said the company was lowering its quarterly common stock dividend to 25 cents from 65 cents a share.
Continental, a New York company with $1.8 billion in capitalization or so-called consolidated surplus, writes commercial and personal insurance and has about $5 billion in annual revenues.
"This action is necessary in order to keep our business healthy," Mr. Mascotte said. "We remain confident in the soundness of our strategy, the quality of our people and the prospects for our future success."
The company also announced that its president and chief operating officer, William E. Thiele, would leave the company on Dec. 31. Mr. Mascotte will assume those positions.
Lowering the dividend was a particularly harsh move for Continental. The stock was widely held because of its high dividends and because it was one of a handful of companies that could boast it had not lowered its dividends in this century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (92%); MMC (NYSE) (91%); MHM (LSE) (91%); CNA (NYSE) (90%); CI (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (90%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (90%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ;CONTINENTAL INSURANCE CO TRAVELERS COS INC (92%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (91%); CNA FINANCIAL CORP (90%); CIGNA CORP (90%); CONTINENTAL INSURANCE CO (72%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;CONTINENTAL INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; HAWAII; KAUAI (HAWAII) UNITED STATES (94%); HAWAII, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; HURRICANE ANDREW; HURRICANE INIKI; STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCKS (CORPORATE); INDUSTRY PROFILES; COMPANY REPORTS INSURANCE (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); BUSINESS OWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); REINSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (79%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (79%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (79%); INSURANCE COMPANY RATINGS (79%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); CATASTROPHE REINSURANCE (74%); BONDS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER JOHN P MASCOTTE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992



800 of 968 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Mixed in a Slow Day With Little Economic News

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mixed in unhurried trading yesterday with no significant economic news to push it around.
In New York, the dollar closed at 120.55 yen, up from 120.15 yen late Wednesday. Overnight in Tokyo, the dollar fell to a closing 120.25 Japanese yen from 122.67 yen at Tuesday's close. Tokyo markets were closed Wednesday for a national holiday. Later, in London, the dollar rose to 120.60 yen. 
 The dollar closed at 1.4850 German marks in New York, down from 1.5005 late Wednesday. In late dollar trading in Europe, the dollar hit 1.4835 German marks, down from 1.4990 late Wednesday.
 
Yen Gets Stronger
 On Wednesday, the dollar fell to a new low against the Japanese yen as investors sought a haven from the turmoil that has plagued the European currencies.
Hillel Waxman, chief foreign exchange dealer for the Bank Leumi Trust Company, said the dollar traded in a narrow range yesterday during the calm that followed that battering.
"There is no economic news on which to give the dollar any strength," Mr. Waxman said. "We are sort of stuck here."
Mr. Waxman said the next possible impetus to the foreign currency market would be the German central bank meeting next week, and whether it acted on the mark.
"I think the market just doesn't know where it wants to go" without some indications, Mr. Waxman said.
In London, the British pound was unchanged at $1.7085. Later in New York it cost $1.7060 to buy one pound, less than late Wednesday's $1.7095.
 
New York Rates
 Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Wednesday's late rates, included: 1.3045 Swiss francs, down from 1.3095; 5.0405 French francs, down from 5.1140; 1,249.5 Italian lire, down from 1,258.00, and 1.24175 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2403.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Wednesday, were: 1.4835 German marks, down from 1.4990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUMI (TASE) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK LEUMI LE ISRAEL BM (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US DOLLAR (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (56%); 

PERSON: HILLEL WAXMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1992

 
