

401 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Oil's Rout Outpaces Its Advance 

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Michael Rose, the director of the energy trading desk at Angus Jackson in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., has made a lot of money for his clients by riding energy prices up the escalator of recent years. 
 But with fading risks of supply disruptions from things like a hurricane in the Gulf of Mexico or the rise in tensions with Iran, he started changing his position earlier this summer.
''Crude is coming down because it was way too high,'' Mr. Rose said. ''We had so much fear put into this market, that somewhere between 10 and 20 dollars were fear premium.'' 
 ''The reality is it is today's market,'' he added in an interview on Friday as crude oil traded at its lowest levels since March. ''And today the weather is nice and the Iranians are lowering their aggressive posture.'' 
 As crude oil prices have plunged about 18 percent over the last six weeks, from nearly $77 a barrel to less than $63 last week, many traders like Mr. Rose say they have been dumping and selling short stocks and futures contracts. In many cases, traders are betting against the very bets they made only a few weeks ago.
 As a result, some of those with the biggest bets may be caught in the cross-fire, just as Amaranth Advisors, a big hedge fund, appears to have been blindsided by the sudden drop in the price of natural gas. 
 It is hard to know whether the reversal is just temporary or reflects something more lasting. Oil prices rebounded slightly on Monday after BP announced that production from its hurricane-damaged Thunder Horse oil platform, the largest in the Gulf of Mexico, would not start until 2008. Light crude oil for October delivery closed Monday at $63.82 a barrel, up 0.77 percent, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 But for now, traders and hedge fund managers have been selling faster than they bought earlier this year. Some of the selling may be overshooting, as traders try to unwind their futures contracts. But speculation by energy traders that the price of oil is going down, or at least settling at lower levels than expected a few weeks ago, appears to be spreading.
 ''If you are one of these black-box guys, the market looks like it is in bad shape,'' said William Wallace, a trader on Nymex for Man Financial. ''I would not at all be surprised if we give up some more ground.''
 There are several reasons for the changing market. Oil companies that built up their inventories as prices rose are beginning to release those excess supplies to customers. Tensions in the Middle East have eased. Economic growth may be slowing. New drilling in the Gulf of Mexico suggests there are large deepwater reserves that seismic technology will make possible to tap. 
 Perhaps most of all, the surprisingly calm weather this hurricane season has alleviated fears of another serious production disruption like the one that followed Hurricane Katrina a year ago.
 Phil Flynn, a vice president and senior market analyst at the Alaron Trading Corporation, a brokerage firm in Chicago, said the big losses at Amaranth from the fall of natural gas prices should be a cautionary tale for other hedge funds that invest in commodities like oil and gas.
 ''There is always the possibility of a sell-off that could put a fund in trouble,'' he said. ''A lot of these funds are trading markets that are very volatile, and usually the higher the price that any market goes, the higher the risk of correction.''
 Mr. Flynn noted that trading volume for natural gas and crude oil set record last Tuesday, as a lot of commodity funds and traders exited positions before their options contracts became due on Friday and as they anticipated the expiration of the October futures contracts this week.
 In a research note on Friday, Wells Capital Management predicted that oil prices would head for about $50 a barrel. ''An oil crisis based on excessive oil dependence is hard to reverse, but one based on excessive risk premiums could quickly reverse,'' it suggested.
 The futures market can be fickle and those trading in it are still betting that prices next year will rise from current levels. The prices set for future delivery of a barrel of crude at different points next year average $67 to $68, and for 2008 the range is $69 to $70.
 But traders note that the prices contracted for next summer now are about $12 below the delivery prices set only a few weeks ago.
 Secretive and unregulated, and deploying proprietary trading systems, market speculators were blamed by some, including some oil industry executives, for driving prices higher than justified by supply-and-demand fundamentals. 
 Oil contracts held by hedge funds, the private firms run by traders who have large stakes in the risks and rewards of their clients, have doubled since 2001 as oil prices spiked. The growth in the number of big investors, like pension funds, in futures trading has led to large and rapid capital inflows into crude oil.
 But traders say they were just responding to the uncertainty in the market and the fears that energy suppliers, already operating on a razor edge, might face a sudden disruption that would send prices sharply higher.
 Still, the rise in oil prices from an average of $28 in 2003 has made commodity traders far superior performers than investors in the stock market. And for a while, that performance encouraged even more investors to pour even more money into oil futures.
 Now some of the traders themselves wonder if they will drive prices too low by selling off once-profitable positions that are turning sour.
 ''On the way up, there is buying greed,'' said Gary Pokoik, who manages Hedge Ventures Energy, a Los Angeles hedge fund. ''And on the way down there is a selling panic. The drop could snowball.''
 He added that the problems revealed at Amaranth could be repeated. ''There is always a manager out there who uses a lot of leverage to make a call that goes sour,'' he added. ''When they are wrong, they get wiped out.''
 Mr. Pokoik said that his modest-size fund, about $40 million, was tilted 70 percent toward long positions in energy stocks only two weeks ago, expecting prices to rise again. Now his portfolio is evenly split between long and short positions as he has begun to bet that stocks in the oil service sector will fall further. 
 For him the essential ingredient to energy price stability is good weather, with the possibility of more large drops in crude prices if the coming winter is warm.
 Art Gelber, president of Gelber & Associates in Houston, a consulting firm that advises hedge funds, said there was a ''change in psychology'' in the oil market about two weeks ago right after Chevron announced the discovery of huge oil fields in deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
 Even though those fields will not begin pumping oil for several years, he said ''the fear of short supply due to Indian and Chinese demand as well as political instability has given way to optimism that we may have additional control over domestic supply.''
 Traders, however, are also planning for the day when prices will rise again. ''We will be long again when prices are a lot lower and Wall Street hates the group,'' said Adam Newar, founder and manager of Eden Capital Management in Houston, a $220 million hedge fund that has been shorting a number of energy stocks the last four to six months. 
 But for the moment he is being cautious, taking careful bets on the other side of the action. ''Oil,'' he said, ''can easily go into the 50's here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders in the natural gas pit at the New York Mercantile Exchange on Friday tried to keep pace with rapidly falling energy prices. Calm weather and some easing of international tensions have led to lower prices. (Photo by Seth Wenig/Associated Press)(pg. C8)Graph tracks the price of oil since 2006. (pg. C1)Graph: ''Altered Outlook''Little more than a month ago, traders in the futures market expected prices to stay around $80 a barrel through next year. Now they expect prices to rise but from a much lower level.Graph tracks Oil Futures since 2006. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); FUTURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); WEATHER (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); OIL EXTRACTION (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Production; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%) Bp Plc

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (73%) GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



402 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: A Hedge Fund's Loss Rattles Nerves

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Enormous losses at one of the nation's largest hedge funds resurrected worries yesterday that major bets by these secretive, unregulated investment partnerships could create widespread financial disruptions.
 The hedge fund, Amaranth Advisors, based in Greenwich, Conn., made an estimated $1 billion on rising energy prices last year. Yesterday, the fund told its investors that it had lost more than $3 billion in the recent downturn in natural gas and that it was working with its lenders and selling its holdings ''to protect our investors.''
 Amaranth's investors include pension funds, endowments and large financial firms like banks, insurance companies and brokerage firms. The Institutional Fund of Hedge Funds at Morgan Stanley was an investor in Amaranth; as of June 30, it had a stake valued at $124 million. The turnabout in the fortunes of the $9.25 billion fund reflects the decline in energy prices recently; natural gas prices fell 12 percent just last week. 
 Yet also last week, Charles H. Winkler, chief operating officer at Amaranth, had met with prospective investors at the Four Seasons restaurant in Manhattan and reported that his fund was up 25 percent for the year, according to a meeting participant. Days later, rumors began circulating that Amaranth was losing money in one of its natural gas bets, a trade that had generated enormous profits for the fund in recent years. 
 Late in the week, the fund's traders began dumping large stakes in convertible bonds and high-yield corporate debt, securities that could be sold without disrupting the market. 
 Mr. Winkler did not return a phone call seeking comment.
 The scale of Amaranth's losses -- and how quickly they appear to have mounted -- was the talk of Wall Street yesterday, as was speculation on how much the bet was leveraged, or made on borrowed money. Still, there were no signs of ripples on the financial markets as a result. 
 Amaranth's woes are largely the result of a decline in natural gas prices that began in December, well before the spring months of March or April, when they typically fall off. Amaranth's biggest stake was a combination bet on the spread between natural gas futures prices for March 2007 and those for April 2007. Amaranth had often bet that the spread on that so-called shoulder month -- when natural gas inventories stop being drawn down and begin to rise -- would increase. 
 But instead the spread collapsed. In the last six weeks, for example, the spread between the two futures contracts ranged from $2.50 at the end of July to around 75 cents yesterday. 
 Traders briefed on Amaranth's problems, including one person who examined the fund's books yesterday, said that the losses might be considerably larger than the firm estimated. Over the weekend, according to one person briefed on the situation, Goldman Sachs examined the fund's positions. 
 Amaranth is not the first hedge fund to experience problems in energy markets. MotherRock Energy Fund, a $400 million portfolio, shut down last month after losing money on its bets that natural gas prices would fall. Summer heat sent prices soaring and the fund lost 24.6 percent in June and 25.5 percent in July, according to one investor. 
 The natural gas market is exceptionally volatile, making it an ideal playground for hedge funds that thrive on wide price movements in securities. Natural gas prices are subject to more severe swings than oil, in part because gas cannot be stored easily.
 Arthur Gelber, the founder of Gelber & Associates, an energy advisory and consulting firm based in Houston, said that as a result, the natural gas market was about five times more volatile than the stock market.
 The greatest demand for natural gas occurs during very hot or very cold weather, Mr. Gelber said. During mild periods, like early autumn, an oversupply of natural gas can cause a significant decline in price. Hedge funds have added to this natural volatility, he said.
 Amaranth was founded six years ago by Nicholas M. Maounis, a former portfolio manager who had specialized in debt securities at Paloma Partners, another large hedge fund. Amaranth employs a so-called multistrategy approach to investing that allows nimble portfolio managers to seize opportunities in whatever markets seem to be most promising at the time. 
 Now that Amaranth has owned up to huge losses in a single sector, ''multistrategy'' seems to have been a misnomer at the fund. 
 In his letter to investors, Mr. Maounis, 43, wrote: ''In an effort to preserve investor capital, we have taken a number of steps, including aggressively reducing our natural gas exposure.''
 Amaranth has additional offices in Houston, London, Singapore and Toronto and employs 115 traders, portfolio managers and analysts, according to its Web site. The firm deploys capital ''in a highly disciplined, risk-controlled manner,'' it noted.
 Its energy portfolio has been overseen by Brian Hunter, a trader who joined the fund from Deutsche Bank in 2004 and conducts trades from his hometown of Calgary, Alberta. Mr. Hunter made enough money at Amaranth in 2005, an estimated $75 million to $100 million, to place him among the 30 most highly paid traders in Trader Monthly magazine.
 Rocaton Investment Advisers, a consulting firm in Norwalk, Conn., whose clients have $235 billion in assets, recommended Amaranth to its customers. Yesterday, Robin Pellish, Rocaton's chief executive, declined to comment on her firm's relationship with the fund or to identify clients that it had advised to invest in it. 
 ''We're well aware of the situation with Amaranth and we are monitoring developments,'' Ms. Pellish said. 
 Citing Amaranth's woes, Stewart R. Massey, founding partner of Massey, Quick & Company, an investment advisory firm in Morristown, N.J., said, ''I think it will cause investors to go back and take another hard look at the multistrategy funds they are invested in and do a deeper round of due diligence.'' Mr. Massey said he did not have any exposure to Amaranth.
 The problems at Aramanth will help fuel a debate over whether more oversight is needed over hedge funds, which have become increasingly powerful forces in the markets. There are nearly 9,000 hedge funds, managing more than $1.2 trillion in assets. In 1990, hedge funds managed just $38.9 billion, according to Hedge Fund Research.
 Last week, in a speech in Hong Kong, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Timothy F. Geithner, said greater attention needed to be paid to the margin requirements and risk controls in dealings with hedge funds.
 The growth in hedge funds, Mr. Geithner noted, will eventually ''force us to consider how to adapt the design and scope of the supervisory framework to achieve the protection against systemic risk that is so important to economic growth and stability.''
 In 2004, Amaranth protested a new rule proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission that would have required certain hedge funds to register with federal regulators and undergo greater scrutiny. 
 ''Contrary to media stereotypes of hedge fund managers, Amaranth does not 'operate in the shadows' outside of regulatory scrutiny,'' its general counsel wrote. ''We do not understand why the commission is proceeding so urgently with this rulemaking when the public policy problem to be addressed remains poorly defined and the proposed regulatory response is so burdensome.'' 
 The rule, which was issued in late 2004, was struck down in June by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Last month, the S.E.C. declined to appeal the ruling.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Amaranth Advisors' trading floor in Greenwich, Conn. The hedge fund said that it had lost more than $3 billion in the downturn in natural gas. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)(pg. C8)Graph tracks the price of natural gas since 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); FUTURES (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); INSURANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (64%) Gas (Fuel); Futures and Options Trading; Hedge Funds; Stocks and Bonds; International Trade and World Market; Stocks and Bonds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Amaranth Advisors

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: Charles H Winkler; Gretchen Morgenson; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



403 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2082 words

HEADLINE: Time to Move the Mississippi, Experts Say

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
Scientists have long said the only way to restore Louisiana's vanishing wetlands is to undo the elaborate levee system that controls the Mississippi River, not with the small projects that have been tried here and there, but with a massive diversion that would send the muddy river flooding wholesale into the state's sediment-starved marshes. 
 And most of them have long dismissed the idea as impractical, unaffordable and lethal to the region's economy. Now, they are reconsidering. In fact, when a group of researchers convened last April to consider the fate of the Louisiana coast, their recommendation was unanimous: divert the river.
 Far from rejecting the idea, state officials have embraced it, motivated not just by the lessons of Hurricane Katrina but also by growing fears that global climate change will bring rising seas, accelerating land loss and worse weather. 
 ''A major diversion in the lower part of the river is something that needs to be done,'' said James R. Hanchey, deputy secretary of the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources. He said the state was convening a planning meeting on the idea this fall. The diversion would be well downstream of New Orleans, in the bird-foot delta at the river's mouth. Even so, there would be tremendous engineering challenges, particularly in finding a new way for freighters to make their way into the Mississippi's shipping channel, said Mr. Hanchey, who took his job after retiring as director of engineering and technical services for the Mississippi Valley division of the Army Corps of Engineers. But he added, ''I think it's within the realm of possibility.''
 Ellis J. Clairain Jr., interim director of the Louisiana Coastal Area science and technology program for the Army Corps, called the idea ''a possible alternative.'' 
 And Virginia R. Burkett, coordinator of global-change science for the United States Geological Survey and another participant at the April meeting, called it ''the only practical solution.''
 The diversion proposal was recommended by a panel of dozens of scientists and engineers from all over the world invited to Louisiana to view the state's marshy coast and to envision its future, said Denise J. Reed, a coastal geologist at the University of New Orleans who organized the meeting.
 ''The thing is to stop wasting 120 million tons of sediment'' the river carries into the Gulf of Mexico on an average year, Dr. Reed said. Because the bird-foot delta has grown so far into the gulf, she said, the river's mouth is at the edge of the continental shelf. As a result, the sediment it carries ends up in deep water, where it is lost forever.
 A diversion would send the river's richly muddy water into marshes or shallow-water areas where, Dr. Reed said, ''the natural processes of waves, coastal currents and even storms can rework that sediment and bring it up and bring it into the coast.''
 ''It's a lot,'' she said, enough to cover 60 square miles half an inch deep every year, an amount that would slow or even reverse land loss in the state's marshes, which have shrunk by about a quarter, more than 1,500 square miles, since the 1930's. Such a program would not turn things around immediately, ''but every year new land would be built,'' said Joseph T. Kelley, a professor of marine geology at the University of Maine, who took part in the April meeting.
 As the bird-foot delta broke up, Dr. Reed said, it would provide needed sediment to the frail strings of barrier islands that line some of the Louisiana coast.
 Another potential benefit, Mr. Hanchey said, would come from the substantial nutrient runoff from inland agriculture in chemicals that contribute to the so-called dead zone of oxygen-poor water near the river's mouth. Applied to the marsh, the nutrients might encourage desirable plants, he said.
 Designing such a diversion would be complex and time-consuming, and the experts who met in April did not even attempt it. Even this fall's meeting is not to plan the project, but to plan how the project should be planned, Mr. Hanchey said. Though Louisiana is rich in experts on river, wetland and coastal science, he said, state officials hoped to recruit scientists and engineers from all over the world to tell them ''what we would have to know before we could initiate work on something like this, and what we would have to do to gain that knowledge.''
 In a way, the bird-foot delta is an artifact of engineering. Without the levees and other structures that keep the river in place, it probably would have taken another path. 
 Like many major rivers, the Mississippi has tributaries, which feed water into it, and distributaries, which carry water away from it as it nears its mouth. Its tributaries include the Missouri and Ohio Rivers; one way or another, every stream, storm drain and parking lot from the Rockies to the Appalachians drains into the Mississippi. But about 250 miles from the gulf, near Lettsworth, La., the river stops taking water in and starts feeding it out, into the gulf through the main stem of bird-foot delta but also in distributaries like the Atchafalaya River, which flows into Atchafalaya Bay to the west. 
 Until people interfered with its flow, the Mississippi's path to the gulf silted up naturally over time; water flow slowed and the river bed lost its capacity to carry a big flood. When next the big flood came, the river would suddenly turn one of its distributaries into its new main stem.
 This kind of switching has occurred roughly every 1,500 years, geologists say, and since about 1950 the river has been ready for a change -- to the Atchafalaya. The Corps of Engineers prevents that from happening with an enormous installation of locks, dams and power stations near Lettsworth, north of Baton Rouge and about 100 miles northwest of New Orleans.
 Simply letting the Mississippi shift to the Atchafalaya would do a lot for the sediment-starved marshes west of the Mississippi. But it would leave cities like Baton Rouge and New Orleans -- and the petrochemical infrastructure between them -- without fresh water or a navigable waterway. 
 The diversion the scientists propose would be much farther downstream, but where exactly is not at all certain. One possible location is near Davant, about 45 miles southeast of New Orleans. Another is near Empire, further down the river, where the levees could be opened. In either case the river flow into wet and marshy areas to the west. Another way would have to be found -- or constructed -- for ships to reach the shipping lane, possibly something engineers call a slack-water channel.
 As Dr. Clairain explained, ''You divert the river, and then you create an avenue in which you are not allowing the river or the sediment to pass,'' a channel or lock in which water does not move. ''The ship comes up to whatever control you have'' -- a gate or the like -- ''and the ship passes through and then the control is reinstituted.''
 He said he was not aware of similar installations on this scale elsewhere but said, ''We have a lot of great people in the state and around the nation who are contemplating these kinds of solutions.''
 Almost certainly, he and others say, such an approach would require vast new construction. Dr. Clairain said it was unlikely planners would consider using the Mississippi River Gulf Outlet as a shipping channel. Known as Mr. Go, this outlet, just southeast of New Orleans, was blamed as a path for some of the floodwaters that inundated the city in Katrina. Chief among its drawbacks as a shipping channel would be the difficulty of keeping it dredged for big ships. 
 Other issues include the fate of those who live south of the proposed diversion, compensation for land lost to the project and ownership of any land created by it.
 Mr. Hanchey said relatively few people would have to be relocated. 
 ''The closest community is Venice, at the end of the levee system, about 10 miles north of Head of Passes,'' where the river splays into the gulf, he said, but its population even pre-Katrina was tiny. South of that is Pilottown, but that, he said, is little more than a place for river pilots to stay while they wait for ships.
 ''There might also be some oyster-lease issues, but those would be minor,'' he said.
 Another question has to do with land rights. Oliver Houck, a professor of environmental law at Tulane University, said fishing access and oil and gas rights are the crucial land issues in Louisiana. ''Under traditional land regimes,'' Professor Houck said newly created riverside or marsh land belongs to the abutting landowner. ''The wild card here is, what if you gain it through a huge federal-state project?'' 
 But Mr. Hanchey and Mr. Houck say those issues can also be dealt with relatively easily. Navigation is a bigger problem.
 People involved in the proposal recognize that the lower Mississippi is ''a working landscape'' that must continue to function, said James T. B. Tripp, a lawyer for Environmental Defense and a member of the Louisiana Governor's Commission for Coastal Restoration. 
 ''One of the major obstacles to doing any of this pre-Katrina was the navigation industry,'' he said. ''As a result of Katrina, everyone's thinking has become more flexible. Katrina brought all that home: how vulnerable this economic infrastructure has become. So there is a greater readiness today to think more boldly about how we can manage the river in a way that will help restore and build wetlands.''
 Of course the proposed project will be expensive. But Mr. Tripp said there were already ''three or four'' available financing sources, including coastal oil and gas revenues and other money already approved for coastal restoration. 
 ''Is it practical? Yes,'' he said. ''Will it be expensive? Yes. But when you look at the alternatives it's very cost effective,'' particularly in an era of rising sea levels.
 Obviously, no one wants to make irrevocable changes in the flow of the Mississippi River only to find out they cause more problems than they solve. Could that happen? ''I think it's possible,'' Mr. Hanchey said.
 But he added: ''Our ability to understand and model river responses to actions like this has improved. The technology of hydrodynamic modeling has improved, and of course we have tremendously increased computational power we did not have before. We can run models today in a matter of hours that took weeks even 20 years ago. All of that has improved.
 ''Still, whether we can model the river precisely I don't know. It's going to require a lot of data. It's going to require a lot of brains. There are probably a limited number of people in the world who have worked on something as large as the Mississippi River.''
 Dr. Clairain said the idea of constructing a project and then watching unanticipated consequences lead to disaster ''is the kind of thing the Corps of Engineers as a whole worries about.'' He continued: ''We are talking about doing projects that can have huge impacts to large portions of the nation, the economy, the people. If the project does not deliver all the ecosystem benefits you are hoping it will, you can make tweaks and the ecosystem will survive. That's not true of flood control and economics.''
 But there is a growing recognition that the cost of not acting will be high as well.
 Along the Louisiana coast, in the delta plain along the river and the oaky woods along Chenier Plain to the west, much of the land is only a few feet above sea level. If seas rise as expected by two or three feet, or more, in the next century, and if the muddy sediments that form this landscape continue to compact and subside, land loss will only accelerate. 
 Given the proposal's many unknowns, it is hard to say how soon water might begin to flow from the river into the marshes. If there is a decision to go ahead, designing the project might take three or four years, Mr. Hanchey said. ''And then of course to build something like this -- depending on what this thing ended up looking like, it would take another 5 to 10 years,'' he said.
 Meanwhile, Dr. Reed said, participants in the April meeting are going to produce ''a scholarly report'' outlining their views in more detail. 
 ''We want to get the citations and the context and the substance behind the arguments,'' she said. Dr. Reed said she was ''invigorated'' by the support the idea had received. ''My job is to try to carry it through,'' she said, ''and make sure people don't forget about it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: CHANGING COURSE -- Many scientists advocate diverting the Mississippi River below New Orleans, where towns like Pilottown, top, and Venice sit along the delta. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet for The New York Times)
(Illustrations by David Constantine, Joe Burgess/The New York Times)(pg. F4)
(Photo by Vincent Laforet for The New York Times)(pg. F1)Chart/Map: ''Redirecting A River''Since the Mississippi River, pictured above, was leveed in the 1800's, Louisiana has lost most of its coastline, which is normally replenished by river sediment. Engineers are proposing to reconfigure the river so it spills into the Gulf Coast farther north.Map of the Mississippi River in Louisiana and the surrounding area where the river empties into the Gulf of Mexico highlights the following:One proposed location of new Mississippi River outletAreas of reduced land lossAreas where new land would build upThe birdfoot delta would break up and wash inland to form a new barrier island.New barrier islandLand loss 1932-2050*New sediment movement*Projection for 2000-2050 if no changes are made.(Sources by Denise J. Reed, University of New Orleans
John Barras, United States Geological Survey)(pg. F1)Chart: ''A Less Mighty Mississippi''During the past 7,000 years, much of the Louisiana coast was created as the mouth of the Mississippi River meandered across the region filling the coastline with sediment. Now, levees and dams are preventing much of that sediment from replenishing the coast.MISSISSIPPI'S MANY DELTASThe Mississippi has always meandered but levees are preventing the river from making its next move, most likely to the Atchafalaya River.DRAINAGE BASINThe Mississippi drains more than 40 percent of the continental United States.Maps of the Mississippi highlight the previous river deltas - figures are years before present. (Figures range from 7,250 to 400 years ago to today.)A LOSS OF SEDIMENTThe Mississippi River transports 200 million tons of sediment per year to the Gulf of Mexico. But that is half of what the river carried three centuries ago, before European colonists first moved to the area and built levees and dams to protect themselves from floods.Maps/Diagrams compare the Mississippi River in 1700 and 1980-90:1980-1990Large reservoirs on the Missouri and Arkansas Rivers account for the biggest loss of sediment.In a controlled diversion, part of the Mississippi River and its sediment is now sent down the Atchafalaya RiverDeforestation and farming have resulted in a tenfold increase in sediment from the Ohio River.Maps/Diagrams highlight the amount of sediment in the river (per year) in millions of metric tons.(Sources by United States Geological Survey
 ''Contaminants in the Mississippi River'')(pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); HURRICANES (90%); WETLANDS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); WEATHER (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (79%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); ARMIES (67%) Ships and Shipping ; Global Warming; Weather ; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Research; Ships and Shipping ; Agriculture; Navigation; Coastal Areas; Floods; Levees

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (84%) University of New Orleans

PERSON: Cornelia Dean; Denise J Reed

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Mississippi River; Louisiana; Gulf of Mexico; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



404 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Plans to Relocate Hundreds to Downtown

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Three months before Gov. George E. Pataki leaves office, his administration is planning to relocate a number of state agencies and hundreds of employees to Lower Manhattan, as well as shuffle offices from other downtown neighborhoods to the World Trade Center site.
 In many instances, the agencies would migrate from lower-cost space in second-class office buildings to what promises to be one of the most expensive buildings in city history: the Freedom Tower, the tallest of four skyscrapers planned for ground zero. 
Critics have questioned the rationale for building the tower and filling it with public agencies. But the Pataki administration says the moves are all part of its continuing effort to rebuild Lower Manhattan.
 Mr. Pataki has committed to moving his office to the Freedom Tower from the top two floors of 633 Third Avenue, at 41st Street. A large state authority, the Empire State Development Corporation, also plans to move from that location to 125 Maiden Lane, five blocks east of ground zero. It is about to sell the nine floors it owns at 633 Third Avenue for roughly $100 million to buy space downtown. The profit will go to the state.
 Mr. Pataki, of course, will not be the governor in five years when the governor's office is expected to move to the Freedom Tower. And the office itself is 35,000 square feet, or 1.3 percent of the planned 2.6 million-square-foot tower.
 The state's Office of General Services announced on Sunday that it was negotiating to lease 415,000 square feet in the Freedom Tower. Although it said it had not decided which agencies would move there, state officials said that the State Department of Labor, now at 345 Hudson Street, would be the chief tenant in 2012, when the tower is scheduled to open.
 ''I'm keeping my word,'' Mr. Pataki said in a recent interview. ''I said the governor's office would return to the World Trade Center site. It was there in 1995 and it will be there when the Freedom Tower is completed.''
 Mr. Pataki noted that the state has 2.1 million square feet of space downtown, far more than the 1.5 million square feet it had before the Sept. 11 attack. The state's push to relocate downtown is continuing even as buildings are filling up and rents are rising after years of high vacancies. 
 And more state agencies may be coming to Lower Manhattan. The State Dormitory Authority, now at 1 Penn Plaza, near Madison Square Garden, and the State Housing Finance Agency, at Lexington Avenue and 54th Street, are also prime candidates for the Freedom Tower, officials and real estate executives familiar with the state's plans said.
 But the state is also considering moving agencies that are already downtown into the Freedom Tower. The state's Insurance Department, housing office and Office of Court Administration occupy 450,000 square feet at 60 Broad Street, where officials have told the landlord that they plan to move when the leases expire in 2008. That is several years before the Freedom Tower is scheduled to open, so the state may have to go elsewhere, or at least negotiate a temporary lease for several years.
 In any event, the state has tentatively agreed to pay $59 per square foot for space in the Freedom Tower, or about $24.5 million a year. Real estate executives say that is $4 million to $9 million a year more than what the rents will be in 2012 in buildings already occupied by the state.
 ''Why does the Department of Labor need to be in the Freedom Tower, the fanciest office space in Manhattan?'' said David Dyssegaard Kallick, senior fellow at the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonprofit group. ''It seems like a waste of public money.''
 Mr. Kallick and some urban planners and civic groups are also concerned that the state, the city and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the site, are repeating the mistakes made with the original World Trade Center. 
 It opened in the 1970's, in the midst of a recession, with 10 million square feet of space. Unable to lure private companies to the center, the state and the Port Authority moved public agencies into the largely vacant towers. Occupancy fluctuated wildly until 1998, when companies fleeing high rents in Midtown pushed the occupancy rate to 98 percent.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg sounded a similar warning in 2002 when he cautioned against rushing to build millions of square feet of office space on speculation. ''If we are honest with ourselves,'' he said, ''we will recognize that the impact on our city was not all positive. The twin towers' voracious appetite for tenants weakened the entire downtown market.''
 But now city, state and Port Authority executives have agreed to build 8.8 million square feet by 2012. So far, government agencies have tentatively agreed to lease a quarter of it. There are no other tenants yet for the other 75 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PROPERTY LEASES (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%) Area Planning and Renewal; World Trade Center (NYC); Freedom Tower (NYC); Government Employees; Office Buildings and Other Commercial Properties; Relocation of Personnel; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%)

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



405 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Departing Japanese Leader Shook Up Politics as Usual

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Junichiro Koizumi swept to power in 2001 promising to ''destroy'' his ruling Liberal Democratic Party and, by extension, Japan's encrusted postwar order. To a remarkable extent, he succeeded -- though hardly as radically as he had hoped. When Mr. Koizumi, 64, retires on Sept. 26, he will leave a Japan with new bearings: a smaller central government, greater faith in free markets and a new assertiveness in world affairs. 
 But his vision of a new Japan has already produced a backlash among Japanese who believe he has destroyed, along with the bad, much that was good of the old Japan.
Yet, while his policies were often unpopular, he has consistently drawn high approval ratings from voters hungry for charismatic, strong leadership. Even as Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and other politicians have suffered for their endorsement of the war in Iraq, Mr. Koizumi -- who to this day has expressed only the staunchest support for the war -- has remained unscathed. 
 He retires with an approval rate hovering around 50 percent, the highest of any long-serving postwar prime minister, perhaps because voters believe that he has fulfilled his promise of shaking up the old Japan and that it will be up to his successors to lead them to a new one.
 Clearly, though, there is no going back to the old ways, no matter who is elected as the leader of the Liberal Democrats on Wednesday and then chosen as prime minister next Tuesday.
 ''He's dramatically changed everything about how Japanese politics worked,'' said Park Cheol-hee, an expert in Japanese politics at Seoul National University in South Korea. ''Future prime ministers will have to follow his path. I don't think they can go back to the good old days of relying on interest groups and bureaucrats. The public will expect prime ministers to take real policy initiatives. Things have fundamentally changed.''
 How much of that change is attributable to Mr. Koizumi's policies is constantly debated among experts.
 The move away from the Liberal Democrats' politics of vested interests and patronage was inevitable, because Japan simply does not have the money it had before the collapse of its real estate-inflated ''bubble economy'' in the late 1980's, and after the succeeding years of little or no growth.
 What's more, far-reaching electoral reforms pushed through by a coalition of minor parties during the Liberal Democrats' 10-month ouster from power in 1993 laid the foundation for the changes under Mr. Koizumi.
 He pressed for painful economic reforms despite opposition from inside his own party. Those changes included deregulating industries, cleaning up the banks' bad loans and slashing the enormous and frequently wasteful public spending that had won his party votes for decades.
 But the revival of Japan's economy, many experts say, owes as much, if not more, to private companies' own restructurings and the booming trade with China's explosive economy.
 Whatever his share of the credit, Mr. Koizumi articulated more than anybody else the need for Japan to change. In the decade before his election, Japan went through a succession of weak leaders bewildered as to how to even begin guiding the nation out of an all-encompassing malaise.
 Mr. Koizumi was blunt. He told the Japanese, in some of his most famous slogans, to expect ''pain to accompany structural reforms,'' and said he would carry out ''structural reforms without exceptions.''
 To the surprise of almost everyone, his blunt talk and actions won him widespread support.
 ''The conventional wisdom was that Japanese prime ministers were inherently incapable of exerting leadership,'' said Takeshi Sasaki, a political scientist at Gakushuin University and a former president of the University of Tokyo. ''But Koizumi exercised leadership with great tenacity and tried many new things -- things that prime ministers had not said or done until now.''
 Unlike his predecessors, Mr. Koizumi eschewed the compromises that had led to paralysis. In a society that values consensus, he was famous for making decisions on his own and seemed to excel in making political enemies. He was -- in the words of his first foreign minister, Makiko Tanaka -- a ''weirdo.'' 
 And the public loved him. Each time voters had a chance to choose between him and Japan's old-fashioned politicians and bureaucrats, they backed him in large numbers.
 Last year, for example, he could have been stymied after members of his own party voted down a bill to reform the country's massive postal savings system -- effectively a savings bank that paid very low interest on deposits and had long lubricated the Liberal Democrats' political machine. But Mr. Koizumi responded by calling a snap election.
 After winning a landslide, he easily won approval to privatize the post office, potentially freeing its enormous reserves to serve the economy rather than the politicians. 
 He extended his single-mindedness to foreign policy, cementing Japan's alliance with the United States after a decade in which the value of the alliance had been questioned. He pushed through a special law to deploy troops to Iraq on a reconstruction mission, in a move that many Japanese considered to be against the spirit, if not the letter, of the country's pacifist Constitution. He tied the Japanese armed forces closer to the American military by participating in missile defense.
 ''The better our relations with the United States, the easier it will be for us to build good relations with China, South Korea, Asian and other countries in the world,'' Mr. Koizumi said during a visit to Japan by President Bush last November. ''That's my basic belief.''
 Mr. Koizumi may have nurtured such an ironclad relationship with Mr. Bush that he was rewarded with a farewell road trip to Graceland. But he brought Japan's relations with China to their lowest point in decades, and presided over the rise of a narrow nationalism at home and Japan's diplomatic isolation in the region.
 He made annual visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, the Shinto memorial where Japan's war dead and war criminals are enshrined. Most of his predecessors had avoided the shrine, regarded as a symbol of Japanese militarism in this region.
 Because of the visits, China and South Korea have refused to hold talks with Japan.
 Japan's hawks, though, say Mr. Koizumi's priorities were right.
 ''I give him a perfect score,'' said Hisahiko Okazaki, a former senior diplomat and a leading conservative commentator. 
 China's long-term strategy, Mr. Okazaki said, is to weaken the Japan-United States alliance. ''If that's the case, Japan's grand diplomatic strategy toward China is obvious,'' he said. ''What Mr. Koizumi did, as a strategy toward China, was correct.'' 
 But critics say Mr. Koizumi used foreign opposition to the shrine visits to rally nationalist sentiments among Japanese, who had lost their self-confidence because of the long economic slump and had grown fearful of China's rise.
 Under Mr. Koizumi, nationalist politicians and scholars who would like to whitewash Japan's militarist past have found fertile soil and moved into the mainstream. Government-sanctioned school textbooks increasingly omit facts from Japan's wartime history, like the use of slave labor and ''comfort women'' during the years it occupied Korea and Manchuria, or the massacre of 100,000 to 300,000 Chinese in Nanjing. 
 Japan's troubles with its neighbors, especially China, eventually grew so severe that policy makers and scholars in Washington in the past year began expressing worries that Mr. Koizumi's policy was hurting Japanese -- and American -- interests in Asia. But Mr. Koizumi's open appeals to nationalist symbols like Yasukuni won him and his party votes, a lesson that was absorbed by his likely successor, Shinzo Abe, the chief cabinet secretary.
 At home, Mr. Koizumi diminished the role of the central government and the bureaucracy and gave local governments more authority. He deregulated industries, opened opportunities for entrepreneurs and freed big companies to hire a greater percentage of temporary workers. 
 Japan's economy has bounced back, though its long-term recovery is uncertain. In a backlash against Mr. Koizumi's pro-market policies, an increasing number of critics have said that the changes have favored the rich and corporations, and that they have contributed to a widening in income gaps and a fraying of Japan's vaunted egalitarianism.
 Mr. Koizumi showed little interest in addressing those concerns. After passing the law to change the postal savings system last fall, which Mr. Koizumi had long regarded as the glue that held together the old Japan, he appeared to lose passion for his job. In June, he refused to extend a parliamentary session despite unfinished legislative business. He could not wait to leave the building, it was said, so that he could go to the United States and travel with Mr. Bush to Graceland.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan was greeted at an earthquake drill in Tokyo on Sept. 1. Despite the upheaval of government changes, he has kept his approval ratings higher than many of his predecessors. (Photo by Koji Sasahara/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); DEREGULATION (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ELECTION LAW (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%) Public Opinion; United States International Relations

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (56%) Norimitsu Onishi; Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) JAPAN (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%) Japan; China; Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



406 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: Constitution Bending: A Jurist's Argument

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

Not a Suicide Pact
The Constitution in a Time of National Emergency
By Richard A. Posner
171 pages. Oxford University Press. $18.95.
 Citing national security concerns in the wake of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, the Bush administration has repeatedly sought to expand presidential power, often doing so in secret and sidelining both Congress and the judiciary.
President Bush secretly authorized the National Security Agency, in search of evidence of terrorist activity, to eavesdrop on Americans without obtaining a court-approved warrant. The administration claimed that the president's war powers gave him the authority to detain people indefinitely and deny them access to lawyers and the courts -- a policy it would later have to modify in response to challenges in the courts. And it pursued a plan to put detainees held at Guantanamo Bay on trial before military commissions, a plan that the Supreme Court in June said violated United States law and the Geneva Conventions.
 The Bush administration's assertion that the war on terror is a new kind of war requiring new rules and a new equation between liberty and security is vehemently echoed by Richard A. Posner's alarming new book, ''Not a Suicide Pact: The Constitution in a Time of National Emergency.'' 
 In addition to being a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, Judge Posner is a prolific author, a lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School and an intellectual leader of a school of jurisprudence that has pioneered the use of economics to analyze legal issues. He is known for his willfully provocative opinions -- he once co-wrote an article recommending the private sales of babies -- and the positions he takes in this volume will not only fuel his own controversial reputation but also underscore just how negotiable constitutional rights have become in the eyes of administration proponents, who argue that the dangers of terrorism trump civil liberties.
 The very language Judge Posner uses in this shrilly titled volume conveys his impatience with constitutional rights, while signaling his determination to deliver a polemical battle cry, not a work of carefully reasoned scholarship. He writes about lawyers' ''rights fetishes,'' complains about judges' ''thralldom to precedent'' and declares that the absence of an Official Secrets Act -- which could be used to punish journalists for publishing leaked classified material -- reflects ''a national culture of nosiness, and of distrust of government bordering on paranoia.'' 
 Near the beginning of ''Not a Suicide Pact'' Judge Posner writes that ''rooting out an invisible enemy in our midst might be fatally inhibited if we felt constrained to strict observance of civil liberties designed in and for eras in which the only serious internal threat (apart from spies) came from common criminals.'' 
 He argues that ''it would be odd if the framers of the Constitution had cared more about every provision of the Bill of Rights than about national and personal survival.'' And he concludes that ''the importance of demonstrating resolve at the outset of a grim struggle explains and to a degree justifies the excesses of repression that so often accompany our entry into war, including the war against Al Qaeda.'' 
 This willingness to bend the Constitution reflects Judge Posner's archly pragmatic approach to the law and his penchant for eschewing larger principles in favor of utilitarian, cost-benefit analysis. Efficiency, market dynamics and short-term consequences are what concern Judge Posner, not enduring values or legal precedents. 
 One result is a depressing relativism in which there are no higher ideals and no absolute rights worth protecting. It is a distinctly cynical outlook that imputes the most mercenary of motives to everyone from journalists to judges: just as Judge Posner has asserted that the media merely pander to the demands of their audiences rather than striving to inform the public, so he suggests in these pages that justices simply ''make up constitutional law as they go along,'' following subjective criteria instead of striving to uphold principle and precedent.
 In fact, Judge Posner appears to see the Constitution as a fantastically elastic proposition that can be bent for convenience's sake. ''The greater the potential value of the information sought to be elicited by an interrogation,'' he writes, ''the greater should be the amount of coercion deemed permitted by the Constitution. The Constitution contains no explicit prohibition of coercive interrogation, or even of torture, to block such an approach.'' 
 Many of Judge Posner's arguments in this book are riddled with self-serving contradictions. While he declares that ''the Bill of Rights should not be interpreted so broadly that any measure that does not strike the judiciary as a sound response to terrorism is deemed unconstitutional,'' he also argues that ''a constitutional right should be modified when changed circumstances indicate that the right no longer strikes a sensible balance between competing constitutional values, such as personal liberty and public safety.'' 
 In another chapter, which discusses warrantless eavesdropping by the N.S.A., Judge Posner shrugs off the concern that government scrutiny of private communications could lead to embarrassment, intimidation or blackmail of the administration's opponents. While he acknowledges that ''such things have happened in the past,'' he says that ''they are less likely to happen today'' because factors like ''the growth of a culture of leaking and whistle-blowing'' and ''more numerous and competitive media'' have converged ''to make American government a fishbowl,'' and ''secrets concerning matters that interest the public cannot be kept for long.'' 
 Later in the book, however, he suggests that people's privacy (regarding information collected by government data mining) would be better protected if there were more restrictions placed on the news media and ''the principle of the Pentagon Papers case'' were ''relaxed to permit measures to prevent the media from publishing properly classified information.''
 Other arguments in this volume are no more than unsubstantiated -- indeed, highly dubious -- assertions. Judge Posner writes that ''it is better that the president assume the full responsibility for national security surveillance than that responsibility be diffused'' by involving judges because ''when power is concentrated, so is responsibility'': ''There would be fewer executions,'' he reasons, ''if the sentencing judge had to administer the lethal injection.''
 Judge Posner also insists that there is little reason for the judicial branch of government to act as a check on presidential overreaching when national security measures are agreed upon by Congress and the White House, because the legislative and executive branches ''are rivalrous even when nominally controlled by the same political party.'' The Republican Congress, he asserts in the face of overwhelming evidence to the contrary, ''has not been a rubber stamp for the national security initiatives of the Bush administration.'' 
 By the end of this chilling book, the reader realizes that Judge Posner is willing to use virtually any argument -- logical or not -- to redefine constitutionally guaranteed rights like freedom of speech during wartime. For instance, he expresses irritation with the Supreme Court's 1969 Brandenburg ruling, which stipulated that speech advocating violence or other criminal conduct cannot constitutionally be suppressed unless it is ''directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless action and is likely to incite or produce such action.'' 
 Although Judge Posner writes that ''in the present circumstances the enactment of laws forbidding radical Islamist expression would be needlessly provocative,'' he ominously adds that ''the situation may change'' and that he believes ''the incitement/threat category could be expanded'' to include ''generalized advocacy of violence against the United States.'' 
 In his opinion, he says, ''to tell Congress and the president that they can do nothing to prevent forms of advocacy likely to multiply the number of future terrorists makes no more sense than telling them that they cannot prevent the publication of recipes for bioweapons because it would probably take years to get from the recipe to the actual manufacture, let alone use, of the weapons.'' 
 Judge Posner believes that ''additional counterterrorist measures, in particular in the related areas of electronic surveillance and computerized data mining, could be taken without violating the Constitution (even if there were a clear constitutional right to informational privacy), especially if the effect on privacy is minimized by a strict rule against using information obtained through such means for any purpose other than to protect national security.'' And he writes that ''coercive interrogation up to and including torture might survive constitutional challenge as long as the fruits of such interrogation were not used in a criminal prosecution.'' 
 So is there anything Judge Posner thinks the Constitution forbids? He writes: ''But there is no handle in the constitutional text for the unilateral assumption of dictatorial powers by the president, no matter how desperate the circumstances. We don't want the Constitution to be just an old piece of parchment.'' 
 That snarkily delivered ''just,'' along with the use of the adjective ''unilateral'' to modify ''assumption of dictatorial powers,'' says it all: this book suggests that Judge Posner does regard the Constitution as an old piece of parchment -- a piece of parchment with certain rules, but rules that ''are made to be broken'' by a president during an emergency, no matter how long that emergency may last.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Posner (Photo by Guity Nashat)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SUICIDE (89%); WRITERS (87%); ESPIONAGE (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); MILITARY COURTS (75%); JUDGES (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); LITERATURE (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); APPEALS COURTS (70%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Michiko Kakutani; Richard A Posner

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%) ILLINOIS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



407 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Votes to Enhance Power of China and Others 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Member states of the International Monetary Fund, yielding to demands from China and leading Western countries, voted Monday to adopt a disputed plan to modify the fund's power structure and take steps to expand the voice of China and other rapidly developing nations.
 The modification of the governance of the fund, the international agency that monitors the global economy and rescues countries from insolvency, was widely described as the biggest step since the fund was established in the 1940's, the era when the victors of World War II created the vast cooperative superstructure for the world economy. 
China's share of the votes at the monetary fund, which has 184 members, would go up only slightly, to 3.719 percent, from 2.98 percent. The shares of South Korea, Turkey and Mexico, the other countries that gained more power from the vote on Monday, also rose a similarly modest amount. But the change was hailed by the United States and other nations as a decisive reform.
 ''It looks like a small step forward, but it's a large step,'' said Henry M. Paulson Jr., the United States Treasury secretary, who was here for the annual meeting of the monetary fund and the World Bank and participated in morning-until-night sessions assessing the global economy and possible steps to assure its health.
 The proposal passed with 90.6 percent of the total vote, the fund said. The names of the dissenting countries were not released. But the opposition had been led by Brazil, Argentina, India and Egypt, which had worried that they would be left with a diminished role at the bank. In a separate development, a committee of finance ministers that oversees the World Bank endorsed in principle a plan by Paul D. Wolfowitz, the bank president, to crack down on corruption in the bank's lending, but not unreservedly. The ministers added a proviso that the bank's board of executive directors, a separate group that oversees the day-to-day bank operations on behalf of donor and recipient nations, be able to override the way Mr. Wolfowitz carries out the plan.
 Mr. Wolfowitz, a conservative intellectual who was an architect of the Iraq war as deputy secretary of defense in President Bush's first term, has stirred unease in the bank with his corruption policy. Many directors fear that it may be overly punitive and lead to cuts in aid to poor countries.
 The finance ministers' committee also raised concerns, Mr. Wolfowitz said, about the standards to apply to various countries and the question of how much of the bank's resources should go to anticorruption plans.
 The finance ministers' committee issued a statement that supported the anticorruption campaign but with what seemed to be muted wording. It supported the bank's ''engagement'' on the issue but demanded further information on how it would be carried out , and in a suggestion of unhappiness, ''stressed the importance of board oversight of the strategy.''
 Some officials here indicated that the wording of the committee's statement reflected discomfort with Mr. Wolfowitz. But Mr. Wolfowitz said he was pleased the board had given him a green light to proceed with what has become a signature issue for him in his 15 months at the bank.
 Throughout the meetings the last few days in Singapore, much of the criticism from participating countries has focused less on the World Bank than on the overhaul of the monetary fund. The fund vote needed 85 percent of the 184 member countries' voting shares to be adopted.
 The United States has about 17 percent of the vote and Europe, in aggregate, about 23 percent. Mr. Paulson and his European counterparts have spent much of their time here lobbying other countries to agree to the change. Japan has a 6.1 percent share.
 The vote was not much in doubt, but many countries that voted in favor said they did so under protest. They signaled that in a second round of discussions, scores of countries, including many poor African nations, would be demanding a bigger voting share for themselves. The change in the fund governance was advocated by the United States and many European countries as a way of getting China and other developing countries to feel more invested in the international economic system.
 The monetary fund is one of many institutions that American and European officials say are in need of change. After the collapse of trade talks this summer, there are fears of disaffection with the World Trade Organization, the successor of a global trade regime set up 60 years ago. 
 Western leaders also want to change the composition of the United Nations Security Council, adding some countries to the roster of five permanent veto-bearing members. But they have been unable to agree on which countries to add. The United States wants to add Japan and one of several developing countries seeking membership.
 Mr. Wolfowitz has said that the World Bank also needs to change its governance to give more say to China and other fast-growing countries in the developing world.
 Under the surface of the monetary fund vote was another objective of the United States: to engage China in the fund as the fund expands its role in monitoring currency flows and exchange rates. Washington hopes that the fund will become another voice urging China to let its currency fluctuate more freely in relation to the dollar. 
 If there was one overriding consensus among European and American finance ministers, it was that China was artificially keeping the value of its currency low in relation to the dollar, and that this is an unhealthy pattern also being followed by Japan and other Asian nations. 
 The net effect, economists say, is that Chinese exports are cheaper than they should be, and its imports are more costly than they should be, aggravating the huge American trade and current-account deficits that have turned the United States into the world's biggest debtor nation. But Mr. Paulson said again in Singapore that a ''strong dollar'' remains in the United States' interest.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul D. Wolfowitz, left, the World Bank president, and Rodrigo de Rato, the I.M.F. managing director, after a news conference yesterday. Mr. Wolfowitz wants to crack down on corruption in World Bank lending. (Photo by Tengku Bahar/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 Zhou Xiaochuan is the governor of the central bank of China. (Photo by Lucas Schifres/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); CORRUPTION (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); TRENDS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ETHICS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); IRAQ WAR (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (63%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; Ethics; Boards of Directors; Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) International Monetary Fund; World Bank

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; Paul D Wolfowitz; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



408 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Loft Project In Jersey City Attracts A Big Name

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, N.J., Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Only a decade ago, the 13-block warehouse district near the waterfront here was little more than a tumbledown assemblage of buildings. 
 Over the years, it had become a refuge for artists and others, offering cheap rent for those priced out of Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn. But as Wall Street companies began migrating across the Hudson River, development on the waterfront surged. Builders, among them Donald Trump, saw opportunity and began creating luxury housing out of faded buildings, or constructing new ones.
 On Monday, officials and developers gathered at a hotel built on an old pier to announce a major coup: one of the world's most famed architects will transform a warehouse, once an artist enclave, into luxury lofts. 
 The architect, Rem Koolhaas, is a winner of the Pritzker Architecture Prize and the designer of the Seattle Public Library, the Las Vegas Guggenheim, and the Prada store in Lower Manhattan. 
 Mr. Koolhaas, who has described his work as ''flamboyant conceptually, but not formally,'' was approached after a settlement the city reached with the landlord over the zoning of the site. 
 ''My main intent is to do a sophisticated work,'' Mr. Koolhaas said in an interview on Monday, although he was short on specifics and said it would take about six months for him to draw up a plan.
 Of Jersey City, he said, ''It is clearly emerging into a new future, though it's not clear what.''
 Developers and Mr. Koolhaas say they want the site to become a center in Jersey City, one with shops, cafes, galleries and other amenities.
 How much of a role the current warehouse building will play in that vision is unclear. The building, a 140-year-old Greek Revival structure at 111 First Street, was a long a warehouse for the tobacco maker P. Lorillard and had been at the center of a long and bitter dispute. For 15 years it had served as a haven for artists -- some living there illegally -- and at its peak housed about 120 studios. 
 Last year, their legal options exhausted, the artists reached an agreement with the landlord, BLDG Management Company, based in Manhattan, to leave the building. In exchange they were forgiven what they owed in back rent.
 Even before the artists were evicted, the president of BLDG, Lloyd M. Goldman, said that the building was unsafe and ought to be demolished. 
 How much of the building Mr. Koolhaas will preserve is unclear. The settlement drawn up by the city requires that the facade be preserved, but officials here said that they would be open to any changes Mr. Koolhaas might propose.
 In July, the City Council approved zoning changes in the district that would allow developers on the site to build something considerably larger than what is already there, possibly as tall as 670 feet. The decision was criticized by local preservation and other groups.
 City officials boasted on Monday that getting someone like Mr. Koolhaas here was a boost to the city. ''We want to have someone of this status come here,'' said Mayor Jerramiah T. Healy. ''We wanted something spectacular.''
 The waterfront, once the terminus for numerous rail lines and later a derelict wasteland, has undergone a renaissance in the past decade. 
 Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs and other financial companies opened offices here. Last year, Mr. Trump announced that he would take the lead in developing the tallest residential building in the state a block from 111 First Street. Nearby, another high-rise is being built on the site of a former warehouse. Two blocks away, a 35-story residential tower is being built atop a former parking lot, and a half dozen warehouses in the district have been converted to luxury housing.
 But a softening economy over the past few years has prompted some developers to switch their ambitious office projects to luxury residential ones.
 The building Mr. Koolhaas intends to design will be 1.3 million square feet and include 710 condominium units. In addition, there will be 120 ''work-live units,'' some of which will be offered to artists at below-market rate. The plan also calls for 16,000 square feet of art galleries and about 52,000 square feet for retail use. The owners say they hope to start building next year and finish by mid-2009.
 Mr. Koolhaas said that Jersey City has potential, but acknowledged that the city is still a work in progress. 
 ''The streetscape is difficult,'' he said. ''It's not great yet. There's still a lot to be done.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); ZONING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); EVICTION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); APPROVALS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); CITIES (67%); TOBACCO MFG (50%) Architecture; Area Planning and Renewal; Lofts; Housing

COMPANY: BLDG MANAGEMENT CO INC (63%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (71%) Rem Koolhaas; Jonathan Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Jersey City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



409 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Tax Credits And Rewards Sought for Poor

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
In an effort to reduce the city's high poverty rate, the Bloomberg administration plans to offer tax credits to impoverished families to offset child care costs and cash rewards to encourage poor people to stay in school and receive preventive medical care.
 The tax credits, which would be worth up to $1,000 per child and would need approval from the City Council and the State Legislature, and cash payments would be unique among cities in the United States, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday in announcing the programs. 
 In a novel effort, the city plans to raise at least $24 million from the private sector to underwrite those rewards, said Linda I. Gibbs, deputy mayor for health and human services. 
 The mayor announced the plans as part of his response to the recommendations of his Commission on Economic Opportunity, which he convened this year to examine ways to help the roughly 1.5 million New Yorkers who live below the federal poverty level. For a parent with two children, that threshold was $15,735 last year. 
 The commission's members were drawn from the upper echelons of the city's business, nonprofit, academic and social services sectors -- with Richard D. Parsons, the chairman of Time Warner, and Geoffrey Canada, who runs one of the most acclaimed antipoverty programs in the country, at its helm. In putting together the recommendations, its leaders traveled to the city's poorest areas and even overseas to determine what strategies might be most successful.
 In keeping with the administration's emphasis on practical, measurable solutions to civic problems, the commission focused on the working poor, children younger than 6 and young adults, and it recommended creating a system to track progress. In all, those three groups amount to about 700,000 New Yorkers, officials said, slightly less than half of the number of city residents who live in poverty.
 Working under the notion that the best antipoverty strategy is a job, the commission also recommended expanding programs aimed at preparing students for college and giving high school students and adults work experience and job training. It also suggested better coordination among agencies to help people get benefits and services, thereby enabling them to seek and hold on to jobs.
 As if anticipating criticism that after an enormous investigation and analysis process that engaged hundreds of experts and poor New Yorkers, the commission's final report was neither bold nor far-reaching enough, Mr. Bloomberg defended the narrowed focus.
 ''What we're trying to do is to identify groups here that we believe we know how to help, focus our resources, demand accountability, try things,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''How many people we can help, how much we can improve society, we don't know. All we know is if we don't start we will never make any progress.''
 Saying that he endorsed the commission's recommendations enthusiastically, Mr. Bloomberg charged his agencies with developing plans within 60 days.
 Administration officials offered few specifics about their new programs, which they said they were still designing. 
 The payments could range anywhere from $50 to $1,500, officials said, and could be used to reward a range of actions, from scoring well on standardized tests to enrollment in service learning programs, which would funnel high school students into community service work. Officials are also weighing using the approach to spur enrollment in the Nurse-Family Partnership, a home visitation program that focuses on low-income first-time parents.
 City officials said that they did not know of another such cash incentive program in the United States, but that the approach has had success in Mexico and has been used in several other countries. Still, it is in keeping with Mr. Bloomberg's approach of engaging the private sector to encourage certain behavior with financial rewards, as he did with a program that offered shopping and dining discounts to protesters who remained peaceful during the Republican National Convention.
 The child care tax credit, which would be available to families earning $30,000 or less who use accredited child care services for children younger than 3, would cost about $42 million, city officials said. The plan is most likely to get a sympathetic hearing in the City Council, which has called for such a credit in the past.
 Mr. Bloomberg said that the city would create and expand college preparation programs like the collaboration with the City University of New York that allows high school students to take college courses. He also said that the city would create a program at its public hospitals to recruit home health care aides and subsidize their training to become nurses.
 Reaction to the report was tempered, with advocates and officials praising the mayor's focus on the issue but raising concerns about the lack of specific proposals.
 Joel Berg, executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, said he was disappointed that the report did not offer ''particular strategies to address city policies that continue to increase hunger.'' 
 Members of Community Voices Heard, an antipoverty group that advised the commission, worried that the focus on specific populations would ignore the problems of others, like the unemployed.
 ''When we actually see the action plans from the agencies,'' said Sandra Killett, co-chairwoman of the board of directors, ''then we will better be able to assess what the real benefits to people in poverty will be.''
 And City Councilman Bill de Blasio, chairman of the General Welfare Committee, said that Mr. Bloomberg was not vigorous enough in pressuring the private sector to raise wages or the state and federal governments to subsidize programs.
 ''I don't feel that he's holding the federal government and state government and private sector to the same standard that he's holding himself,'' Mr. de Blasio said.
 The City Council has scheduled a hearing on the report for Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (94%); POOR POPULATION (92%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); FAMILY (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHILD CARE (78%); POVERTY RATES (78%); CHARITIES (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PHILANTHROPY (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%) Taxation; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Education and Schools; Medicine and Health; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: Commission on Economic Opportunity (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); RICHARD D PARSONS (50%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Diane Cardwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



410 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Immigration's Lost Year

 BODY:
Congressional leaders and President Bush insisted for months that they were serious about fixing the immigration system. They weren't, and the more talk you hear about border security, about building walls and getting tough this time, the clearer it will be that hopes for effective immigration reform this year are past saving, pinned down by strong arms in the Republican-controlled House and kicked until dead. 
 The latest proposals are the product of a Republicans-only ''forum'' last week that distilled the bilge water of a summer's worth of immigration ''hearings,'' which were actually badly disguised campaign events. The hearings -- with titles like ''How Does Illegal Immigration Impact American Taxpayers and Will the Reid-Kennedy Amnesty Worsen the Blow?'' -- were show trials put on to destroy comprehensive reform by any means necessary. ''What I wanted was witnesses who agree with me, not disagree with me,'' said Representative Charlie Norwood of Georgia, putting it perfectly. 
The ''Reid-Kennedy Amnesty,'' by the way, refers to the now-defunct Senate immigration bill, which passed that Republican-controlled body with the support of stalwarts like Arlen Specter, John McCain, Mel Martinez, Bill Frist, Chuck Hagel and the most prominent Republican of all, Mr. Bush. One of the many signs of the hysteria accompanying this election season is the way their moderate approach to immigration has been tarred as wholesale ''amnesty'' for lawbreakers. 
 Like the summer hearings, the latest G.O.P. legislation is an empty vessel, a sham product aimed at the November elections that sells the test-marketed concept of ''security'' with little to back it up. By decreeing that a 700-mile fence should be the nation's top immigration priority while rabidly opposing a path to legal status for illegal immigrants, the House Republicans are hotly pursing a failed strategy. What satisfies the talk-radio appetite for justice -- wall 'em out and deport the rest -- is not just needlessly cruel. It also won't work.
 If the House Republicans have their way and enforcement-only becomes our national policy, illegal immigrants will keep their heads down and keep working, cowed into accepting low pay and abuse, dragging down working conditions for everybody else. Lawlessness among the employers who hire them will be encouraged. If you like this world of illegality, anonymity and under-the-table cash, then the House Republican approach is the one for you.
 Real immigration security means separating the harmful from the hard-working. It means imposing the rule of law on the ad-hoc immigrant economy. It means freeing up resources so that overburdened law-enforcement agencies can restore order at the border and in the workplace. It means holding employers, not just workers, responsible for obeying the law. And it means tapping the energy of vast numbers of immigrants who dream of becoming citizens and who can make the country stronger.
 These are huge tasks, and the anti-immigrant forces have nothing to contribute. They are out of ideas, except about getting re-elected. Their calculated inaction and half-measures mock Americans' support for comprehensive reform, which has been repeatedly confirmed in opinion polls.
 We will see whether the November elections will make the travesty worth it for the immigrant-bashers, but for the nation it has become a lost year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); IMMIGRATION LAW (79%); REFUGEES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); TEST MARKETING (76%); WITNESSES (75%) Immigration and Refugees; Editorials; Law and Legislation; Illegal Immigrants; Election Issues

PERSON: CHUCK HAGEL (79%); ARLEN SPECTER (59%); MEL MARTINEZ (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



411 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: On India's Despairing Farms, a Plague of Suicide 

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: BHADUMARI, India 

 BODY:
Here in the center of India, on a gray Wednesday morning, a cotton farmer swallowed a bottle of pesticide and fell dead at the threshold of his small mud house. 
 The farmer, Anil Kondba Shende, 31, left behind a wife and two small sons, debts that his family knew about only vaguely and a soggy, ruined 3.5-acre patch of cotton plants that had been his only source of income.
Whether it was debt, shame or some other privation that drove Mr. Shende to kill himself rests with him alone. But his death was by no means an isolated one, and in it lay an alarming reminder of the crisis facing the Indian farmer. 
 Across the country in desperate pockets like this one, 17,107 farmers committed suicide in 2003, the most recent year for which government figures are available. Anecdotal reports suggest that the high rates are continuing. 
 Though the crisis has been building for years, it presents an increasingly thorny political challenge for Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. High suicide rates and rural despair helped topple the previous government two years ago and put Mr. Singh in power.
 Changes brought on by 15 years of economic reforms have opened Indian farmers to global competition and given them access to expensive and promising biotechnology, but not necessarily opened the way to higher prices, bank loans, irrigation or insurance against pests and rain. 
 Mr. Singh's government, which has otherwise emerged as a strong ally of America, has become one of the loudest critics in the developing world of Washington's $18 billion a year in subsidies to its own farmers, which have helped drive down the price of cotton for farmers like Mr. Shende.
 At the same time, frustration is building in India with American multinational companies peddling costly, genetically modified seeds. They have made deep inroads in rural India -- a vast and alluring market -- bringing new opportunities but also new risks as Indian farmers pile up debt. 
 In this central Indian cotton-growing area, known as Vidarbha, the unofficial death toll from suicides, compiled by a local advocacy group and impossible to verify, was 767 in a 14-month period that ended in late August. 
 ''The suicides are an extreme manifestation of some deep-seated problems which are now plaguing our agriculture,'' said M. S. Swaminathan, the geneticist who was the scientific leader of India's Green Revolution 40 years ago and is now chairman of the National Commission on Farmers. ''They are climatic. They are economic. They are social.''
 India's economy may be soaring, but agriculture remains its Achilles' heel, the source of livelihood for hundreds of millions of people but a fraction of the nation's total economy and a symbol of its abiding difficulties. 
 In what some see as an ominous trend, food production, once India's great pride, has failed to keep pace with the nation's population growth in the last decade.
 The cries of Indian farmers -- or what Prime Minister Singh recently described as their ''acute distress'' -- can hardly be neglected by the leaders of a country where two-thirds of people still live in the countryside. 
 Mr. Singh's government has responded to the current crisis by promptly expanding rural credit and promising investments in rural infrastructure. It has also offered several quick fixes, including a $156 million package to rescue ''suicide prone'' districts across the country and a promise to expand rural credit, waive interest on existing bank loans and curb usurious informal moneylenders. 
 But pressure is building to do more. Many, including Mr. Swaminathan, the agricultural scientist, would like to see the government help farmers survive during crop failures or years of low world prices. 
 Subsidies, once a linchpin of Indian economic policy, have dried up for virtually everyone but the producers of staple food grains. Indian farmers now must compete or go under. To compete, many have turned to high-cost seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, which now line the shelves of even the tiniest village shops. 
 Monsanto, for instance, invented the genetically modified seeds that Mr. Shende planted, known as Bt cotton, which are resistant to bollworm infestation, the cotton farmer's prime enemy. It says the seeds can reduce the use of pesticides by 25 percent. 
 The company has more than doubled its sales of Bt cotton here in the last year, but the expansion has been contentious. This year, a legal challenge from the government of the state of Andhra Pradesh forced Monsanto to slash the royalty it collected from the sale of its patented seeds in India. The company has appealed to the Indian Supreme Court. 
 The modified seeds can cost nearly twice as much as ordinary ones, and they have nudged many farmers toward taking on ever larger loans, often from moneylenders charging exorbitant interest rates. 
 Virtually every cotton farmer in these parts, for instance, needs the assistance of someone like Chandrakant Agarwal, a veteran moneylender who charges 5 percent interest a month. 
 He collects his dues at harvest time, but exacts an extra premium, compelling farmers to sell their cotton to him at a price lower than it fetches on the market, pocketing the profit. 
 His collateral policy is nothing if not inventive. The borrower signs a blank official document that gives Mr. Agarwal the right to collect the farmer's property at any time. 
 Business has boomed with the arrival of high-cost seeds and pesticides. ''Many moneylenders have made a whole lot of money,'' Mr. Agarwal said. ''Farmers, many of them, are ruined.'' 
 Indeed, one or two crop failures, an unexpected health expense or the marriage of a daughter have become that much more perilous in a livelihood where the risks are already high. 
 A government survey released last year found that 40 percent of farmers said they would abandon agriculture if they could. The study also found that farming represented less than half the income of farmer households. 
 Barely 4 percent of all farmers insure their crops. Nearly 60 percent of Indian agriculture still depends entirely on the rains, as in Mr. Shende's case. 
 This year, waiting for a tardy monsoon, Mr. Shende sowed his fields three times with the genetically modified seeds made by Monsanto. Two batches of seed went to waste because the monsoon was late. When the rains finally arrived, they came down so hard that they flooded Mr. Shende's low-lying field and destroyed his third and final batch. 
 Mr. Shende shouldered at least four debts at the time of his death: one from a bank, two procured on his behalf by his sisters and one from a local moneylender. The night before his suicide, he borrowed one last time. From a fellow villager, he took the equivalent of $9, roughly the cost of a one-liter bottle of pesticide, which he used to take his life. 
 Those like him with small holdings are particularly vulnerable. A study by Srijit Mishra, a professor at the Mumbai-based Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research, found that more than half of the suicides in this part of the country were among farmers with less than five acres of land.
 But even those who are prosperous by local standards are not immune. Manoj Chandurkar, 36, has 72 acres of cotton with genetically modified seeds and sorghum in a neighboring village called Waifad. Every year is a gamble, he said. 
 Each time, he takes out a loan, then another and then prays that the bollworms will stay away and the rains will be good. On his shoulders today sit three loans, bringing his total debt to $10,000, a vast sum here. 
 The study by Mr. Mishra found that 86.5 percent of farmers who took their own lives were indebted -- their average debt was about $835 -- and 40 percent had suffered a crop failure. 
 The news of Mr. Shende's death brought his wife, Vandana, back home to Bhadumari. Relatives said she had gone to tend to her sick brother in a nearby village. By the time she arrived, her husband's body was covered by a thin checkered cloth. 
 A policeman had recorded the death -- the eighth in six months for the officer. 
 Ms. Shende, squatting in the narrow village lane, shrouded her face in her cheap blue sari and wailed at the top of her lungs. ''Your father is dead,'' she screamed at her small son, who stood before her, dazed.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Villagers in Bhadumari gathered in the house of Anil Kondba Shende and looked at his body as the local police investigated his suicide.
 Kausalya Shende standing in the field where her brother's cotton crop failed three times this year -- twice for lack of rain and once from flooding. (Photographs by Fawzan Husain for The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE (91%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); COTTON FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURE (88%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (66%) Agriculture; International Trade and World Market; Suicides and Suicide Attempts; Credit; Genetics and Heredity; Seeds; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Agriculture; Agriculture

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (79%) Somini Sengupta; Manmohan (Prime Min) Singh

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%) India

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



412 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; POLITICAL ACTION: THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 49 words

HEADLINE: Issues Along Party Lines

BYLINE: By FARHANA HOSSAIN

 BODY:
An analysis by The New York Times of 155 campaign commercials from the 11 most competitive Senate races reveals the themes Republicans and Democrats are hoping will resound with voters this fall. The survey was based on the advertisements the candidates featured on their Web sites. FARHANA HOSSAI 

GRAPHIC: PhotosChartChart shows percentage of ads in which the following topics are mentioned:Health careEnergyIraqEconomy and jobsChange in CongressSecurityTaxesNonpartisanshipImmigrationChart shows percentage of ads in which the following politicians are mentioned:Sen. John McCainPresident BushPROFILE: PennsylvaniaREPUBLICAN: Sen. Rick SantorumDEMOCRAT: Bob Casey Jr.Mr. Santorum's ads highlight his work on privatizing Social Security and his differences with Mr. Casey on immigration. Mr. Casey's ads focus on the economy. He accuses Mr. Santorum of rubber-stamping White House policies, especially the tax cuts.PROFILE: TennesseeREPUBLICAN: Bob CorkerDEMOCRAT: Rep. Harold E. Ford Jr.Most of Mr. Corker's ads focus on his working-class background and record as a fiscal conservative. His opponent focuses on national security and energy policies and criticizes the Bush administration's record on the war on terror and Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%) Election Issues; Political Advertising

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: BOB CASEY (79%) farhana hossain

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



413 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Gore Calls for Immediate Freeze On Heat-Trapping Gas Emissions

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
Former Vice President Al Gore called yesterday for a popular movement in the United States to seek an ''immediate freeze'' in heat-trapping smokestack and tailpipe gases linked by most scientists to global warming. 
 Speaking at the New York University law school, Mr. Gore said that rising temperatures posed an enormous threat and that only a movement akin to the nuclear freeze campaign for arms control a generation ago, which he said he opposed at the time, would push elected officials out of longstanding deadlock on the issue.
''Merely engaging in high-minded debates about theoretical future reductions while continuing to steadily increase emissions represents a self-delusional and reckless approach,'' Mr. Gore said. ''In some ways, that approach is worse than doing nothing at all, because it lulls the gullible into thinking that something is actually being done, when in fact it is not.''
 President Bush has opposed requiring cuts in heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide, saying a better payoff will come from a long-term effort to find or improve technologies that provide energy without emissions. The White House last night defended that approach. 
 ''This administration is not just talking about climate change,'' said Kristen A. Hellmer, a White House spokeswoman. ''There are more than 60 programs in place aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions that do not hurt the economy or move jobs overseas.''
 Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma and chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee, said the Gore proposals would create ''economic calamity.''
 Several representatives of industry groups said yesterday that the White House had been consulting with industry officials to consider a new energy initiative.
 In his speech, Mr. Gore also renewed a longstanding proposal to replace all payroll taxes with taxes on pollution, including carbon dioxide. And he said the United States should rejoin the Kyoto Protocol, the climate treaty, rejected by President Bush that requires industrialized countries to cut emissions.
 Mr. Gore has ridden a wave of attention since spring over ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' the popular film and best-selling book built around an illustrated talk on what he calls a ''planetary emergency.''
 His speech in Manhattan came ahead of a burst of planned discourse on global warming this week, including five Congressional hearings and three days of workshops at the Clinton Global Initiative, which are intended to solve the biggest problems hampering international development. 
 Philip E. Clapp, the president of the National Environmental Trust, a Washington group pressing for limits on heat-trapping gases, said he welcomed Mr. Gore's speech.
 ''There is no excuse anymore to continue to increase our emissions,'' Mr. Clapp said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); CORPORATE TAX (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%); BESTSELLERS (50%) Weather; Global Warming; Colleges and Universities; Women; Engineering and Engineers; Science and Technology; Discrimination

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (59%) National Academy of Sciences

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); JIM INHOFE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Andrew C Revkin; Al Gore; Cornelia Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



414 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: CANADIANS FAULT U.S. FOR ITS ROLE IN TORTURE CASE

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN; Scott Shane contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
A government commission on Monday exonerated a Canadian computer engineer of any ties to terrorism and issued a scathing report that faulted Canada and the United States for his deportation four years ago to Syria, where he was imprisoned and tortured. 
 The report on the engineer, Maher Arar, said American officials had apparently acted on inaccurate information from Canadian investigators and then misled Canadian authorities about their plans for Mr. Arar before transporting him to Syria.
''I am able to say categorically that there is no evidence to indicate that Mr. Arar has committed any offense or that his activities constituted a threat to the security of Canada,'' Justice Dennis R. O'Connor, head of the commission, said at a news conference.
 The report's findings could reverberate heavily through the leadership of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, which handled the initial intelligence on Mr. Arar that led security officials in both Canada and the United States to assume he was a suspected Al Qaeda terrorist. 
 The report's criticisms and recommendations are aimed primarily at Canada's own government and activities, rather than the United States government, which refused to cooperate in the inquiry. 
 But its conclusions about a case that had emerged as one of the most infamous examples of rendition -- the transfer of terrorism suspects to other nations for interrogation -- draw new attention to the Bush administration's handling of detainees. And it comes as the White House and Congress are contesting legislation that would set standards for the treatment and interrogation of prisoners. 
 ''The American authorities who handled Mr. Arar's case treated Mr. Arar in a most regrettable fashion,'' Justice O'Connor wrote in a three-volume report, not all of which was made public. ''They removed him to Syria against his wishes and in the face of his statements that he would be tortured if sent there. Moreover, they dealt with Canadian officials involved with Mr. Arar's case in a less than forthcoming manner.''
 A spokesman for the United States Justice Department, Charles Miller, and a White House spokesman traveling with President Bush in New York said officials had not seen the report and could not comment. 
 Prime Minister Stephen Harper said Canada planned to act on the report but offered no details. ''Probably in the few weeks to come we'll be able to give you more details on that,'' he told reporters.
 The Syrian-born Mr. Arar was seized on Sept. 26, 2002, after he landed at Kennedy Airport in New York on his way home from a holiday in Tunisia. On Oct. 8, he was flown to Jordan in an American government plane and taken overland to Syria, where he says he was held for 10 months in a tiny cell and beaten repeatedly with a metal cable. He was freed in October 2003, after Syrian officials concluded that he had no connection to terrorism and returned him to Canada.
 Mr. Arar's case attracted considerable attention in Canada, where critics viewed it as an example of the excesses of the campaign against terror that followed the Sept. 11 attacks. The practice of rendition has caused an outcry from human rights organizations as ''outsourcing torture,'' because suspects often have been taken to countries where brutal treatment of prisoners is routine. 
 The commission supports that view, describing a Mounted Police force that was ill-prepared to assume the intelligence duties assigned to it after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 Mr. Arar, speaking at a news conference, praised the findings. ''Today Justice O'Connor has cleared my name and restored my reputation,'' he said. ''I call on the government of Canada to accept the findings of this report and hold these people responsible.''
 His lawyer, Marlys Edwardh, said the report affirmed that Mr. Arar, who has been unemployed since his return to Canada, was deported and tortured because of ''a breathtakingly incompetent investigation.''
 The commission found that Mr. Arar first came to police attention on Oct. 12, 2001, when he met with Abdullah Almalki, a man already under surveillance by a newly established Mounted Police intelligence unit known as Project A-O Canada. Mr. Arar has said in interviews that the meeting at Mango's Cafe in Ottawa, and a subsequent 20-minute conversation outside the restaurant, was mostly about finding inexpensive ink jet printer cartridges.
 The meeting set off a chain of actions by the police. Investigators obtained a copy of Mr. Arar's rental lease. After finding Mr. Almalki listed as an emergency contact, they stepped up their investigation of Mr. Arar. At the end of that month, the police asked customs officials to include Mr. Arar and his wife on a ''terrorist lookout'' list, which would subject them to more intensive question when re-entering Canada.
 However, the commission found that the designation should have only been applied to people who are members or associates of terrorist networks. Neither the police nor customs had any such evidence of that concerning Mr. Arar or his wife, an economist.
 From there, the Mounted Police asked that the couple be included in a database that alerts United States border officers to suspect individuals. The police described Mr. Arar and his wife as, the report said, ''Islamic extremists suspected of being linked to the al Qaeda movement.''
 The commission said that all who testified before it accepted that the description was false.
 According to the inquiry's finding, the Mounted Police gave the F.B.I. and other American authorities material from Project A-O Canada, which included suggestions that Mr. Arar had visited Washington around Sept. 11 and had refused to cooperate with the Canadian police. The handover of the data violated the force's own guidelines, but was justified on the basis that such rules no longer applied after 2001.
 In July 2002, the Mounted Police learned that Mr. Arar and his family were in Tunisia, and incorrectly concluded that they had left Canada permanently.
 On Sept. 26, 2002, the F.B.I. called Project A-O and told the Canadian police that Mr. Arar was scheduled to arrive in about one hour from Zurich. The F.B.I. also said it planned to question Mr. Arar and then send him back to Switzerland. Responding to a fax from the F.B.I., the Mounted Police provided the American investigators with a list of questions for Mr. Arar. Like the other information, it included many false claims about Mr. Arar, the commission found.
 The Canadian police ''had no idea of what would eventually transpire,'' the commission said. ''It did not occur to them that the American authorities were contemplating sending Mr. Arar to Syria.''
 While the F.B.I. and the Mounted Police kept up their communications about Mr. Arar, Canada's Department of Foreign Affairs was not told about his detention for almost three days. Its officials, acting on calls from worried relatives, had been trying to find him. Similarly, American officials denied Mr. Arar's requests to speak with the Canadian Consulate in New York, a violation of international agreements.
 Evidence presented to the commission, said Paul J. J. Cavalluzzo, its lead counsel, showed that the F.B.I. continued to keep its Canadian counterparts in the dark even while an American jet was carrying Mr. Arar to Jordan. The panel found that American officials ''believed -- quite correctly -- that, if informed, the Canadians would have serious concerns about the plan to remove Mr. Arar to Syria.''
 Mr. Arar arrived in Syria on Oct. 9, 2002, and was imprisoned there until Oct. 5, 2003. It took Canadian officials, however, until Oct. 21 to locate him in Syria. The commission concludes that Syrian officials at first denied knowing Mr. Arar's whereabouts to hide the fact that he was being tortured. It says that, among other things, he was beaten with a shredded electrical cable until he was disoriented.
 American officials have not discussed the case publicly. But in an interview last year, a former official said on condition of anonymity that the decision to send Mr. Arar to Syria had been based chiefly on the desire to get more information about him and the threat he might pose. The official said Canada did not intend to hold him if he returned home. 
 Mr. Arar said he appealed a recent decision by a federal judge in New York dismissing the suit he brought against the United States. The report recommends that the Canadian government, which is also being sued by Mr. Arar, offer him compensation and possibly a job.
 Mr. Arar recently moved to Kamloops, British Columbia, where his wife found a teaching position.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Maher Arar arriving at the Ottawa airport on Sunday morning from his home in British Columbia. (Photo by Jonathan Hayward/Canadian Press)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TORTURE (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); DEPORTATION (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LEGISLATION (69%) Terrorism; Torture; Freedom and Human Rights; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%) Royal Canadian Mounted Police; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); STEPHEN HARPER (78%) Ian Austen; Maher Arar; Stephen (Prime Min) Harper; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SYRIA (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); JORDAN (79%); TUNISIA (79%) Canada; Syria

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



415 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Five Nations To Tax Airfare To Raise Funds For AIDS Drugs

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
A group of countries led by France plan to raise at least $300 million next year, mostly through taxes on airline tickets, to help pay for the treatment of children with AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, a senior French official said yesterday.
 The countries, acting through a new Geneva-based organization called Unitaid, plan to pool their buying power and have asked former President Bill Clinton's foundation to negotiate with drug companies for volume discounts. 
The countries -- France, Brazil, Britain, Norway and Chile -- will announce the new undertaking today at the United Nations.
 In all, they say, the plan can help pay for the treatment of 100,000 children with AIDS, and another 100,000 people who have become resistant to antiretroviral AIDS drugs, as well as the treatment of 150,000 children with tuberculosis and 28 million with malaria.
 ''We would not permit thousands of children to die in the United States and France,'' said Jean Dussourd, a French official who is coordinating the project for President Jacques Chirac. ''Why should we allow that in Asia and Africa?''
 The new infusion of money was welcomed by public health experts, who said long-term financing through dedicated taxes was especially suited for the lifelong treatment of people with AIDS.
 Though France and the other donors have promised that the aid will be in addition to other poverty financing, some analysts, like Steven Radelet at the Center for Global Development in Washington, worry that the airline tax revenue will eventually supplant traditional sources of assistance from annual government budgets.
 Other experts warned that the focus on the purchase of medicine and diagnostic tests did not deal with the most difficult obstacles to treatment in Africa: the extreme shortage of health workers and broken-down public health systems.
 ''Any solution that addresses diagnostics and drugs but not the human resources crisis and the lack of political will in many African settings will not be comprehensive,'' said Dr. Mark W. Kline, a pediatrics professor at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, which is sponsoring 50 American pediatricians working in seven African countries.
 Officials from France and the William J. Clinton Foundation say Unitaid's aim is not to single-handedly deliver AIDS drugs to children and other neglected groups, but to provide a reliable source of financing for the medicine and diagnostics and to free up other groups to focus on systemic problems in African public health.
 ''We'll have a sustainable way to assure a supply of drugs and tests for the long term,'' said Ira Magaziner, who leads the Clinton Foundation's AIDS program. Buying in bulk, he said, would also allow Unitaid to negotiate significantly lower prices.
 France is the dominant donor to Unitaid, providing $250 million of the $300 million for next year, all from an airline ticket tax it began collecting this summer. It is charging 4 euros, about $5, for every international economy ticket and 40 euros, about $51, for first-class ones.
 Britain is contributing about $25 million next year, drawn from its growing foreign aid budget, an amount that will rise to $76 million by 2010, British officials said.
 A dozen more countries are actively considering contributing by imposing airline ticket taxes of their own, Mr. Dussourd said. 
 The United States, which has its own ambitious global AIDS program, has rejected the idea of financing a health program with an airline tax.
 The United Nations AIDS agency estimates that only about 80,000 of the 660,000 children who need antiretroviral drugs globally are getting them. Mr. Clinton said in an interview yesterday that the money from Unitaid means poor countries with high H.I.V. infection rates would not have to ask themselves, ''Shall I save three 20-year-olds or two kids?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (96%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (91%); MALARIA (90%); AIR FARES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TUBERCULOSIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); PEDIATRICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); AIDS POLICY (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); LABOR SHORTAGES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Airlines and Airplanes; Children and Youth; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); CENTER FOR GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT (54%) Clinton, William J, Presidential Foundation; Unitaid (Orgn)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%) Celia W Dugger

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%) France; France; Brazil; Great Britain; Norway; Chile

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



416 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: A Stumble by Yahoo and Slow Home Sales Chill Investors 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks retreated, snapping the Nasdaq composite index's longest winning streak in eight months, as slowing advertising growth at Yahoo and a drop in home construction suggested the economy was losing momentum. 
 Yahoo, the most-visited Web site in the United States, tumbled 11 percent and set off losses in technology shares. Toll Brothers led declines among home builders, the market's worst performers this year aside from Internet companies.
Stocks reached the day's lows after Thailand's military seized control of the country and the prime minister, who was attending a session at the United Nations, declared a state of emergency. While prices rebounded in afternoon trading, an inflation report that suggested the Federal Reserve would keep interest rates unchanged at a meeting today failed to reassure investors.
 ''The market's vulnerable,'' said David A. Briggs, senior vice president of equity trading at Federated Investment Management in Pittsburgh, which has $30 billion in stocks. ''People begin to wonder about the psyche of the average consumer and how it might slow up the economy.''
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.87 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,318.31. Energy shares dropped the most among the benchmark's 10 industry groups as oil tumbled to a six-month low. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 14.09 points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,540.91.
 The Nasdaq fell for the first time in eight days, declining 13.38 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,222.37. The gauge last rose for seven consecutive sessions in the period that ended Jan. 11.
 Shares of mutual funds that invest in Thailand dropped in United States trading. Thai Fund fell 3.8 percent, to $8.65, after earlier tumbling as much as 7.1 percent. Thai Capital Fund lost 4.4 percent, to $9.70.
 The housing report, along with Yahoo's forecast, raised concern that corporate profits might slow and bolstered confidence that the Fed would keep interest rates at 5.25 percent today for a second time, after raising them for two consecutive years.
 Yahoo plunged $3.25, to $25.75, for the biggest percentage decline in the S.& P. 500. Other Internet shares declined. Google, the Internet search engine, slid $10.88, to $403.81. Monster Worldwide, owner of Monster.com, plunged $2.83, to $37.10. 
 Toll Brothers, the luxury-home builder, slumped 74 cents, to $27.42. Pulte Homes slid 46 cents, to $31.61.
 A measure of energy stocks retreated 1.6 percent. Exxon Mobil declined 80 cents, to $65.50.
 Crude oil for October delivery fell 3.4 percent to $61.66 a barrel in New York, the lowest since March 21. 
 Yields on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.73 percent, from 4.80 percent. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 18/32, to 101 3/32.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.639
High Rate: 4.640
Coupon Yield: 4.721
Low Rate: 4.620
Median Rate: 4.630
Total applied for: $35,376,893
Accepted: $11,824,143
Noncompetitive: $316,348

The four-week bills mature Oct. 19, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (86%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (80%); GOOGLE INC (58%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); PULTEGROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (86%); MWW (NYSE) (80%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); XOM (NYSE) (55%); PHM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (86%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (86%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (80%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (80%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



417 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Life Is Better; It Isn't Better. Which Is It?

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When the first snow falls on the North Shore of Chicago this winter, Robert Gordon will take his Toro snow blower out of the garage and think about how lucky he is not to be using a shovel. Mr. Gordon is 66 years old and evidently quite healthy, but his doctor has told him that he should never clear his driveway with his own hands. ''People can die from shoveling snow,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''I bet a lot of lives have been saved by snow blowers.''
 If so, most of them have been saved in the last few decades. A Canadian teenager named Arthur Sicard came up with the idea for the snow blower in the late 1800's, while watching the blades on a piece of farm equipment, but he didn't sell any until 1927. For the next 30 years or so, snow blowers were hulking machines typically bought by cities and schools. Only recently have they become a suburban staple. 
 Yet the benefits of the snow blower, namely more free time and less health risk, are largely missing from the government's attempts to determine Americans' economic well-being. The same goes for dozens of other inventions, be they air-conditioners, cellphones or medical devices. The reasons are a little technical -- they involve the measurement of inflation -- but they're important to understand, because the implications are so large. 
 For the last few weeks, there has been a roiling debate, both within the Democratic Party and between Democrats and Republicans, about how to describe living standards in this country. Among Democrats, the debate is really about how to talk to voters about the economy as the party tries to reclaim control of Congress this year and the White House in 2008. 
 One group of Democrats says that it's time to stop pulling punches and acknowledge that, at best, life is marginally better than it was a generation ago. The other group argues that the middle class's current problems should not obscure enormous progress made over the last few decades. President Bush and his aides agree with the progress part and go on to say that the middle class continues to do quite nicely today. Each group has its preferred numbers, which can be dizzying, but you don't need to dig into them to figure out what's really going on. You just need to understand snow blowers. help to illuminate two big issues, the first being that progress is easy to take for granted. Clearing a driveway without a shovel, buying an affordable cross-country plane ticket and -- on a totally different scale -- watching a very premature baby survive are all accepted parts of life today. They're also fairly recent developments.
 Polls show that Americans, in fact, understand this. By wide margins, they say they live better than their parents. ''Looking backward,'' the Pew Research Center reported last week, ''Americans were more inclined to say they had made progress than were the publics of any country surveyed in Europe or the Middle East and most of the countries surveyed in Asia, Latin America and Africa.'' 
 But the experts keep fighting over living standards, largely because the single most commonly used measure of well-being -- how much money people make -- can be very misleading. This is where inflation, the second big issue, comes in. 
 In the early 1950's, Toro began selling mass-market snow blowers, which weighed up to 500 pounds and cost at least $150. As far as the Bureau of the Labor Statistics was concerned, however, snow blowers did not exist until 1978. That was the year when the machines began to be counted in the Consumer Price Index, the source of the official inflation rate. By then, the cheapest model sold for about $100. 
 In practical terms, this was an enormous price decline compared with the 1950's, because incomes had risen enormously over this period. Yet the price index completely missed it and, by doing so, overstated inflation. It counted the rising cost of cars and groceries but not the falling cost of snow blowers.
 The cellphone and the air-conditioner also improved middle-class life, and also took years to get into the inflation numbers, by which point their prices had plummeted. Wal-Mart's effect on prices is another blind spot in the index, which considers something sold at a discount to be lower quality (and, therefore, not truly a bargain) than something sold at full price -- even when the items are identical, like a box of Tide or a can of Campbell's Soup. 
 Mr. Gordon, besides being a fan of snow blowers, also happens to be one of the country's leading macroeconomists. A decade ago he served on a government-appointed group known as the Boskin Commission. It argued, as Mr. Gordon still does, that the government exaggerated inflation by more than one percentage point every year.
 Some other economists think the skew may be somewhat smaller, but there's broad agreement, even at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, that the Consumer Price Index has its weaknesses. ''Use of the C.P.I. over extended periods of time,'' Patrick C. Jackman, a government economist, told me, ''is much more problematic than using it over short periods of time.''
 By overstating inflation, the official numbers understate the country's wealth, since every meaningful calculation of income subtracts inflation. The Census Bureau, for instance, says that the median-earning man who works full time -- the one in the dead middle of the earnings ladder -- made slightly less last year than in 1977. It is one of the main numbers cited by those who say life isn't much better now than 30 years ago.
 But Mr. Gordon's adjustments show that men actually got a 27 percent raise in this period and women 65 percent. The gains are not as big as those of the 1950's and 60's, but they do sound far more realistic than the official numbers. Think about it: we live longer than people did in the 1970's, we're healthier while alive, we graduate from college in much greater numbers, we're surrounded by new gadgets and we live in bigger houses. Is it really plausible, as some Democrats claim, that the middle class has made only marginal progress?
 In recent years, the government's economists have gotten much better at measuring inflation, introducing some new products, like Viagra, into the index within months. Of course, this means that incomes lately have not been understated by much and that their growth really has been miserly. (The recent reports showing healthy gains all refer to averages, which have been driven by huge gains at the top.) For all the sunny numbers that Republicans have offered up, the reality is that not a single piece of government data shows that most workers have gotten a significant wage increase since 2002. 
 So these are the facts. Americans are far better off than they were a generation ago, but the last few years haven't been very good. It's time for both parties to move on to the harder question: What are the policies -- in education, health care and other parts of the economy -- that will ensure tomorrow's middle class can afford the next invention as worthy as the snow blower?


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Ed Betz for The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Two Views of Pay''Census Bureau statistics show that men have made almost no economic progress over the last 30 years. But many economists say that the government exaggerates inflation and, as a result, undercounts earnings growth.Chart is indexed to 1976, when the median earnings of a man who worked full time was about $13,500.Graph tracks median earnings of men and Census Bureau numbers (adjustment, assuming inflation is overstated) since 1976.(Sources by Robert Gordon, Northwestern University
Haver Analytics
Census Bureau
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); LIVING STANDARDS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); TRAVEL TICKETS (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); CENSUS (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%) United States Economy; Snowblowers ; Cellular Telephones; Air Conditioning; Standard of Living; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Education and Schools; Medicine and Health; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (59%) Census Bureau

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



418 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F.'s Chief Calls for a Revival of Trade Talks 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Rodrigo de Rato, said yesterday that world economic growth may be turning down, and prodded policy makers to revive stalled global trade talks. 
 If an agreement ''does not materialize, prospects are for lower growth,'' Mr. de Rato said yesterday in Singapore at the start of annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
The International Monetary Fund said last week that the strongest economic expansion in three decades would cool next year, warning about inflation, oil prices and a housing market slowdown in the United States. World Trade Organization talks broke down in July for a deal the World Bank estimated would have been worth $96 billion in global commerce.
 The World Bank president, Paul Wolfowitz, called yesterday on the United States to accept cuts in farm supports, the European Union to reduce barriers to market access and developing countries to remove trade barriers.
 W.T.O. talks broke down mainly because of differences over agriculture. The United States demanded tariff cuts by India, Japan and the European Union and refused demands to reduce farm subsidies.
 Trade talks could increase prosperity and reduce poverty, Mr. de Rato said. ''Their breakdown is a first step toward bilateralism, and eventual protectionism.
 ''The world will either go forward to greater growth and broader opportunities, or backward, to narrow nationalism. We should not fool ourselves that there is a comfortable middle ground.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rodrigo de Rato, head of the fund, was in Singapore yesterday for the start of meetings. (Photo by Nicky Loh/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (96%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Agriculture; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Third World and Developing Countries; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%) International Monetary Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; European Union; Group of Seven

PERSON: Rodrigo De Rato; Paul Wolfowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



419 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Inflation Numbers Are Going the Fed's Way

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Call it good timing. 
 A day before the Federal Reserve's decision on where to set interest rates, the Labor Department reported fresh evidence yesterday that inflation is doing exactly what the central bank has said it would do: slow with the economy.
A widely watched gauge of inflation unexpectedly fell again in August, suggesting that prices, which have climbed steadily for most of the year, may be settling down. And a separate government report yesterday measured housing starts at the lowest level in three years, leaving little doubt that economic growth is indeed slowing. 
 The Labor Department reported that the Producer Price Index, which measures the wholesale prices that businesses charge each other, rose just 0.1 percent over all, matching the slowest pace of inflation growth this year.
 More tellingly, the so-called core index, which does not count the volatile prices of food and energy, declined 0.4 percent in August, after a 0.3 percent drop in July. That was the first back-to-back drop in almost four years.
 ''It clearly provides the Fed breathing room and the ability to be patient,'' said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist with the Bank of America. Mr. Levy, like many economists, predicted that when the Fed's policy-making committee meets today, it would leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 5.25 percent.
 The Fed's decision to hold interest rates steady last month -- the first time in two years it did not raise rates -- was a gamble that inflation would fall back as the economy cooled. Yesterday's producer price report, along with a similarly benign report on consumer prices last week, showed that for now at least, the Fed's economic prognosis is playing out. 
 ''It's really all gone the Fed's way since the Aug. 8 meeting,'' said Andrew Tilton, an economist with Goldman Sachs. 
 Few economists had predicted that the core index would fall in August; it had been rising about 0.3 percent a month for most of the year, and some speculated that the drop in July was an anomaly. 
 Indeed, the August results helped lower the annual wholesale inflation rate to 0.9 percent, the first reading below 1 percent since early 2004. As was the case in July, falling automobile prices were a major factor in keeping the numbers down. 
 On the housing front, yesterday's numbers added to a growing sense that conditions are deteriorating more rapidly than economists anticipated. Both housing starts and the number of building permits issued in August were well below forecasts. The annual rate of housing starts dropped to 1.67 million from 1.77 million in July. Building permits fell to an annual rate of 1.72 million from 1.76 million in July. 
 ''Most everyone expected that housing would soften and probably come in lower,'' said Gregory Miller, chief economist with SunTrust Banks. ''But this looks like more than simple inventory correction. It looks like developers have cut and run.''
 Yesterday's data and a report last week that annual consumer price inflation is at the lowest level since April virtually assure that the Fed will leave interest rates untouched today. In fact, many economists expect the Fed will not raise rates again this year. Some even expect an eventual rate cut.
 ''The unexpected 0.4 percent decline in core P.P.I. in August is more good news on the inflation front,'' Capital Economics, an economic research firm in London, wrote yesterday in a report. ''Today's data provides more evidence, if any were needed, that rates are on hold and the next move will be downwards.''
 The link between producer prices and consumer prices is not a direct one, so economists disagree over whether the fall in the Producer Price Index will actually mean lower inflation at the consumer level. But it helps soften the widely held belief that inflation is a serious concern. 
 ''It changes the psychology of inflation,'' Mr. Levy of Bank of America said. ''It gives a boost to the consumer at exactly the right time, when housing clearly has downside momentum.''
 Yesterday's data also showed that prices of goods in the early stages of the production chain -- unfinished goods like wood, paper and iron -- are not increasing as quickly as they were in July, a sign that wholesale prices could continue to moderate.
 Whether the threat from inflation has subsided is not clear, and economists still disagree on this point.
 ''The combination of decelerating energy prices and the softening growth profile, I think, would be very favorable for the inflation outlook,'' said Joel Prakken, chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, an economic forecasting company. Gasoline prices have been falling since late last month, pushing consumer inflation numbers down.
 But several factors could still send prices upward in the coming months. Since much of the August decline in producer prices resulted from falling automobile prices, a typical trend in the summer, September's numbers may show more price pressure. There is also the possibility that if gasoline prices continue to fall, businesses may raise prices without fearing a consumer backlash. In addition, unit labor costs are rising faster than predicted. 
 ''You could just have things snap back in the next direction in the next month or two,'' Mr. Tilton of Goldman Sachs said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Producer Prices''Index of finished goods prices, 1982=100, seasonally adjusted.Aug.: +0.1%July: +0.1June: +0.5Graph tracks index of finished goods prices since 2005.(Source by Labor Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BUILDING PERMITS (76%); FOOD PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (65%) United States Economy; Producer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing; Housing Starts; United States Economy

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



420 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

CHRYSLER PLANS RESTRUCTURING -- Chrysler said it would cut its production schedule for the rest of the year by 16 percent, because of slumping sales as a result of high gas prices, on the heels of similar cuts at General Motors and Ford. The head of Chrysler, Thomas W. LaSorda, above, signaled that it would embark on its second restructuring in six years. [Page C1.] 


AFTER THE STORM -- A day after disclosing that a disastrous bet on natural gas prices had produced losses of more than $3 billion, Amaranth Advisors, once among the nation's largest and hottest hedge funds, worked with commodity exchange officials to reassign its trades. [C1.]

OTHERS PROFIT FROM GAS DECLINE -- Even as Amaranth Advisors lost billions of dollars betting, in essence, that natural gas prices would rise, more fortunate traders raked in big profits in recent weeks counting on gas prices to fall. [C4.]

RIPPLE REACHES SAN DIEGO -- Much of San Diego County's pension fund strategy was tied to a basket of hedge funds that included Amaranth Advisors. [C4.]

MARKETING PITCH BITES BACK -- When Nicholas M. Maounis, founder of Amaranth Advisors, marketed his hedge fund to potential investors, he would stress his firm's significant investment in its risk management and teamwork techniques. Now, having lost more than $3 billion through a series of disastrous bets on natural gas futures, there is a hollow ring to Mr. Maounis's marketing pitch. [C5.]

RUSSIA CRITICIZED IN OIL DISPUTE -- Japan, Britain and the European Union expressed worries about a dispute between the Russian government and a consortium led by Royal Dutch Shell that is developing one of the world's largest oil and natural gas deposits on Sakhalin Island. [C7.]

QUESTIONS ABOUT LEGALITY -- An e-mail exchange from within Hewlett-Packard suggests that key members of the team supervising the board's leak investigation knew about the questionable legality of some methods as early as January 2006. [C1.]

FOX UNIT FOR CHRISTIAN FILMS -- Hollywood took another step toward America's vast and apparently growing Christian audience, as 20th Century Fox unveiled a new division, FoxFaith, that will release up to a dozen religious-oriented films each year. [E1.]

BUFFETT MAKES PLEDGE -- Warren E. Buffett pledged $50 million to help set up an international nuclear fuel bank that aspiring powers could turn to for reactor fuel instead of making it on their own. [A14.]

UNREST AMONG CONTROLLERS -- A drive by the Federal Aviation Administration to cut the number of air traffic controllers nationally by 10 percent below negotiated levels is producing tension, anger and occasional shows of defiance among controllers. [A16.]

WARNING ON GLOBAL GROWTH -- The managing director of the International Monetary Fund, Rodrigo de Rato, said that world economic growth ''may be turning'' down, and prodded policy makers to revive stalled global trade talks. [C3.]

MORE SIGNS OF SOFT LANDING -- A day before the Federal Reserve's decision on where to set interest rates, the Labor Department reported fresh evidence that inflation is doing exactly what the central bank has said it would do: slow down with the economy. [C3.]

YAHOO PLUNGES ON SOFT AD SALES -- Shares of Yahoo fell more than 11 percent after the company disclosed that it had sold less advertising in recent weeks than expected, largely because of a slowdown in automobile and financial advertising. Yahoo said that it would still meet its financial targets for the third quarter, but that its profit and revenue would be toward the bottom end of its forecast range. Market Place. [C1.]

NEW JOB FOR FORMER GILLETTE CHIEF -- James M. Kilts, the former chairman and chief executive of Gillette, is planning to announce that he is joining Centerview Partners, a recently started boutique investment banking firm. [C3.]

NASDAQ STREAK ENDS -- Stocks retreated, snapping the Nasdaq composite index's longest winning streak in eight months, as a drop in home construction suggested the economy was losing momentum. [C10.]

ONLINE

NAPSTER FOR SALE -- Now that Napster, the subscription music service, is on the auction block, DealBook looks at some potential buyers at nytimes.com/business.

INDIA'S MANUFACTURING PUSH -- India is moving to a much brisker pace of manufacturing growth, even as it faces infrastructure obstacles. An audio slide show is at nytimes.com/business.

MANAGING GLOBALIZATION -- Daniel Altman, global economics correspondent for The International Herald Tribune, offers a look at the day's news in his blog at nytimes.com/business.

TECH TALK -- A weekly technology program from the tech experts at The New York Times is at nytimes.com/technology.

Business Briefing

Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

TOSHIBA said that it would replace about 340,000 laptop computer batteries worldwide, the third recall of faulty batteries made by Sony in less than 40 days. (REUTERS)

DOW JONES & Company, publisher of The Wall Street Journal, cut its forecast for third-quarter profit because of declining advertising sales at the paper this month. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Yahoo shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (91%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); FUTURES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (62%); RELIGION (61%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); CIVIL AVIATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (66%); RDSA (AMS) (66%); RDS.B (NYSE) (66%); RDS.A (NYSE) (66%); GM (NYSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (66%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (74%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



421 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: With Premier at U.N., Thai Military Stages Coup 

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS and THOMAS FULLER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Wednesday, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
In Thailand's first coup in 15 years, military leaders seized control of Bangkok on Tuesday night, suspended the Constitution and declared martial law in the capital, effective immediately.
 There were no reports of violence.
 The moves came while Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra was in New York preparing to address the United Nations. He declared a state of emergency on Thai television, but was cut off in mid-speech. Later, he canceled his address to the General Assembly.
 The coup, led by the army chief, Gen. Sondhi Boonyaratkalin, also ''terminated'' both houses of Parliament, the cabinet and the Constitutional Court. 
 The events on Tuesday returned Thailand to a time that most experts here thought was finally past, raising questions about the future of Thai democracy and the stability of a country that is a prime tourist destination with strong economic links to the West.
 The coup came at the height of a drawn-out political crisis. In April, Mr. Thaksin was forced by huge street protests to step aside despite an overwhelming electoral mandate. In fact, though, he continued to lead the government and to wage political battles against his opponents.
 After a long break, demonstrations against the prime minister had been due to resume this week, bringing with them the danger of violent clashes between his supporters and opponents.
 Late Tuesday night, General Sondhi was shown on television in an audience with King Bhumibol Adulyadej, a clear indication that the highly revered constitutional monarch endorsed the move.
 On a military-controlled television station, a general in civilian clothes said a ''council of administrative reform'' had seized power in the name of the king. 
 Speaking for General Sondhi, who has publicly feuded with the prime minister, Gen. Prapas Sakultanak said that the military did not intend to rule the country and that it would ''hand power back to the people.'' He gave no timetable.
 The military has a long history of political involvement, staging 18 coups since Thailand became a constitutional monarchy in 1932. The last one, in 1991, installed a military leader who was pushed from power by a popular uprising the next year.
 Under heavy rain, tanks and armored personnel carriers took up positions blocking the entrance to the prime minister's office on Tuesday night. Other tanks arrived at government offices and major intersections. Witnesses reported that roadblocks had been set up on roads leading into the city. The streets were quiet, and even at the prime minister's office there was little tension. Some bystanders photographed one another standing near the tanks.
 Kitichai Songkeattisi, 40, a commercial photographer, said: ''The last time was much more intense. People were more afraid.'' 
 Mr. Thaksin is one of the most popular -- and unpopular -- prime ministers in recent Thai history. Thais' different viewpoints demonstrate a sharp social divide that he has played on during the crisis.
 Mr. Thaksin's party, Thai Rak Thai, or Thais Love Thais, has won three elections by landslides, in 2001, 2005 and again in April. Because of his broad support among rural voters, he was widely expected to win any new election.
 But as he has tightened his grip over much of the political scene, opposition to him has swelled among the elite, mostly in Bangkok. Public indignation rose after his family's tax-free sale of its $1.9 billion stake in a giant telecommunications company to a Singapore company.
 On television, the military spokesman, General Prapas, accused Mr. Thaksin of corruption and constant interference with the legislature and the courts. He apologized to the public for any inconvenience caused by the coup.
 In an effort to end the demonstrations and reassert control, Mr. Thaksin called an early election in April, which he won in a landslide. But the opposition boycotted the vote and a court annulled the result, in a severe setback for the prime minister.
 An election commission loyal to Mr. Thaksin set a new vote for Oct. 15, but its members were removed and jailed by a court for malfeasance. A new commission has said that election would be delayed.
 The televised announcement on Tuesday was made after reports of large-scale military movements around the capital. The military has been sharply divided between officers loyal to the prime minister -- some of them his relatives -- and others who oppose him.
 There has been tension over an impending military shuffle that would determine which faction would dominate.
 Interviewed in New York by CNN soon after early reports of a coup, Deputy Prime Minister Surakiart Sathirathai said, ''We hope that the situation should return to normal soon because the prime minister is constitutionally and legally elected prime minister and this is an elected government, so we have to do everything we can to uphold the principle of democracy.''
 General Prapas, speaking in Thailand, laid out the rationale for the military's move.
 ''The government's performance destroyed harmony in society,'' he said. ''Everyone tried to win over each other, and the situation continued to worsen. Most people don't trust the government because there are many signs of corruption.''
 He said the prime minister had hobbled independent bodies created by the 1997 Constitution to provide checks and balances. A leading demand of the prime minister's opponents is the writing of a new constitution that would temper executive power.
 General Prapas said many attempts had been made at compromise but had failed. ''That is why we, the Party for the Reform of Governance under the Constitutional Democracy, which consists of the army commanders and national police commander, have to seize power.''
 He added: ''We would like to insist that we have no intention of governing the country. We will return the power of constitutional monarchy back to Thai people as soon as possible to maintain peace and stability.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Sept. 20 with an article about the military coup in Thailand referred incorrectly to the building where soldiers were shown standing guard. It is a ceremonial government building that was once used for the Parliament. It was not used as the Royal Palace.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra at a meeting recently. After a long break, demonstrations against him had been due to resume this week. (Photo by Rickey Rogers/Reuters)
 Soldiers standing guard early today in front of the Royal Palace in Bangkok. A coup took place yesterday as the climax of a long political dispute. (Photo by Pornchai Kittiwongsakul/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ETHICS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); RIOTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (73%); WEATHER (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (60%); PHOTOGRAPHY (60%); TOURISM (54%) Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat ; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Courts; Constitutions; Martial Law ; Legislatures and Parliaments; Demonstrations and Riots; Elections; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) United Nations

PERSON: Seth Mydans; Thomas Fuller; Thaksin Shinawatra (Prime Min); Sondhi Boonyaratkalin (Gen); Bhumibol Adulyadej (King)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (94%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) THAILAND (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) Thailand; Thailand; Thailand

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



422 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan's Drug Habit

BYLINE: By Joel Hafvenstein. 
Joel Hafvenstein, an international development consultant, is the author of the forthcoming book ''The Opium Season.''

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
AS if there hadn't been enough bad news from Afghanistan of late, now the country's drug dependency is back in the headlines. On Sept. 2, the head of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime reported that the shattered country is now producing 92 percent of the world's supply of illegal opium, up from 87 percent in 2004. This deplorable new record will not be reversed by more belligerent counternarcotics measures. Instead, America, NATO and the Afghan government must reform a vital but neglected institution: the local police.
 In 2004, for the first time in history, farmers in every province of Afghanistan chose to cultivate opium poppies. The American and Afghan governments promised a major poppy eradication campaign. Aid agencies scrambled to create an economic alternative for the thousands of Afghans who depended on poppy farming to survive.
Thus in November 2004, I traveled to Lashkargah, the capital of Helmand Province, the opium heartland of Afghanistan, as the deputy leader of an ''alternative livelihoods'' project financed by the United States Agency for International Development. Our core team was made up of six Western aid workers, and we hired some 80 Afghan staff members. 
 In the long-term plan, alternative livelihoods meant helping Afghan farmers export high-value crops like saffron and cumin. It meant restoring the orchards and vineyards that had once made Afghanistan a power in the raisin and almond markets. It meant providing credit to farmers who had relied on traffickers for affordable loans.
 In the short run, however, with the first eradication tractors already plowing up poppy fields, we had no time for those approaches. Instead, we created public-works jobs. Like a New Deal agency, we handed out shovels to thousands of local Afghans and paid them $4 per day to repair canals and roads. We found plenty of work on Helmand's grand but dilapidated irrigation system, a legacy of early cold-war American aid. By May 2005, we had paid out millions of dollars and had some 14,000 men on the payroll simultaneously. The program buoyed the provincial economy, and would have made a fine launching pad for long-term alternatives to poppy. 
 Security was our Achilles' heel. There was a new American military base by the graveyard on the edge of town, but the few score Iowa National Guard members there lacked the manpower and the local knowledge to protect us. We could not afford the professional security companies in Kabul, most run by brash veterans of Western militaries. Then, just before Christmas, some of our engineers were carjacked. We resorted to the only remaining source of protection: the provincial police.
 We soon found that at their best, the Helmand police forces were half-organized militias with charismatic leadership and years of combat experience. At their worst, the policemen were bandits, pederasts and hashish addicts. Our local guard captain was one of the better ones, but he was still far from reliable. 
 Once I asked him what he earned as a district police commander. ''The governor paid us no salary,'' he curtly replied. ''The people gave us money. To thank us for solving their problems.'' I was never sure if we were paying him enough to solve our problems.
 When the attacks came, our security was useless. On May 18, five of our Afghan staff members were murdered in the field. The next morning, one of the funeral convoys was ambushed, leaving six more of our workers and their relatives dead. The police responded with indiscriminate arrests and bluster, but they lacked the investigative skills to catch the killers.
 We heard rumors that the attackers were Taliban troops -- and indeed, the attacks were harbingers of the Taliban resurgence that Helmand has seen in the last year. We also heard that the Taliban had been paid by local drug barons to attack our project. All we knew was that we were targets, and that we could not protect ourselves. Within days, we had stopped all our projects and most of the staff went home. 
 To reduce Afghanistan's poppy cultivation, Western governments must keep their focus on improving security. Aid agencies and the Afghan government cannot foster alternatives to opium while under fire. In chaotic times, Afghan farmers are more likely to plant poppy, which offers the surest and highest returns on investment. Some remote areas of Afghanistan have grown poppy since the time of Alexander the Great, but in the irrigated plains of Helmand it caught on only during the breakdown of order in the 1980's. With security restored, the farmers of Helmand could rebuild their province and return to licit crops.
 Local police forces are the weakest link in Afghanistan's security net. After the fall of the Taliban, the United States and NATO put most of their energy into building a professional Afghan Army. The police forces were essentially surrendered to local warlords -- not through any malign plan, but by lack of money and attention.
 Most Afghan policemen have now gone through a basic training course run by American and German police officers, but they return to units that are ill equipped, badly organized, founded on personal loyalty to a commander and accountable to no one. 
 The 4,500 British troops now fighting alongside Afghan soldiers in Helmand can defeat insurgents who muster in large numbers, but they cannot counter the Taliban's shrewder tactics -- urban ambushes, suicide bombings and strikes on ''soft'' civilian targets like our project. For that, the police are necessary.
 The Afghan Army and foreign powers must create space in which a professional, accountable police force can take root. This means continued military action against large Taliban incursions, diplomatic pressure on Pakistan to stop providing a haven for insurgents, and a focus on shielding the large cities of southern Afghanistan -- Lashkargah, Kandahar and Ghazni -- long enough for the Afghan government to establish the kernels of an improved police force there. It will also require an end to the impunity enjoyed by warlords and major traffickers, who can order an attack safe in the knowledge that the Taliban will be blamed. 
 The new Afghan police force needs clear lines of authority, formal disciplinary procedures and methods for internal oversight and public complaint. The officers need adequate pay and equipment, which can come only from Western sources, and better training in investigation and civilian protection. To ensure that all this makes a difference, the United States and its allies must commit experienced Western police officers to field-based mentoring programs with provincial police forces.
 The poppy boom won't be solved by police reform alone, of course. The Afghan government must purge drug kingpins from the federal and provincial governments, and continue disarming militias (friendly as well as hostile). 
 Nothing has cost President Hamid Karzai more popularity in the south than the sense that unscrupulous gunmen are back in control. Security was the Taliban's main selling point when it took control of the country in the 1990's; it could be again.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jeffrey Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); OPIUM (91%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); DRUG POLICY (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); COLD WAR (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (76%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (71%); CANNABIS (71%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%); IRRIGATION (62%); POLICE FORCES (56%); CARJACKING (50%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Opium; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS OFFICE ON DRUGS & CRIME (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%) United Nations; North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: Joel Hafvenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: LASHKAR GAH, AFGHANISTAN (91%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) IOWA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



423 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Fill Freedom Tower Stirs a Debate

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The new plan to have federal and state agencies occupy at least one million square feet in the Freedom Tower at ground zero has opened a vigorous debate among planners and real estate experts over whether taxpayers should be paying for some of the priciest government offices in the United States.
 On Sunday, Gov. George E. Pataki and other officials announced that federal and state agencies would be the anchor tenants in the planned Freedom Tower, occupying a million of the 2.6 million square feet, at a rate of $59 a square foot. As of last month, the average rent for office space was $35 in Lower Manhattan and $58 in Midtown, according to Newmark Knight Frank, a Manhattan real estate advisory firm. 
Critics of the development at ground zero say the relatively high rents, by today's standards, amount to an extravagant public subsidy and demonstrate the huge economic risks involved in the project.
 ''To have government agencies rent nearly half the building, in the absence of private-sector commitments, seems not only a bit excessive, but a rush by the governor to have a deal by the end of his term,'' said Brad Lander, director of the Pratt Center for Community Development, a nonprofit group in Brooklyn.
 Even the project's defenders concede that the $59-a-foot rent is high, though they maintain that the government's role as a tenant is defensible, and even essential. ''I believe it is a legitimate purpose of government -- and a legitimate use of government dollars -- to be a catalyst in rebuilding the World Trade Center area and restocking the office supply in New York,'' said Michael T. Cohen, chairman of the executive committee of GVA Williams, another Manhattan real estate advisory firm. 
 Interviews with several real estate experts, including two former officials at the General Services Administration, which builds, manages and rents property for the federal government, suggest that the Freedom Tower does indeed represent an extraordinary commitment by public agencies to spur the construction of the skyscraper and the broader revitalization of Downtown. 
 Both the critics and advocates of the Freedom Tower point to the history of the World Trade Center, which opened in the early 1970's with government agencies as its primary tenants.
 Those agencies, however, did not pay premium rents, and some of them even paid slightly below market rate, according to Guy F. Tozzoli, who oversaw the twin towers as the director of the world trade department at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, from 1962 to 1987. 
 Mr. Tozzoli, 84, recalled bargaining with the administration of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller to get state agencies to pay about $5.45 a square foot for 2 million of the 10 million square feet in the twin towers. ''It was not a lot at the time, but it was the best I could get,'' he said yesterday.
 In the past few decades, federal structures, including courthouses and office buildings, have been used to spur redevelopment in cities like Portland, Ore., St. Louis and Oakland, Calif., said Robert A. Peck, a former commissioner of the Public Buildings Service of the General Services Administration. In some instances, federal structures were planned for blighted or unstable neighborhoods. ''You're using federal employees a little bit as guinea pigs, point men and women in these neighborhoods,'' Mr. Peck said.
 Although Lower Manhattan is hardly decrepit, it suffered tremendous economic shock from the 9/11 attack, and it is not unreasonable for the government to rent space in the Freedom Tower to spur the rebuilding, Mr. Peck said. ''Everybody realizes the federal government has obligations in where to put its people, how to house them, that are different from a manufacturing corporation's,'' he said.
 The presence of government offices in the Freedom Tower, however, could deter private tenants, since businesses typically do not want to be near government neighbors, whose operations typically draw more visitors. ''High-end corporate tenants don't like to be in government buildings,'' said Barry M. Gosin, chief executive of Newmark Knight Frank. 
 The move of government agencies into the Freedom Tower could affect the real estate market in other parts of the city. ''Fifty-nine dollars a square foot is clearly more than the government is paying, or might pay, for alternative locations around the city,'' Mr. Cohen said, ''but by moving out of those alternate locations, they will free up moderately priced space which is desperately needed by the private sector.''
 Elliott D. Sclar, a professor of urban planning at Columbia University, said the announcement this week about government agencies being anchor tenants in the Freedom Tower showed ''the absurdity of using taxpayer money to bail this thing out one more time.'' 
 The ability of Lower Manhattan to compete with Midtown as a viable commercial district has been in question since the 1930's, he said, and the addition of the Freedom Tower and three buildings along Church Street could depress the market just as the twin towers did. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) Area Planning and Renewal; World Trade Center (NYC); Freedom Tower (NYC); Renting and Leasing; Government Employees; Government Employees; Relocation of Personnel; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (61%); BGC PARTNERS INC (56%)

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (61%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York State; New York State; United States; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



424 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Border Fence Must Skirt Objections From Arizona Tribe

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: TOHONO O'ODHAM NATION, Ariz., Sept. 14 

 BODY:
The Senate is expected to vote Wednesday on legislation to build a double-layered 700-mile-long fence on the Mexican border, a proposal already approved by the House.
 If the fence is built, however, it could have a long gap -- about 75 miles -- at one of the border's most vulnerable points because of opposition from the Indian tribe here.
More illegal immigrants are caught -- and die trying to cross into the United States -- in and around the Tohono O'odham Indian territory, which straddles the Arizona border, than any other spot in the state. 
 Tribal leaders have cooperated with Border Patrol enforcement, but they promised to fight the building of a fence out of environmental and cultural concerns. 
 For the Tohono O'odham, which means ''desert people,'' the reason is fairly simple. For generations, their people and the wildlife they revere have freely crossed the border. For years, an existing four-foot-high cattle fence has had several openings -- essentially cattle gates -- that tribal members use to visit relatives and friends, take children to school and perform rites on the other side. 
 ''I am O'odham first, and American or Mexican second or third,'' said Ramon Valenzuela, as he walked his two children to school through one gate two miles from his O'odham village in Mexico.
 But the pushed-up bottom strands of the cattle fence and the surrounding desert littered with clothing, water jugs and discarded backpacks testify to the growth in illegal immigrant traffic, which surged here after a Border Patrol enforcement squeeze in California and Texas in the mid-1990's. 
 Crossers take advantage of a remote network of washes and trails -- and sometimes Indian guides -- to reach nearby highways bound for cities across the country.
 Tribal members, who once gave water and food to the occasional passing migrant, say they have become fed up with groups of illegal immigrants breaking into homes and stealing food, water and clothing, and even using indoor and outdoor electrical outlets to charge cellphones.
 With tribal police, health and other services overwhelmed by illegal immigration, the Indians welcomed National Guard members this summer to assist the Border Patrol here. The tribe, after negotiations with the Department of Homeland Security, also agreed to a plan for concrete vehicle barriers at the fence and the grading of the dirt road parallel to it for speedier Border Patrol and tribal police access. The Indians also donated a parcel this year for a small Border Patrol substation and holding pen.
 Tribal members, however, fearing the symbolism of a solid wall and concern about the free range of deer, wild horses, coyotes, jackrabbits and other animals they regard as kin, said they would fight the kind of steel-plated fencing that Congress had in mind and that has slackened the crossing flow in previous hot spots like San Diego. 
 ''Animals and our people need to cross freely,'' said Verlon Jose, a member of the tribal council representing border villages. ''In our tradition we are taught to be concerned about every living thing as if they were people. We don't want that wall.''
 The federal government, the trustee of all Indian lands, could build the fence here without tribal permission, but that option is not being pressed because officials said it might jeopardize the tribe's cooperation on smuggling and other border crimes.
 ''We rely on them for cooperation and intelligence and phone calls about illegal activity as much as they depend on us to respond to calls,'' said Chuy Rodriguez, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in Tucson, who described overall relations as ''getting better and better.''
 The Tohono number more than 30,000, including 14,000 on the Arizona tribal territory and 1,400 in Mexico. Building a fence would impose many challenges, apart from the political difficulties. 
 When steel fencing and other resources went up in California and Texas, migrant traffic shifted to the rugged terrain here, and critics say more fencing will simply force crossers to other areas without the fence. Or under it, as evidenced by the growth in the number of tunnels discovered near San Diego.
 The shift in traffic to more remote, treacherous terrain has also led to hundreds of deaths of crossers, including scores on tribal land here.
 The effort to curtail illegal immigration has proved especially difficult on the Tohono O'odham Nation, whose 2.8 million acres, about the size of Connecticut, make it the second largest in area.
 Faced with poverty and unemployment, an increasing number of tribal members are turning to the smuggling of migrants and drugs, tribal officials say. 
 Just this year, the tribal council adopted a law barring the harboring of illegal immigrants in homes, a gesture to show it is taking a ''zero tolerance'' stand, said the tribal chairwoman, Vivian Juan-Saunders.
 Two members of Ms. Juan-Saunders's family have been convicted of drug smuggling in the past several years, and she said virtually every family had been touched by drug abuse, smuggling or both.
 Sgt. Ed Perez of the tribal police said members had been offered $400 per person to transport illegal immigrants from the tribal territory to Tucson, a 90-minute drive, and much more to carry drugs.
 The Border Patrol and tribal authorities say the increase in manpower and technology is yielding results. Deaths are down slightly, 55 this year compared with 62 last year, and arrests of illegal immigrants in the Border Patrol sectors covering the tribal land are up about 10 percent.
 But the influx of agents, many of whom are unfamiliar with the territory or Tohono ways, has brought complaints that the agents have interfered with tribal ceremonies, entered property uninvited and tried to block members crossing back and forth.
 Ms. Juan-Saunders said helicopters swooped low and agents descended on a recent ceremony, apparently suspicious of a large gathering near the border, and she has complained to supervisors about agents speeding and damaging plants used for medicine and food.
 Some traditional and activist tribal members later this month are organizing a conference among eight Indian nations on or near the border to address concerns here and elsewhere.
 ''We are in a police state,'' said Michael Flores, a tribal member helping to organize the conference. ''It is not a tranquil place anymore.''
 Mr. Rodriguez acknowledged the concerns but said agents operated in a murky world where a rush of pickups from a border village just might be tribal members attending an all-night wake, or something else.
 ''Agents make stops based on what they see,'' he said. ''Sometimes an agent sees something different from what tribal members or others see.''
 Agents, he added, are receiving more cultural training, including a new cultural awareness video just shot with the help of tribal members.
 ''Our relations have come a long way'' in the past decade, he said.
 Mr. Valenzuela said several agents knew him and waved as he traveled across the border, but others have stopped him, demanding identification. Once, he said, he left at home a card that identifies him as a tribal member and an agent demanded that he go back into Mexico and cross at the official port of entry in Sasabe, 20 miles away.
 ''I told him this is my land, not his,'' said Mr. Valenzuela, who was finally allowed to proceed after the agent radioed supervisors.
 Mr. Valenzuela said he would not be surprised if a big fence eventually went up, but Ms. Juan-Saunders said she would affirm the tribe's concerns to Congress and the Homeland Security department. She said she would await final word on the fence and its design before taking action.
 Members of Congress she has met, she said, ''recognize we pose some unique issues to them, and that was really what we are attempting to do, to educate them to our unique situation.''
 The House last week approved a Republican-backed bill 238 to 138 calling for double-layer fencing along a third of the 2,000-mile-long border, roughly from Calexico, Calif., to Douglas, Ariz. 
 There is considerable support for the idea in the Senate, although President Bush's position on the proposal remains uncertain. The Homeland Security secretary, Michael Chertoff, has expressed doubts about sealing the border with fences.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Flores, a tribal member, near a cross marking the spot where someone died in the desert on the Tohono O'odham Nation.
Ramon Valenzuela, a Tohono O'odham tribe member, with his children, Mathias, 14, and Valentina, 10.
 A four-foot-high fence with openings for cattle stretches along the Mexican border on the Tohono O'odham Indian Nation near Tucson. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)Map of Arizona highlighting Tohono O'odham Nation: The Tohono O'odham Nation straddles the Mexico border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); REFUGEES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MAMMALS (88%); CHILDREN (87%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); WILDLIFE (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation; Illegal Immigrants; Fences; Indians, American; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: Tohono O'Odham Indians

PERSON: Randal C Archibold

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Mexico; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



425 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Mubarak's Son Proposes Nuclear Program

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and MONA EL-NAGGAR; Jano Charbel contributed reporting from Cairo, and William J. Broad from Vienna.

DATELINE: CAIRO, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Gamal Mubarak, the son of Egypt's president, proposed Tuesday that his country pursue nuclear energy, drawing strong applause from the nation's political elite, while raising expectations that Mr. Mubarak is being positioned to replace his father as president.
 The carefully crafted political speech raised the prospect of two potentially embarrassing developments for the White House at a time when the region is awash in crisis: a nuclear program in Egypt, recipient of about $2 billion a year in military and development aid from the United States, and Mr. Mubarak succeeding his father, Hosni Mubarak, as president without substantial political challenge. 
Simply raising the topic of Egypt's nuclear ambitions at a time of heightened tensions over Iran's nuclear activity was received as a calculated effort to raise the younger Mr. Mubarak's profile and to build public support through a show of defiance toward Washington, political analysts and foreign affairs experts said.
 ''The whole world -- I don't want to say all, but many developing countries -- have proposed and started to execute the issue of alternative energy,'' he said. ''It is time for Egypt to put forth, and the party will put forth, this proposal for discussion about its future energy policies, the issue of alternative energy, including nuclear energy, as one of the alternatives.'' 
 He also said in a clear reference to the White House: ''We do not accept visions from abroad that try to dissolve the Arab identity and the joint Arab efforts within the framework of the so-called Greater Middle East Initiative.'' 
 When President Bush called for promoting democracy in the Middle East, he looked to Egypt as a leader in that effort. But with all the chaos in the region, and with the United States in need of strong allies, the administration has backed off on pressing for democracy here.
 Instead, it has witnessed the country reversing earlier gains, arresting political opposition figures, beating street demonstrators, locking up bloggers, blocking creation of new political parties and postponing local elections by two years.
 In his speech, Mr. Mubarak, an assistant secretary general of the governing National Democratic Party and head of its powerful policies committee, did not specify what he envisioned for a nuclear program, but there are several potential avenues.
 If, for example, Egypt simply purchased nuclear fuel from abroad to power its reactors under international inspection, and then returned the spent fuel to its supplier, it would pose no significant threat of being diverted to a weapons program, nuclear experts said. The Bush administration and the Europeans have proposed a similar arrangement to solve the Iran standoff, though Iran has so far rejected that approach.
 The trouble would come if Egypt, like Iran, insisted on developing the capacity to produce the fuel on its own, which would also give it the ability, theoretically, to produce weapons-grade uranium. 
 Many experts here welcomed Gamal Mubarak's proposal and dismissed suggestions that it might pose a threat to the West. 
 ''Egypt, and especially the N.D.P., is a strategic ally of the U.S.,'' said Hassan Abou Taleb, an analyst with the government-financed Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo. ''It does not seek confrontation with the U.S. over its nuclear program. Instead, it seeks cooperation. Why should the U.S. assist India in its nuclear program and not Egypt?''
 Mr. Mubarak's speech was delivered during the fourth annual party convention, presented as ''New thought and a second leap toward the future.'' Thematically, the party has refocused itself on bread-and-butter issues, talking about pensions, jobs and even how to promote soccer, which is a national obsession.
 Both Gamal Mubarak and his father have said that he is not interested in the presidency. But political analysts said that Egypt was serious about nuclear energy and that the speech was clearly aimed at promoting the younger Mr. Mubarak. Afterward, even party members said it appeared that he would be the party's candidate for president in 2011. 
 Distance from Washington and pursuit of nuclear power are two actions that could help shore up two of Gamal Mubarak's perceived shortcomings if he were to run for president: his lack of a military background and the perception that he and his father are Washington's lackeys. The nuclear program might help him win support among the military and the veiled criticism of Washington might help him restore some credibility with the public.
 President Mubarak, 79, has said Egypt, unlike Syria, will not allow the presidency to be inherited. He was elected to a new six-year term in 2004, and that is expected to be his last. Even party members close to the son acknowledge that there are no other candidates on the horizon, either in the party or in what remains of a crushed and disorganized opposition. 
 ''Even if we assume that Gamal Mubarak will run, what is the problem with that?'' said Gamal Moussa, a district party leader. ''He is an Egyptian citizen. I am one of the people who support him. He is an educated man and he is sensitive to the public. He has ideas and he is loyal to his country. If the party can get him the votes, then why can't he run?''
 Egyptians often joke about the president's son, watching as he checks off requirements to become president. He recently visited Washington, where he was greeted by President Bush. The party insisted he had gone to the United States only to renew his pilot's license. 
 With his nuclear proposal, the younger Mr. Mubarak also appears to be taking a page from the playbook of the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who has turned producing nuclear energy into a matter of national pride.
 Today, Egypt has no nuclear reactors for making electricity, nor the means to enrich uranium into atomic fuel. It has conducted atomic research for decades, but appears to have never pursued major programs for making reactors for power or nuclear arms, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency.
 Early last year, the agency reported ''a number of failures by Egypt to report'' on the history of its atomic research program, with most of the violations centering on small research facilities. Egypt has two research reactors.
 For the decades ahead, atomic experts foresee strong international growth in the use of nuclear power and expect developing states like Egypt to eventually build reactors. ''The N.D.P. has been discussing and deliberating the issue of developing nuclear energy for peaceful purposes for about three months,'' said Mr. Abou Taleb of the Ahram Center. ''This is not a secret.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Remarks on nuclear power by Gamal Mubarak, the son of Egypt's president, raised expectations that he was being positioned as a successor. (Photo by Mike Nelson/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%) Foreign Aid; United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Politics and Government

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Michael Slackman; Mona El- Naggar; Jano Charbel; William J Broad; Hosni (Pres) Mubarak; Gamal Mubarak

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) EGYPT (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (79%) Egypt; Egypt

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



426 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Randolph Goes With Plan B as Mets' A-Minus Squad Wins

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

 BODY:
It took until 2:30 a.m. yesterday for a cleaning crew to scrub and polish and vacuum the Mets' clubhouse until not a trace of the celebratory detritus remained.
 There were no corks or cigar wrappers lying around, no alcohol stains, funky odors or broken glass. The only evidence that the Mets had, in fact, clinched the National League East on Monday night was in the lineup Manager Willie Randolph fielded for last night's come-from-behind 3-2 victory against the Florida Marlins at Shea Stadium.
As a reward, Randolph did not start all the regular position players. So Julio Franco batted cleanup and started at third base for the first time since Oct. 2, 1982, when he was with Philadelphia. That was more than two months before David Wright was born. At first base, using Carlos Delgado's glove and batting fifth, was Michael Tucker. Anderson Hernandez, batting .113 entering the game, led off. 
 The Mets are enjoying a charmed existence. Hernandez had two hits, including his first career home run and run batted in, Lastings Milledge knocked in the tying run and Tucker drove in the winning run with a bases-loaded single in the eighth inning. 
 ''My A-minus boys came through,'' Randolph said.
 It was an A-minus squad, however, with an A-plus pitcher on the mound in Tom Glavine. He pitched eight superb innings, allowing four hits and throwing an economical 103 pitches in earning career victory No. 289 on a night that began with that outcome looking improbable.
 ''It felt like one of those spring training games with a long bus trip where none of the starters make it,'' Glavine said. ''But I tried not to worry about who was behind me and what the lineup was.''
 The relaxed mood extended into the clubhouse before and after. Players examined photographs taken during Monday's on-field celebration and set out Champagne bottles and uniform tops for one another to sign. Amid the lightheartedness, one serious ongoing issue -- the only one surrounding this team -- emerged front and center: Pedro Martinez's health.
 Martinez grew prickly when asked about his side session Monday -- ''Since when do you talk about a side session?'' he said -- but turned reflective when the conversation shifted to the playoffs. Specifically, whether he would be healthy. 
 Martinez said he was hopeful about the strained calf muscle in his right leg -- his push-off leg -- but he did not want to speculate how he would feel in two weeks, when the Mets begin the playoffs at Shea. He has two more starts scheduled in the regular season, including tomorrow, and when asked if he wanted to accomplish anything in particular, he replied: ''Health, health and nothing else. Health and confidence.''
 With a healthy Martinez, the Mets are a bona fide World Series contender. Without him? They would rather not face that situation. Martinez knows as much. If he is not confident in his physical and emotional state, then his teammates should not be either, he said. 
 ''They can't have it if I don't,'' Martinez said. ''I'm optimistic I'll be healthy, and if I'm healthy I'm capable of doing a lot of things. But there are no guarantees.''
 Usually the team's most visible player, Martinez refrained from rejoining his teammates on the field once the party spilled out of the clubhouse Monday night. They smoked cigars and swigged Champagne and laughed and hugged until past midnight, and some continued their celebrations afterward. Carlos Beltran ate dinner in Manhattan with Carlos Delgado, Jose Valentin and Franco. Beltran returned home to Long Island and then, as he said he usually did, fell asleep at about 3 a.m. Billy Wagner, meanwhile, sped home to Connecticut, was in bed by 1 a.m. and was out the door by 8 to drive his children to school. John Maine watched the highlights on television.
 ''I kept it low-key,'' Maine said. ''Didn't want to do anything that would get pictures of me on the Internet.''
 Randolph said he was still wading through the ''30-something'' messages on his cellphone, but yesterday afternoon he received congratulatory phone calls from Gary Carter and Gil Hodges's widow, Joan. Many of those messages were left immediately after Monday's game, but Randolph said, in the postcelebration sanctuary of his office, he noticed his cellphone vibrating and felt compelled to answer it. On the other end was Yankees Manager Joe Torre. 
 ''Glad I was able to pick that one up,'' Randolph said. ''I told him I'd call him back in a couple of days when he wins it.''
 Randolph said he did not anticipate trotting out this unorthodox lineup again. But with 12 games remaining, he will try to balance offering rest to players who need it without trying to break them out of their routine. Beltran, Wright and Jose Reyes should receive extra time off, Randolph said, and Paul Lo Duca may receive some rest as well. Although Ramon Castro is recovering from knee surgery, the Mets could use the next two weeks to evaluate the backup catchers Kelly Stinnett and Mike DiFelice.
 Otherwise, there are two still more goals before the season ends: 100 victories and securing home-field advantage through the first two rounds of the playoffs. They must go 8-4 to accomplish the first, and could achieve the second with another victory or a loss by St. Louis. 
 ''I don't think you settle for anything,'' Wagner said. ''You settle for winning every game.'' 

INSIDE PITCH
 The Mets set a franchise record for season attendance, breaking the previous mark, 3,047,724, set in 1988.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Glavine (14-6) went eight innings last night, allowing four hits and two runs, to earn the 289th victory of his major league career. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); FLORIDA MARLINS (83%) New York Mets; Florida Marlins

PERSON: Ben Shpigel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



427 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Paulson Spends Much of Debut on World Stage Defending the U.S. 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: HANGZHOU, China, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
In his debut on the international stage, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. faced three days of criticism and concern that the United States' fiscal and current-account deficits were casting a shadow over the global economy. 
 The issue of ''global imbalances'' came up again and again in Singapore in the language of speaker after speaker, as well as in the communique of the Group of 7 as its members conferred at the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
 Mr. Paulson, who arrived in Hangzhou on Tuesday to meet local entrepreneurs before traveling to Beijing on Wednesday, did not seem bothered by the criticism. Economic relations between countries are ''never easy,'' he said Monday. 
 In office a little more than two months, Mr. Paulson gamely made the arguments in response. He said the current-account deficit -- nearly 7 percent of the United States economy -- was a sign of strength, not weakness, because American consumers were buying global goods and keeping the world prosperous. 
 While Mr. Paulson acknowledged to reporters that the United States had room to improve, he saw its deficits as part of a bigger picture and part of a problem of imbalances in other countries. 
 ''The U.S. has for a good number of years now been growing much faster than the major developed trading partners, Europe and Japan,'' he said, suggesting that as a faster-growing country, the United States would import more. ''We've got a low savings rate, and it is a problem in the U.S.'' He also said the United States could ''do more on deficits.'' 
 But he said that for the imbalances to ease, Japan, China and Europe had to ''get the kind of growth on the consumption side that's going to make a difference.'' 
 He refused to blame the policies of the Bush administration for the global problems. The United States is able to borrow heavily from around the world, he said, because investors regard United States debt instruments as secure and United States policies, like maintaining tax cuts, as sound. 
 As for the nation's budget deficit, Mr. Paulson said it was coming down, citing recent revenue figures. For the future, he promised that he would personally help the Bush administration tackle the exploding costs of Medicare, Social Security and Medicaid in the next two years. 
 And to those in Singapore who said the United States was saving too little, Mr. Paulson said China was saving too much. 
 He did not say any of these things in a combative way. He sought to parry the criticism of American policies by suggesting that all countries, not just the United States, needed to put their houses in order. 
 Others echoed that theme, as when Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, said at a news conference that all the participants in Singapore had ''homework'' to do to avert threats to the world economy. 
 The homework that Europe needs to do, Mr. Paulson said, is structural reform, like lifting regulations, taxes and labor restrictions that will allow business to grow and import more.
 His prescription for China was similar. In addition to saving less and consuming more, Mr. Paulson said, China needs to deregulate its economy and, most important, let the value of its currency fluctuate against the dollar and the euro, so that a new balance could be struck in which Chinese exports are more expensive and China imports more. 
 In addition to criticism of the United States current account and budget deficits, Mr. Paulson heard complaints about American trade policies and Washington's responsibility for disputed practices at the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. 
 By all accounts, Mr. Paulson, who took office in July, moved comfortably in Singapore. Many of his counterparts were friends from his years as the head of Goldman Sachs. 
 He also seemed to understand that when representatives of 184 countries get together, criticism of the United States is often what most of them can agree on. This time the criticism seemed especially focused, but at the same time a main worry was that the United States economy might slow, imperiling the future for everyone else. 
 ''I am not looking for any immediate solutions or quick fixes to any particular economic issue,'' Mr. Paulson said in Singapore. ''I'm looking to set a tone and an expectation of working through issues and making progress.'' 
 On trade, the Suntec Center in Singapore, where thousands of officials gathered, echoed with calls for leadership to revive the world trade negotiations that collapsed this summer. But most delegates aimed their appeals at the United States, over its refusal to offer more concessions to revive the talks. 
 Even a revolt among board members at the World Bank over the anticorruption campaign of its president, Paul D. Wolfowitz, reflected many bank officials' resentment at President Bush for choosing Mr. Wolfowitz, an architect of the Iraq war, to lead the institution.
 A leader in the fight against Mr. Wolfowitz's policies, for instance, was a close associate of Gordon Brown, the British chancellor of the exchequer and a likely successor to Prime Minister Tony Blair. Bank officials said Mr. Brown seemed to be trying to show that, presumably unlike Mr. Blair, he could stand up to Washington. 
 But Mr. Paulson did leave with a major victory. The Singapore gathering demonstrated that the United States had successfully rallied the world's economic players around a policy of trying to expand China's influence in the institutions that oversee the world economy, like the International Monetary Fund, and in pressing China to be a more responsible player on economic issues.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., left, and Xi Jinping, the Zhejiang Province Communist Party secretary in Hangzhou, China, yesterday. (Photo by Eugene Hoshiko/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (65%); MEDICARE (60%); MEDICAID (58%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (55%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Economic Conditions and Trends; Savings; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Currency; Taxation; Labor; International Trade and World Market; International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) Group of Seven; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Monetary Fund; European Union

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%); XI JINPING (79%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (55%) Steven R Weisman; Henry M Jr Paulson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (72%) EAST CHINA (90%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) China; Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



428 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1842 words

HEADLINE: DOUBTS INCREASE ABOUT STRENGTH OF IRAQ PREMIER 

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Reporting was contributed by David E. Sanger in Washington, Abdul Razzaq al-Saiedi and Khalid al-Ansary in Baghdad, Paul von Zielbauer in Taji and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times in Falluja.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Senior Iraqi and American officials are beginning to question whether Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki has the political muscle and decisiveness to hold Iraq together as it hovers on the edge of a full civil war.
 Four months into his tenure, Mr. Maliki has failed to take aggressive steps to end the country's sectarian strife because they would alienate fundamentalist Shiite leaders inside his fractious government who have large followings and private armies, senior Iraqi politicians and Western officials say. He is also constrained by the need to woo militant Sunni Arabs connected to the insurgency.
Patience among Iraqis is wearing thin. Many complain that they have seen no improvement in security, the economy or basic services like electricity. Some Sunni Arab neighborhoods seem particularly deprived, fueling distrust of the Shiite-led government. 
 Concerns about the toughness of the new government seemed reflected in President Bush's comments when he met Tuesday with Iraq's president, Jalal Talabani. Mr. Bush said he wanted Iraqis to know ''that the United States of America stands with them, so long as the government continues to make the tough choices necessary for peace to prevail.'' 
 Mr. Maliki, a conservative Shiite, took office in May. A senior American diplomat here said the White House still had confidence in him, mainly because ''he has articulated goals for Iraq that make sense to us.'' 
 Bush administration officials have repeatedly cautioned that Mr. Maliki needs more time. ''This is a national unity government of many, many moving parts,'' said the diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''He has got to negotiate as he goes.'' 
 But diplomats who deal with the Bush administration on Iraq issues, and recently departed officials who stay in contact with their colleagues in the government, say the president's top advisers have a far more pessimistic view. 
 ''The thing you hear the most is that he never makes any decisions,'' said a former senior official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss internal deliberations. ''And that drives Bush crazy. He doesn't take well to anyone who talks about getting something accomplished and then refuses to take the first step.''
 American officials here say they do not intend to let Mr. Maliki fail and are helping him in a variety of ways. For example, to bolster Iraqis' confidence, American generals are spending money on quick reconstruction projects like trash pickup as the military goes through troubled neighborhoods of Baghdad. 
 The embassy has advisers who work closely with cabinet ministers and has deployed hundreds of Americans to seven provinces to help Iraqi officials build up the government's political and economic strength. A senior envoy said the biggest effort was simply ''Diplomacy 101'' -- insisting to Iraqi leaders that they resolve their differences.
 But increasingly, Iraqi and Western officials say the unity government is one in name only, with the political parties representing different sects and ethnicities constantly at odds, undermining Mr. Maliki's ability to build consensus. 
 While the United States has military might and political influence, it must rely on the Iraqi government to reach out to the country's political and religious leaders. Trying to placate everyone has kept Mr. Maliki from being able to offer amnesty to Sunni insurgents or forcefully disarm Shiite militias, officials say.
 The main Shiite bloc itself is deeply divided, depriving the prime minister of crucial support. So he relies on Moktada al-Sadr, the Shiite cleric who commands the powerful militia called the Mahdi Army, for political backing. The militia has been blamed by many Sunni Arabs for sectarian killings. 
 To ensure that the minority Sunni Arabs remain involved in the government, Mr. Maliki finds himself compromising on issues like cabinet appointments with conservative Sunni parties that have occasional contact with nationalist guerrillas.
 ''I think he has said good things, but in practice there has been no change,'' said Mahmoud Othman, an independent Kurdish legislator. ''The security situation is deteriorating and violence is getting worse. He has done nothing against militias. At the same time, the reconciliation dialogue is not moving forward. It doesn't look good, the prospects for the government.
 ''I thought he'd be stronger, but he looks weak,'' Mr. Othman said. ''He feels frustrated because nobody's cooperating with him.''
 The same sentiments are heard in the streets of the capital.
 ''There's no security, no job opportunities, no services, nothing at all,'' said Muhammad Jabar Abdul Ridha, 18, a construction worker walking through downtown Baghdad on Tuesday afternoon. ''This government hasn't done anything better than the previous one.''
 While some officials in Washington say Mr. Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice still insist in staff meetings that Mr. Maliki must be given more time and support, there is a growing sense that he is not about to change his operating style. A former senior official said the big test would be whether Mr. Maliki could confront Mr. Sadr. ''If you don't do that, I don't know how he can succeed,'' the official said.
 The prime minister's aides declined repeated requests for an interview with Mr. Maliki, who emerged as a compromise choice for prime minister during a power struggle last spring in which the White House and Mr. Sadr backed different candidates. 
 Supporters of Mr. Maliki say it is too soon to judge his tenure. Any unity government requires compromises, they argue. ''He's been in office only a short time, and the size and number of problems from the former regime and former cabinets are huge,'' said Sheik Khalid al-Attiya, a deputy speaker of Parliament. 
 Mr. Maliki has made efforts to quell the Sunni-led insurgency, including reaching out to some Sunni Arab guerrilla groups, Iraqi officials say. That may help widen a rift in the insurgency between Iraqi nationalists and foreign fighters. Sheiks in rebellious Anbar Province announced last Sunday that 25 of 31 tribes in the province were ready to fight against Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia.
 Iraqi and American officials who have dealt with Mr. Maliki say he is much more blunt and expressive in meetings than his predecessor as prime minister, Ibrahim al-Jaafari, who leads Mr. Maliki's political party. Mr. Maliki is not given to diplomatic formalities and makes his views known, they say. At the same time, he likes to listen to a range of opinion -- often at the expense of making decisions, the officials say.
 Mr. Maliki acts as if he is backed into a corner these days, said a moderate legislator who recently spent two and a half hours in a private meeting with him.
 ''You were one of the hawks,'' the legislator recalled telling Mr. Maliki. ''Now you're one of the doves.''
 ''No, I'm still one of the hawks,'' the legislator quoted the prime minister as saying. ''I just need time.''
 Mr. Maliki's security plan for Baghdad, now the American military's main effort of the war, intentionally avoids direct confrontation with Mr. Sadr's militia, despite Iraqi Army generals' apparent willingness to attack the militia and despite growing violence by rogue militia elements. The plan, begun last month after an initial failed effort in June, involves military sweeps of violent neighborhoods, generally after fighters have already fled.
 The murder rate has dropped in some neighborhoods. But the plan's effectiveness was called into question last week, when more than 165 bodies were found across Baghdad in four days. Shiite militiamen are the main suspects. The Baghdad morgue has said more than 1,500 civilians were killed in August, a 17 percent drop from July but higher than nearly all other months of the war. 
 Brig. Gen. Dana J. H. Pittard, assigned to help train Iraqi police and army units, said Iraqi Army commanders, who usually have fewer sectarian loyalties than the police, were ready to take on the militias but had not gotten approval from the government.
 ''There's this obvious question that the army guys are asking, about 'When are we going to get rid of the militias?' '' General Pittard said in an interview while meeting with American military advisers at a base in Taji. ''If you talk to the leaders of the Iraqi Army, they'll say, 'We need to be given an order to disarm the militias.' ''
 Last month, after American and Iraqi soldiers attacked a militia safe house in the Sadr City neighborhood of Baghdad, the prime minister denounced the action and promised compensation to families of Iraqis killed or wounded in the assault.
 Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, the second-ranking commander in Iraq, said American and Iraqi generals were waiting for Mr. Maliki to find a political solution to the militias.
 ''How long will that process take?'' he said. ''I don't know.''
 Mr. Maliki has little obvious leverage over Mr. Sadr, who controls at least 30 seats in Parliament and six ministries, making him one of the most powerful figures in the government. Mr. Sadr has no intention of disbanding the Mahdi Army, because it is now part of the government, said Bahaa al-Aaraji, a senior legislator allied with him.
 ''They are just volunteers defending their country,'' Mr. Aaraji said.
 Mr. Maliki is also tiptoeing around other powerful Shiite leaders with militias. Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, the head of the Parliament's Shiite bloc, has ignited a political firestorm by calling for the legislature to approve a mechanism to create autonomous regions. Many are opposed, and the move threatens to splinter the government. But rather than rein Mr. Hakim in, Mr. Maliki has kept quiet.
 As a centerpiece of his reconciliation project to end the Sunni insurgency, Mr. Maliki wants to forge an amnesty policy that would draw into politics some militant Sunni Arabs and former officials from Saddam Hussein's Baath Party, Iraqi politicians say. 
 But the proposal has been attacked by hard-line Shiites like Mr. Hakim, who is opposed to leniency for killers of Iraqis, and American politicians outraged at the idea of amnesty for those who have attacked American troops.
 That could doom Mr. Maliki's plan, said Ayad Jamaladin, a moderate Shiite legislator on the government's reconciliation committee.
 ''Innocent people don't need amnesty,'' he said. ''Guilty people need amnesty.''
 Some conservative Sunni leaders are also resisting Mr. Maliki's efforts. Politicians in Baghdad and tribal sheiks in restive areas insist that he meet a long list of demands that includes releasing all detainees and setting a timetable for the withdrawal of American troops. Many Sunnis also fear that Mr. Maliki is beholden to Iran, and his trip there last week further stirred concerns.
 ''With whom should we reconcile?'' asked Sheik Muhammad Saleh al-Bajari, a spokesman for tribes in Falluja, the Sunni Arab stronghold. ''With those who brought the occupier and killed and destroyed the future of this country?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, at a reconciliation session. (Photo by Johan Spanner/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki met in August with hundreds of tribal leaders to seek their support. (Photo by Max Becherer/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RELIGION (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Shiite Muslims; Sunni Muslims

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (97%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); JALAL TALABANI (58%) Nuri Kamal Al- (Prime Min) Maliki; Edward Wong; George W (Pres) Bush; Peter W (Lt Gen) Chiarelli

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (97%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



429 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Sudan's Leader at Odds Over Sending U.N. Troops to Calm Darfur 

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
President Bush challenged world leaders on Tuesday to overcome Sudan's unwillingness to let United Nations peacekeepers into Darfur, but Sudan's president reiterated his objection to any forces other than those from the African Union.
 ''If the Sudanese government does not approve this peacekeeping force quickly, the United Nations must act,'' Mr. Bush said in a speech to delegates of the General Assembly. At stake, in addition to the lives of people in Darfur, he said, was ''the credibility of the United Nations.''
 Mr. Bush also announced the appointment of Andrew S. Natsios, a former administrator of the Agency for International Development, as special envoy for Darfur. 
 Sudan's president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, responded defiantly to Mr. Bush, telling a news conference that there was no possibility he would accept United Nations troops. ''We, under all conditions, totally reject a transition from the African Union force to a U.N. force,'' he said.
 The Security Council last month authorized formation of a force of 22,000 soldiers and police officers under United Nations command to take over patrolling Darfur from the underfinanced and poorly equipped troops from the African Union, which has admitted its inability to curb the violence in the ravaged region.
 The United States circulated a new draft resolution here on Tuesday that would extend a separate United Nations force now finishing its work in southern Sudan for six months to help a new force in Darfur.
 More than 200,000 people have died in Darfur and 2.5 million have been forced from their homes in a campaign that the United Nations calls the worst human crisis and the Bush administration labels genocide.
 Mr. Bashir suggested that while he was adamant about barring the United Nations, he would consider a continuation of the African Union force, whose mandate expires this month, with added logistical and equipment help from the outside.
 The African Union's peace and security council is to meet here on Wednesday and is expected to take up a proposal to extend the force for three months. The United States and Denmark have organized a meeting of foreign ministers to discuss Darfur on Friday.
 Mr. Bashir has even threatened to attack United Nations forces if they try to enter Sudan. 
 The resolution only ''invites the consent'' of the Sudanese government to the new force, but United Nations officials argue that they would be unable to persuade countries to contribute soldiers to a mission that did not have the cooperation of the host country.
 Much of the violence against black African villagers in Darfur has been attributed to government-armed Arab militias known as the janjaweed, but Mr. Bashir said that the instigators were foreign rebels, operating out of Eritrea and Chad, and that the Sudanese government was the victim.
 He also argued that the terms under which the United Nations force was being proposed matched those underlying the American-led force that invaded Iraq in 2003. ''The functions are a typical replica of the coalition forces in Iraq, the same competencies, the same mandate,'' he said.
 Increasingly defiant under questioning, Mr. Bashir alleged that the reports of deaths and displacements in Darfur were ''fictions'' spread by international aid groups and Jewish organizations to raise money to benefit Israel.
 Commenting on the international campaign that has arisen to try to end the violence in Darfur, Mr. Bashir said, ''Those who made the publicity, who mobilized the people, invariably are Jewish organizations.''
 Opening the session on Tuesday morning, Secretary General Kofi Annan, who retires on Dec. 31, bid farewell with a somber look at the world that focused on the Middle East and Africa, his home continent.
 ''Sadly,'' he said, ''once again the biggest challenge comes from Africa, from Darfur -- where the continued spectacle of men, women and children driven from their homes by murder, rape and the burning of their villages makes a mockery of our claim, as an international community, to shield people from the worst abuses.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan, speaking yesterday at the General Assembly, again objected to United Nations forces in Darfur. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%) United States International Relations; Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); AFRICAN UNION (93%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) United Nations; African Union

PERSON: Warren Hoge; George W (Pres) Bush; Omar Hassan Al- (Pres) Bashir; Andrew S Natsios

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); ERITREA (79%) Sudan; Darfur (Sudan)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



430 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: No Cutback Likely in U.S. Troop Levels for Iraq Before Spring, Top Regional Commander Says 

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The top American commander in the Middle East said Tuesday that more than 140,000 soldiers would probably be needed in Iraq at least until spring because of continuing sectarian violence and the need to secure Baghdad.
 ''I think that this level probably will have to be sustained through next spring, and then we'll re-evaluate,'' the commander, Gen. John P. Abizaid, told reporters at a breakfast round table.
He called current force levels ''prudent,'' but added: ''We'll bring in more forces if we have to. By the way, if we can send more forces out, we'll do that as well.'' He acknowledged that the military, after five years of war waged in Afghanistan and Iraq, would be hard pressed to come up with more troops. 
 Pentagon officials have said previously that the current level, about 144,000 troops, was likely to be maintained through the end of the year unless security improved. General Abizaid's comments were the first indication that senior commanders believed reductions were very unlikely until well into next year.
 The violence in Iraq and the shortcomings of the fledgling government have repeatedly frustrated plans by the Bush administration and the Army to begin sustained reductions in American forces and hand off primary responsibility for security to Iraqi military and police units.
 The American complement fell to 127,000 earlier this year but rose again after Baghdad grew increasingly unstable. The force now includes 14 combat brigades and elements of two others, one of which is in the process of leaving Iraq, a military spokesman said.
 ''If you had asked me six months ago, I would have said that we would be down a couple of brigades from what we currently have,'' General Abizaid said.
 The situation in Baghdad, where thousands of American and Iraqi troops have been sent since July from other areas of Iraq after a surge in bombings and sectarian killings, has become ''slightly better,'' he said. But, ''Baghdad is not going to clarify itself in my mind militarily for a couple months.''
 Democrats responded to General Abizaid's remarks by suggesting that they were further evidence of the need to lay out a timetable for withdrawing American troops from Iraq, a step the Bush administration has said would embolden insurgents.
 ''What's the endgame? We need a deadline to force Iraqis to stand up for Iraq and get our combat troops home,'' said Senator John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat.
 Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat and a co-author of a resolution in June to begin withdrawing troops this year, said, ''We can fight for 10 years.'' 
 ''What we have to have is a police department that works, governing officials that work,'' he said. ''That's the challenge, and I don't see the administration talking about it. I don't see them putting up budgets that would fund that.'' 
 General Abizaid acknowledged that confidence among Iraqis in their police remained low and that it was important for the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki to purge the police of sectarian militias and to improve the economy.
 He said the insurgency still raging in Iraq represented less of a threat than the cycle of sectarian attacks by Shiites and Sunnis, which if not addressed by military, economic and political steps, could tear the country apart.
 ''The insurgency can't be fatal to Iraq in my mind, but I do believe that the sectarian tension if left unchecked could be fatal to Iraq, and the center of the problem is Baghdad,'' he said.
 The troop levels in Iraq are the highest they have been since they were increased temporarily to provide security for elections in January.
 General Abizaid also raised concerns about the increased fighting in Afghanistan, which has had intensified violence in the south, despite the presence of 21,000 American troops and another 19,000 from others countries under NATO command. That is the most American troops deployed to the country, even during the 2001 invasion, though an American military official said the number of American combat troops within the overall total was smaller than it had been in the past.
 ''I don't think the Taliban represents a mortal threat'' to the government of President Hamid Karzai, General Abizaid said. ''But certainly at this stage in the campaign we had hoped to be at a point where we were doing more development and less fighting.''
 General Abizaid warned that over the last year Pakistan had increasingly been used as a sanctuary by Taliban fighters, who cross the border to mount attacks against NATO forces, who are now deployed in the south. He said he was concerned about the recent promise of the Pakistani president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, to withdraw troops from western Pakistan in return for a promise by tribal leaders there to pursue Qaeda leaders believed to be hiding there.
 ''I'm very, very skeptical about this notion that people who have been harbored in the tribal areas are no longer going to be harbored,'' he said. ''I'll believe that when I see it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: More American soldiers were assigned to Baghdad during the summer after sectarian violence worsened. (Photo by Scott Nelson/World Picture Network, for The New York Times)
 Gen. John P. Abizaid, the top American commander in the Middle East, calls the size of the U.S. force in Iraq ''prudent.'' (Photo by Saurabh Das/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); WRITERS (71%); TRENDS (68%); AL-QAEDA (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; Terrorism; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Taliban; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: JACK REED (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) David S Cloud; John P (Gen) Abizaid

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%) Iraq; Afghanistan; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



431 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Federal Judges Take Steps To Improve Accountability

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The federal judiciary's top leadership responded Tuesday to criticism from Congress and elsewhere about asserted lapses in judicial ethics by announcing several steps aimed at enhanced self-policing and greater public accountability.
 All federal judges below the Supreme Court level will be required to install ''conflict checking'' software on their computers to avoid unwittingly participating in cases in which they have a financial interest. Such software has recently become available but is not being used widely by federal judges, said Judge Thomas F. Hogan, who leads the executive committee of the Judicial Conference of the United States, which took the action at its semiannual meeting at the Supreme Court.
The conference, a group of 27 judges led by the chief justice of the United States, sets policy for the federal courts, but its jurisdiction does not extend to the Supreme Court. 
 The conference also adopted a policy on the attendance by federal judges at educational seminars sponsored by outside groups, the source of considerable controversy in recent years.
 Judges will be prohibited from accepting reimbursement for attending a private seminar unless its sponsor has filed a public disclosure statement on the content of the program and all sources of financing. Judges will have 30 days to report their attendance at such seminars, and both the judges' and the seminars' reports will be available on judicial Web sites. The policy does not apply to bar association activities.
 Federal judges have been criticized for attending expenses-paid seminars on economic and environmental issues sponsored by business-oriented groups that oppose much government regulation. Since 2000, bills have been introduced in Congress to ban judges' attendance at private seminars. 
 The conference has opposed the legislation as raising concerns of free speech and the separation of powers. In 2001, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist denounced it in a speech as ''antithetical to our American system.''
 Douglas T. Kendall, a leading critic of judges' attendance at private seminars, called the new policy ''a dramatic change for the better.'' 
 Mr. Kendall, executive director of Community Rights Counsel, a public policy group here, has pursued the issue for years, at one point publicizing the names of more than 200 judges who had taken trips sponsored by business interests. In an interview on Tuesday, he said the new policy was a ''very positive development that should have a significant effect on this practice.''
 Separately on Tuesday, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. endorsed a report proposing improvements in the handling of individual complaints against federal judges under the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act of 1980. The report was the product of a six-member committee, led by Justice Stephen G. Breyer, that Chief Justice Rehnquist set up two years ago.
 The 1980 law established a complex and decentralized system for dealing with complaints from members of the public that a judge had ''engaged in conduct prejudicial to the effective and expeditious administration of the business of the courts.'' Complaints are initially reviewed by each federal circuit's chief judge, who has considerable discretion in how to proceed.
 Justice Breyer's committee found that while the bulk of routine complaints, about 700 a year, were handled properly, there was an ''error rate'' of nearly 30 percent in nonroutine cases, those in which complaints against judges had attained some degree of public visibility. That error rate was ''far too high,'' the report said in recommending various steps for dealing with the problem.
 One proposal was to encourage chief judges to refer sensitive cases to another of the 13 federal circuits. Others dealt with better education and training for the chief judges, who serve seven-year terms and thus may encounter only a handful of serious complaints in their tenure.
 With Justice Breyer by his side, Chief Justice Roberts briefed reporters on the 183-page report, describing it as a ''very important step on the judiciary's behalf in responding to criticism.''
 With some members of Congress calling for an inspector general to police the judiciary, many federal judges have grown increasingly concerned about the judiciary's public image and what they perceive as threats to the tradition of judicial independence. Earlier this year, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg called the independent counsel proposal ''a really scary idea.''
 A clear if unspoken theme of the presentation on Tuesday was that judges were capable of policing themselves. Referring to Congress, Judge Hogan told reporters, ''I would hope they would let us handle our own matters.''
 Justice Breyer described his committee's work as a ''direct response'' to criticism about lapses in judicial discipline. ''The criticism turned out to be constructive,'' he said, adding that while the system was not ''riddled with problems,'' it needed improvement to maintain public confidence.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. endorsed a report yesterday proposing improvements in the handling of complaints against judges. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (94%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JUDICIAL ETHICS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); LEGAL ETHICS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%) Courts; Judges; Ethics; Computers and the Internet; Law and Legislation; Courts

ORGANIZATION: JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES (83%) Judicial Conference of the United States

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (89%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%) Linda Greenhouse; John G Jr (Chief Justice) Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



432 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; GOLF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: An Irish Setting For the Ryder Cup 

BYLINE: By DAMON HACK

DATELINE: STRAFFAN, Ireland, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The first official Ryder Cup practice on Irish soil came complete with a fish story.
 Tiger Woods began his week on Monday at the K Club by fishing the River Liffey, which meanders 75 miles, including a scenic stretch of the Palmer course.
After a patient wait, Woods pulled a fish from the water, an achievement that became a quick talking point for the Irish Tourism Board, which did everything but weigh and interview the fish. 
 ''Tiger got a nice big trout,'' Damian Ryan, the director of golf for the Irish Tourism Board, said Tuesday in a telephone interview. ''A beautiful one.''
 Woods's catch was just one of several stories in what many have called the most important sporting week in the history of Ireland.
 After nearly 80 years of watching the Ryder Cup crisscross the Atlantic Ocean but never hit Ireland's shores, some 25,000 fans passed through the gates of the K Club on Tuesday just to be part of the tournament's opening warm-up session.
 ''I read somewhere where two billion people are going to have access to watching it on TV,'' said Paul McGinley of Ireland, referring to the start of Friday's play. ''That puts into perspective how big this is. This is a showcase for Ireland.'' 
 When McGinley walked to the first tee for his morning practice round with Darren Clarke of Northern Ireland, a cluster of fans around the tee box erupted in applause. Clarke's wife, Heather, died last month of cancer, and he is making only his second tournament appearance since. Team members for Europe and the United States have offered steady support to Clarke, who is debating whether to bring his two young sons, Tyrone and Conor, to the competition. 
 ''It's great for him to play and fantastic for him to have teammates and people around him,'' Woods said earlier this month. ''I still think it's going to be hard. Every player has his wife there. It's going to be hard, but he knows that.'' 
 Clarke said of his place on the team: ''I really wanted to be a part of it. I said it before and I'll say it again: I was desperate to be here.''
 The presence of Clarke, McGinley and Padraig Harrington of Ireland -- one-quarter of the European team -- gives life to the country's maiden Ryder Cup. At Dublin Airport, pictures of Harrington and faux green grass line a walkway of the Aer Lingus terminal.
 Replays of McGinley's winning putt in the 2002 Ryder Cup at the Belfry flash throughout the day on television.
 But it was the push of government officials, businessmen, including the K Club owner, Dr. Michael Smurfit, and the course designer, Arnold Palmer, who helped bring the Ryder Cup to Ireland.
 ''It took a long time to get here, and it was a great achievement to get it,'' Ryan said. ''It's the third-biggest event in the world, behind the Olympics and the World Cup. Our tourism business is big and now it will be showcased worldwide.''
 McGinley, who was born in Dublin and lives in Sunningdale, England, said he was astonished at the economic changes of his native soil.
 ''Ireland has grown unbelievably in the last 10 years,'' McGinley said. ''I can see how the economy has been brought on and the money people are making and the wealth and the price of houses and restaurants and the price of Guinness -- those things have changed over the years. That's something I'm very proud of in Ireland, where we've come from as a country. This is very much a cherry at the end of the cake, to put on an event of this size. It's a massive show.''
 There were plenty of viewers along the Palmer course on Tuesday to prove McGinley's point. Both teams have spent time signing autographs, chatting with spectators and enjoying the enthusiasm of a fan base luxuriating in its moment at the center of the golf universe.
 During Tuesday's practice round, McGinley noticed a course employee driving a golf cart filled with bottled water that was supposed to be stocked at the tee boxes.
 When the driver stopped to watch the group play the 10th hole, some of the more daring fans began to pluck some of the bottles away.
 ''The buggy had maybe 100 small bottles,'' McGinley said. ''He was parked beside the crowd, and here was the crowd one after another helping themselves to all of these bottles of water. The guy was totally oblivious to what was happening. By the time he pulled off, I'd say he had about 10 left. It can only happen in Ireland.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tiger Woods, with his swing coach, Hank Haney, at the fairway of the 14th hole on the K Club course, which was designed by Arnold Palmer. (Photo by Peter Morrison/Associated Press)Map of Ireland highlighting Straffan: For the first time, the Ryder Cup is being played in Straffan, Ireland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); ATHLETES (75%); CANCER (72%) Golf; Ryder Cup (Golf)

COMPANY: AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: K Club (Golf Club)

TICKER: AERL (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (91%) Damon Hack

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) IRELAND (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%) Straffan (Ireland)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



433 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Ad Sales Fall Short At Yahoo

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
Shares of Yahoo fell more than 11 percent yesterday after the company disclosed that it had sold less advertising in recent weeks than it had expected, largely because of a slowdown in automobile and financial advertising.
 Speaking at an investment conference held in New York by Goldman Sachs, Terry S. Semel, Yahoo's chief executive, said that while advertising revenue from those industries continued to grow, ''they're not growing as quickly as we might have hoped at this point in time.''
Yahoo said that it would still meet its financial goals for the third quarter, but that its profit and revenue would be toward the bottom end of its forecast range. 
 In July, the company said it expected third-quarter revenue -- excluding payments to companies that display its ads -- of $1.115 billion to $1.225 billion, and operating cash flow of $445 million to $505 million. The bottom of that range represents a 20 percent growth in revenue and a 16 percent growth in operating cash flow.
 That would represent a further slowing of Yahoo's growth. In the second quarter, its revenue grew by 28 percent. That was less than analysts had expected, causing the company's shares to slide. Yahoo's stock regained much of that loss over the last two months, only to plunge again after yesterday's disclosure. The shares dropped $3.25, or 11.2 percent, to $25.75 in Nasdaq trading.
 Investors worried that the problems facing Yahoo would affect other Internet companies as well. Shares of Google, the largest seller of online advertising, fell $10.88, or 2.6 percent, to $403.81. Shares in Aquantive, a large interactive advertising firm, fell $1.23, or 5 percent, to $23.37.
 Still, Wall Street analysts said it appeared that Yahoo's slowdown was not being felt elsewhere in the industry.
 ''Not everything is hunky-dory in Yahoo land,'' said Jordan Rohan, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets. ''Yahoo's audience is not growing as fast as it once did.'' 
 Mr. Rohan added that Yahoo appeared to have unusual turnover among its executives and that this might have hurt its ability to sell ads. He said investors were likely to be making a mistake if they saw Yahoo's ills as a bad omen for Google, and he estimated that Google's revenue would increase by 73 percent, to $1.82 billion, in the third quarter.
 ''The strength that Google is seeing outside the U.S. will more than offset any pockets of weakness, but I don't believe Google has as many pockets of weakness as Yahoo,'' Mr. Rohan said.
 In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday, Yahoo said it was ''too early to tell whether the advertising weakness is due to an economic issue or specific issues in advertisers' client businesses.''
 A Yahoo spokeswoman said that Mr. Semel and Susan Decker, the chief financial officer, who also spoke at the conference, were having private meetings with investors yesterday afternoon, and that neither they nor any other Yahoo executives would have any additional public comments.
 There have been some warnings that large companies in troubled industries were reining in their advertising budgets. In July, Digitas, an online advertising agency, said its earnings in the second half of the year would be less than expected because two of its major clients, General Motors and Delta Air Lines, were cutting back on their spending.
 John Aiken, an analyst with Majestic Research, said if there was any weakness in the market, it was in graphical display advertising, an area where Yahoo is the leader, and not in search advertising. 
 Mr. Aiken said his firm monitored the published advertising rates of Internet companies and had noticed the first declines in advertising rates in more than two years. He said that the growth in sales among online merchants had started to slow, and that this was likely to cause them to reduce their advertising budgets.
 But yesterday, executives at many other Internet companies said they had not seen the same trends that Yahoo was experiencing. 
 James E. Riesenbach, the chief executive of AutoByTel, said his site had seen no changes in spending by auto manufacturers or dealers, despite the financial ills of Detroit. 
 ''What I keep hearing is the auto manufacturers see the Internet as their most efficient sales channel, and they want to figure out how to spend more money online, not less,'' Mr. Riesenbach said.
 Speaking at the Goldman Sachs conference, Jeffrey Bewkes, chief operating officer of Time Warner, said ad sales at its AOL unit were ''very robust.'' And Andrea Riggs, a spokeswoman for IAC/InterActiveCorp, said the company had not seen a slowdown in sales at its Ask.com search engine unit. Most of Ask.com's advertising is sold by Google. A Google spokesman declined to comment on its sales.
 David Moore, the chief executive of 24/7 Real Media, which sells advertising for Web sites, said he had not noticed any softening of demand. Mr. Moore said it was possible that Yahoo, in its race to compete with Google, was simply overoptimistic in its forecasts and too eager to appeal to investors. 
 ''You are expected to grow every quarter,'' he said. ''There is a law of large numbers. It just gets tougher and tougher to please the Street.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); CASH FLOW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BONDS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SECURITIES LAW (69%) Computers and the Internet; Advertising and Marketing; Automobiles ; Stocks and Bonds; Banks and Banking; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); GOOGLE INC (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); AQUANTIVE INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Yahoo Inc; Goldman Sachs Group

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%)

PERSON: TERRY SEMEL (73%) Terry S Semel; Saul Hansell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



434 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENTS SPAR OVER IRAN'S AIMS AND U.S. POWER 

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
President Bush and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, separated by several hours and oceans of perspective, clashed at the United Nations on Tuesday over Iran's nuclear ambitions and each other's place in the world. 
 The two leaders bookended a long day of speeches at the opening of the General Assembly, but seemed to speak past each other as European and American diplomats continued the delicate work of setting terms for talks with Iran over its uranium enrichment program.
Speaking near the prime time of television viewing, Mr. Ahmadinejad, tieless in his trademark off-white sport jacket, accused the United States -- while for the most part avoiding naming it directly -- of hegemony and hypocrisy, and said it did not seem to have the political will or ability to halt violence in Iraq.
 He said that his nation was pursuing only a peaceful nuclear program, and that it was the United States that was using its nuclear weapons to intimidate the world. He said repeatedly that the United Nations Security Council was too beholden to the United States to control it. 
 ''Excellencies, the question needs to be asked, if the governments of the United States or the United Kingdom, who are permanent members of the Security Council, commit aggression, occupation and violation of international law, which of the organs of the U.N. can take them to account?'' Mr. Ahmadinejad said. 
 Speaking in the morning, Mr. Bush made a direct appeal to the Iranian people from the United Nations, telling them their leaders were misleading them about the United States' intentions while using their national treasury to sponsor terrorists and build nuclear weapons. 
 ''You deserve an opportunity to determine your own future,'' Mr. Bush said during a roughly 20-minute address during the opening session of the General Assembly. ''The greatest obstacle to this future is that your rulers have chosen to deny you liberty and to use your nation's resources to fund terrorism and fuel extremism and pursue nuclear weapons.''
 It was a rare moment of diplomatic theater between Mr. Bush and his leading Middle Eastern nemesis, a man whose nation is increasingly asserting itself in the region that lies at the heart of Mr. Bush's foreign policy, and whose nuclear program is a subject of deep concern to the American, European, Chinese and Russian officials trying to rein it in.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad had kept a low profile throughout the day, lending a sense of anticipation and buildup to an address that placed him, at least for a night, on an equal platform with President Bush.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad, who saw his speech last year as a defining moment on the world stage, has called the Holocaust a myth and regularly inveighs against Israel and Jews. His country is in violation of a United Nations deadline to halt its uranium enrichment program. 
 His repeated references to what he called a lack of ''legitimacy'' at the Security Council appeared to set the stage for Iran to argue that the Security Council has no authority to impose sanctions against Tehran.
 He referred to the United States as ''the occupiers'' when speaking of Iraq, ''the big powers'' when referring to the Security Council and ''masters and rulers of the entire world'' when referring to what he said was an imbalance between world powers and other countries.
 He criticized America for not calling for a cease-fire during the Israel-Hezbollah war in Lebanon this summer. ''Apparently the Security Council can only be used to ensure the rights of the big powers,'' the Iranian president said. ''When the oppressed'' are targeted, he said, ''the Security Council must remain aloof and not even call for a cease-fire.''
 Despite anticipation that Mr. Ahmadinejad and Mr. Bush would perhaps have a chance encounter inside the United Nations complex, Mr. Ahmadinejad was not in the building for Mr. Bush's address and did not attend a luncheon given by the secretary general, Kofi Annan. 
 Mr. Bush made his remarks hours before Mr. Ahmadinejad addressed the General Assembly himself, creating an expectation of a robust war of words by day's end.
 In an address tailored for both international and domestic consumption, Mr. Bush reiterated his demand that Iran suspend its uranium enrichment but added, ''Despite what the regime tells you, we have no objection to Iran's pursuit of a truly peaceful nuclear power program.''
 It was unclear how many of Mr. Ahmadinejad's constituents were in a position to hear Mr. Bush's message, given tight state controls on media in Iran. Many residents have satellite dishes, but the government recently began a campaign to confiscate them; many also have access to the Persian-language broadcasts of Voice of America.
 Mr. Bush also defended his foreign policy, exhorting the world leaders in attendance to join with him in his goal of transforming the Middle East by pushing for democracy there. 
 ''From Beirut to Baghdad, people are making the choice for freedom,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And the nations gathered in this chamber must make a choice, as well: will we support the moderates and reformers who are working for change across the Middle East, or will we yield the future to the terrorists and extremists? 
 Aides said the speech was in essence a capstone to the series of addresses Mr. Bush has given over the last two weeks intended to refocus the nation's attention on the threats of terrorism and the administration's efforts to fight it.
 Speaking to what he called ''the broader Middle East,'' Mr. Bush said, ''Extremists in your midst spread propaganda claiming that the West is engaged in a war against Islam. This propaganda is false, and its purpose is to confuse you and justify acts of terror.''
 Mr. Bush also met with President Jacques Chirac of France, and they pledged to continue working together on Iran. Mr. Chirac played down comments he made Monday that were interpreted as a sharp break with Mr. Bush, when he indicated that talks with Iran could begin at the same time as the suspension of uranium enrichment, an action the United States demands as a precondition for talks.
 Still, in a sign of the uphill battle that is facing the United States as it tries to hold together its coalition seeking to curtail Iran's nuclear ambitions, there was little talk of sanctions. Senior Bush officials had initially predicted a breakthrough on a sanctions resolution this week. 
 Mr. Chirac did not utter the word sanctions during his speech to the General Assembly, repeatedly emphasizing the need for continued talk as Iran continues to resist calls to suspend its program. 
 United States officials said they were willing to agree to a compromise in which a drive for sanctions at the Security Council would end at the same time the Iranians would end their enrichment program. But a senior Bush official cautioned Tuesday that it is far from certain whether Iran would agree. 
 ''We believe there's a debate going on within Iran,'' the official said, requesting anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. 
 Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, was supposed to arrive in New York for talks with the European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, on Sunday, and had still not arrived late Tuesday night.
 In his remarks, Mr. Bush did not mention Mr. Ahmadinejad by name, directing his criticism at Iran's ''leaders'' in general. White House officials disputed any suggestion that Mr. Bush had avoided using the Iranian president's name so as not to inflame the situation.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Jacques Chirac, listening to President Bush's speech, downplayed talked of division with Mr. Bush. (Photos by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A14)
PRESIDENT BUSH (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
 PRESIDENT MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (Photo by Mary Altaffer/Associated Press)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); HOLOCAUST (60%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (93%); JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); RICK PERRY (73%) Jim Rutenberg; Helene Cooper; George W (Pres) Bush; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad; Jacques (Pres) Chirac

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) Iran; France; Iran; Iraq; Great Britain; Iran

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006



435 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: The Hon. Mr. Tailgate, Gathering No Moss

BYLINE: By JOYCE WADLER

DATELINE: West Point, N.Y. 

 BODY:
IT is a tragedy of modern life that self-awarded titles rarely bring the proper respect. This is perhaps why, on a search for Commissioner of Tailgating Joe Cahn in the drowsy early morn, as the fog is just lifting from the Hudson, I encounter a peevish tone in a neighbor at an R.V. campsite at the United States Military Academy: there are other people here besides the commissioner of tailgating, he says. Were there dictionaries of tone, his could be defined more precisely: delusional, self-promoting.
 No matter. The commissioner, who for 10 years has made a career of traveling to football games, and whose work schedule, within little more than a week, will take him to Giants Stadium, a Redskins game in Maryland, and Florida International University and Dolphins games in Miami, is a happy man. He has parked his 40-foot Country Coach home -- the only home he has these days -- six feet from the Hudson in a game-day campsite for recreational vehicles. The circular bed of his winsome traveling companion, Sophie, is on the dashboard, so that she might also enjoy the view, although how important this is to a cat is hard to say. 
The cost of his night's stay in one of the loveliest spots on the Hudson: nothing. Now, at 7 (0700 hours, that is), the commissioner is preparing to do what he loves best: hang out in the tailgate zone, where someone always has coffee on, and it's always -- an occasional grouch excepted -- hello, neighbor. 
 The commissioner, who is 58 and so garrulous he could make the old Borscht Belt social directors look introverted, loves tailgating. He has a whole spiel about it, which he will recite whether you ask or not. Even now, the shad seem to be swimming frantically in the Hudson to get away from it: tailgating provides the largest communal backyard in America, the modern substitute for the stoop. Nobody is sitting alone at home here, surfing the Web -- everyone's talking. 
 On this day, a beautiful Saturday when Army will be playing Kent State, the tailgating will begin with a group of West Point social sciences instructors whose hospitality he has enjoyed in the past. The commissioner, whose name and title, like those of a bureaucrat of rank, are on his door, has put out coffee, juice and a fruit salad and is now preparing breakfast burritos. 
 And when the officers, including Capt. Eric Bjorklund, Maj. Jon Byrom and Lt. Col. Dan Evans, get the house tour, they will be dazzled: the 42-inch high-definition Panasonic! The floor space, when the R.V. is expanded to its 12-foot width -- more than some officers have! The closet holding the jerseys of every team in the N.F.L., plus T-shirts from the top-ranked college teams!
 ''What a wardrobe!'' one of the officers says. ''That's like the dream guy selection!'' 
 It may also be the dream guy life, for not only does the commissioner travel to any game he desires, he has thrown off the shackles of work by selling the cooking school he owned for nine years in New Orleans. Home on the road would, of course, seem to be an expensive life. His latest R.V. cost $225,000 used; expenses run about $30,000 a year. 
 How much did he get when he sold the cooking school? ''Less than $10 million -- way less,'' he says. ''Mid-six-figures.''
 That was in 1989. How has he supported himself since?
 ''I do windshields on the corner,'' the commish says, deadpan. ''I beg a lot. Sometimes I find corporate sponsors. This year Stanley thermoses is one of my corporate sponsors. It's a 1913 company. They have a green thermos. It's an interesting thing what's happening with tailgating: you've got brand-new products, then turn-of-the-century products like coffee thermoses to position, but it's not only for coffee. It's chili or soup or apple cider with ginger ---- ''
 Stop! No advertising in this space, pal! What does this outfit pay you?
 ''A little less than $5 million.''
 We get it: a lot less.
 ''I also have the Hearth, Patio and Barbecue Association. There's also the Joe Cahn foundation. He's a very generous guy.''
 How often does he go to football games?
 ''What games?'' the commissioner asks. ''I didn't realize until five years ago there was a game. I thought everybody got up to go to the bathroom.''
 What is it that makes a man forsake the pleasures of annual evaluations from the boss, property taxes and lawn work? For Commissioner Cahn, it is that old American dream of freedom and a television show of one's own, an on-the-road life sort like that of his hero, Charles Kuralt, but with cooking. 
 And the commissioner, who grew up in New Orleans, has always been a creative thinker. When his high school band instructor punished him and a few pals by requiring them to write a 3,000-word essay on a musical theme, he brought in three pictures because -- you see it coming? -- a picture is worth a thousand words. By his late 20's, he had had 35 jobs, not counting horse and buggy driver. His parents have been counting.
 In 1980, he opened the New Orleans School of Cooking and the Louisiana General Store in a shopping center, where students learned to cook four Louisiana dishes in three hours, sat down for a meal, then went out to the shop and bought stuff. There was a marriage to Karen Humphries, a nurse, that lasted 11 years. A year after their divorce, in 1996, Mr. Cahn hit the highway, visiting each of the 29 N.F.L. stadiums his first year. 
 He started as a football fan, but soon the games were supplanted by the happy sociability of tailgating and R.V. life. He tailgated at Nascar races and Jimmy Buffett concerts. Within a year he had sponsors, eventually pulling in Coca-Cola for a year. He got the latest R.V.'s on loan from Monaco Coach, even had a visit from Charles Kuralt. 
 The commissioner spends most of his driving time listening to audio books. Even now, to hear Mr. Kuralt describing his visit with him in ''Charles Kuralt's America'' -- that's pretty special. There has been talk of the commissioner's doing his own book, and nibbles from producers about a television show, but it remains just talk. Home? That would be wherever the R.V.'s are. 
 Doesn't it ever get lonely, he is asked after the morning's tailgaters have departed.
 ''Alone is a gift from God,'' the commissioner says. ''Only it's darn lonely.''
 He talks of what went wrong in his marriage. ''We were married to the business,'' he says. ''The fault probably lies with me. But when we divorced, we remained friends. 
 ''Three years ago she called me and said she found somebody, and she asked me to walk her down the aisle. It lasted two years. I've always waited, because I knew we were going to get back together. I'm a Disney character: I believe in happily ever after. I was the Eighth Dwarf: Hungry.''
 He wanted to get back with her, but walked her down the aisle. Did that hurt? 
 Certainly, the commissioner says. But if you cut out ego and accept that you can control only what you can control, it helps. ''I've learned a lot from audio books as I travel,'' he says. 
 His instincts proved right: the commissioner and his ex plan to remarry in a year. He will cut back his tailgating to four months a year, and his bride will join him for the occasional weekend. 
 It is now 1200 hours. The West Pointers who have tailgated with the commissioner have invited him to join them and their families for jambalaya on a hill overlooking the stadium. ''Tactical tailgating,'' an officer called it at breakfast. ''The high ground has been secured.'' Maj. Spencer Clouatre, an economics instructor from St. Amant, La., who met the commissioner at a game in 2005, has been cooking for hours. 
 The commissioner finds the tote bag printed with his name and title and a few lines in tribute to his spiritual hero, Mister Rogers, which so beautifully capture the essence of tailgating: ''It's a beautiful day in the neighborhood, a beautiful day in the neighborhood, do you want to be my neighbor?'' He fills the bag with what he refers to as his ''edible calling card,'' jars of spices with his picture on them created for him by Paul Prudhomme, a New Orleans buddy. 
 Then he heads to the small lake in front of the stadium, where he introduces himself by name and title to other tailgaters. No one has heard of him, but he hands out calling cards anyway. Then, breathing heavily, he makes his way up the hill to find Major Clouatre and the Tactical Tailgating Corps. 
 When they spot him, they call and wave. There's no mistaking their tone: ''Joe Commish whatever you want to call yourself, come on up and join the party.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: NO PASSING -- R.V. parks are a magnet for Joe Cahn, the self-styled commissioner of tailgating: a journey of just over a week took him from West Point, bottom left, to Dolphin Stadium, left. His traveling companions include sports-team caps and Sophie the cat. (Photos by Above and below, Cindy Karp for The New York Times
 left, Suzy Allman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); ARMIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (60%) Football; Recreational Vehicles

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (83%); FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (56%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%)

PERSON: Joe Cahn; Joyce Wadler

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



436 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 857 words

 BODY:

AUDITORS TURN AGAINST INTERIOR -- Four government auditors who monitor leases for oil and gas on federal property say the Interior Department suppressed their efforts to recover millions of dollars from companies they said were cheating the government. Many of the accusations appear in four lawsuits unsealed in Oklahoma. [Page A1.] 


JAPAN'S FEARS ABOUT QUALITY -- A recent surge in recalls of defective products has set off national hand-wringing and soul-searching in Japan. Even in noodle shops, the conversation turns to bruised pride and fears that Japan may be losing its edge. [A1.]

PROFIT SOARS AT MORGAN -- Morgan Stanley reported its third-quarter profit rose 59 percent, to $1.85 billion, from the quarter a year earlier, excluding a one-time charge in the 2005 quarter. The results were a further sign that changes put in place by the chief executive, John J. Mack, above, were taking root. [C13.]

HEDGE FUND SELLS ENERGY TRADES -- Amaranth Advisors, the hedge fund that lost $5 billion betting on natural gas prices, sold its book of energy trades to a partnership that includes J. P. Morgan and Citadel Investment Group, according to two people briefed on the negotiations. [C1.]

FED HOLDS RATES STEADY -- The Federal Reserve's policy makers voted to keep interest rates unchanged, committing themselves for the second time in six weeks to the proposition that the slowing economy will eventually dampen a still-troublesome inflation rate. [C1.]

DECISION LIFTS STOCKS -- Wall Street closed higher, holding on to its gains after the Federal Reserve kept short-term interest rates steady. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 72.28 points, to 11,613.19. [C13.]

TRIBUNE SHOWDOWN AVERTED -- A showdown between top executives of The Los Angeles Times and the newspaper's owner, the Tribune Company, has been temporarily averted. Now the Tribune board is expected to focus on another problem: a demand by the company's biggest investor to unravel partnerships with Tribune. [C1.]

AMERICAN-CHINESE DIALOGUE -- The United States and China, struggling to surmount the discord in their economic relations, established high-level teams in both countries to conduct a ''strategic economic dialogue,'' to be led on the American side by Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary. [C3.]

H.P. INVESTIGATION -- Internal investigators in the Hewlett-Packard spying case sought in January to meet with and describe particulars of the investigation to the chief executive and chairwoman, according to e-mail exchanges. [C3.]

AIR STRATEGY -- Gas guzzling and noisy, the MD-80 is the aging, seemingly indestructible jalopy of the skies. Allegiant Air, an upstart low-cost carrier based in Las Vegas, has built a quirky but profitable strategy around the plane. [C1.]

F.D.A. NOMINATION ADVANCES -- A Senate committee voted to approve Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach, the acting commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, to head the agency, but hurdles to his confirmation remain. [A27.]

DEFENDING CHEMICAL PLANTS -- After nearly five years of debate over whether the chemical industry should be required to better protect plants against a terrorist attack, a fierce struggle is going on behind the scenes in Congress to deal with one of the nation's most serious vulnerabilities. [A29.]

CHILD PORNOGRAPHY INITIATIVE -- As part of the battle against child pornography on the Internet, an initiative has begun that would allow sites offering illicit images of minors to be shut down or blocked. The initiative is expected to be announced at a Congressional hearing. [A22.]

PENNEY'S NEW LABEL -- J. C. Penney, which has created billion-dollar in-store brands like Arizona and St. John's, is making its biggest bet yet on a private label with the introduction of Ambrielle, a line of intimate apparel products set to reach stores in January. [C3.]

WAL-MART DRUG PLAN -- Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer and a lightning rod for criticism of employer health benefits, will announce an experiment to offer generic prescription drugs to its workers and customers at sharply reduced prices. [C4.]

ICAHN ELECTED TO IMCLONE BOARD -- Shareholders of ImClone Systems elected Carl C. Icahn and two associates to the board in the hope that the billionaire investor could help stabilize the company. Mr. Icahn called again for the ouster of the ImClone chairman, David M. Kies. [C6.]

'SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE' CHANGES -- NBC announced changes to its perennial late-night hit ''Saturday Night Live,'' paring the cast from the 16 performers of last season to 11 for the coming season. The cuts come as many institutions at NBC have been asked to find budget savings. [E3.]

ONLINE

NOTIONS ON HIGH AND LOW FINANCE -- Floyd Norris discusses the implications of the Amaranth Advisors hedge fund disaster in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

HOME AWAY -- From tropical storms to full-fledged hurricanes and tornados, managing a second home means dealing with whatever mother nature dishes out from afar. A report is at nytimes.com/realestate.

HELPING HUNGRY WORKERS -- Elite firms are balancing job demands by simplifying the quest for food. A report is at jobmarket.nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph shows J.C. Penney share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); AUDITS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS LEASES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); INFLATION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (68%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); AIRLINES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (82%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); CITADEL INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%); ALLEGIANT TRAVEL CO (50%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%); ALGT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (50%); NAICS481211 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); JOHN J MACK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



437 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Fed Decision Lifts Shares; Dow Up 72

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street closed higher yesterday, holding on to its gains after the Federal Reserve kept short-term interest rates steady, as expected, but left the door open to additional rate increases. 
 The Federal Open Market Committee of the Fed said it was seeing a continuing moderation in economic growth, partly reflecting the cooling of the housing market. It added that inflation pressures seemed likely to moderate over time, but said some inflation risks remained.
Stocks were already higher before the Fed announcement, rebounding from Tuesday's losses on news that Oracle's quarterly profit rose 29 percent and Morgan Stanley also had a strong quarter.
 The Fed's move ''sets a great stage for better market performance going into the end of the year, although the market may need to take a breather for the next day or two,'' said Steve Neimeth, senior portfolio manager for AIG SunAmerica Asset Management.
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 72.28 points, or 0.63 percent, to 11,613.19. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.87 points, or 0.52 percent, to 1,325.18, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 30.52 points, or 1.37 percent, to 2,252.89.
 Advancing issues led those declining by roughly two to one on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Bonds held steady, with the 10-year Treasury note yielding 4.73 percent. The price rose 1/32, to 101 4/32.
 Crude oil futures fell on a government report of increased supplies of crude and distillates, including heating oil. A barrel of light crude settled at $60.46, down $1.20, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Oracle rose $1.80, more than 11 percent, to $17.93, a 52-week high, after it said its first-quarter revenue shot up nearly 30 percent from the year-ago quarter.
 The investment banking firm Morgan Stanley rose 50 cents, to $72.35, after reporting a surge in its third-quarter profit thanks to stronger performance from its institutional securities group, surpassing analysts' expectations.
 Falling oil prices reversed early gains for BP, which dropped 20 cents, to $65. The company said yesterday that it planned to invest $3 billion in an Indiana refinery, increasing its production of motor fuels by about 15 percent.
 United States shares of Toyota rose 93 cents, to $107.29. Toyota is aiming to sell 9.8 million vehicles globally in 2008, said the company's president, Katsuaki Watanabe, as the booming Japanese company quickens its pace to overtake General Motors as the world's No. 1 carmaker.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BONDS (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); HEATING OIL (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Stocks and Bonds; Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); SUNAMERICA ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



438 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Many Theories on Income Inequality, but One Answer Lies in Just a Few Places

BYLINE: By HAL R. VARIAN. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
It is widely recognized that income inequality increased in the 1990's, but nobody knows quite why. Despite the lack of hard evidence, there are plenty of theories.
 One says the culprit was declining unionization. Another ties it to immigration and outsourcing. A third theory is that the demand for high-level cognitive skills has increased, while other explanations range from changes in executive compensation to the lack of policy initiatives directed toward the working poor.
All these factors may have contributed to the increase in income inequality, but there is little solid evidence about their relative importance. 
 Two University of Texas researchers, James K. Galbraith and Travis Hale, added an interesting twist to this debate in a paper, ''Income Distribution and the Information Technology Bubble'' (utip.gov.utexas.edu/abstract.html#UTIP27).
 According to Mr. Galbraith and Mr. Hale, much of the increase in income inequality in the late 1990's resulted from large income changes in just a handful of locations around the country -- precisely those areas that were heavily involved in the information technology boom.
 Their study used data on average income and population by county available from the Bureau of Economic Analysis, available at bea.gov/bea/regional/reis. Unlike most other studies, their work does not examine inequality among individuals, but rather differences in average income across counties.
 The authors compute a measure of inequality known as the Theil index, named for the econometrician Henri Theil. They present their results in two ways. The most visually arresting is an animated map at utip.gov.utexas.edu, which shows how per capita income by county has changed over time. The other depiction is a simple plot of the Theil index from 1990 to 2000. 
 The Theil index exhibits the standard shape found in other income inequality studies: income inequality was flat in the first half of the 1990's, then rose sharply in the second half. After 2000, the inequality index declined again.
 A big advantage of looking at county data is that it is possible to identify counties that contributed the most to the increase in income inequality from 1994 to 2000. It turns out that the five biggest winners in this period were New York; King County, Wash. (with both Seattle and Redmond); and Santa Clara, San Mateo and San Francisco, Calif., the counties that make up Silicon Valley. The five biggest losers were Los Angeles; Queens; Honolulu; Broward, Fla.; and Cuyahoga, Ohio.
 What do the counties in the first list have in common? Their economies were all heavily driven by information technology in the late 90's. This is true for the rest of the list of winners as well. Harris, Tex. (home to Houston and Enron); Middlesex, Mass. (home to Harvard and M.I.T.); Fairfield, Conn.; Alameda, Calif.; and Westchester, N.Y., were also among the top 10 income gainers in this period.
 The authors point out that half the 80 American companies in the CNET Tech Index are in those top 10 counties. Furthermore, when income inequality decreased after 2000, the income drop in the high-tech counties contributed most to the decline.
 New York, interestingly enough, showed large increases in per capita income both during the Internet boom and the Internet winter that followed.
 The implication is that the income gains of the 1990's associated with the technology bubble not only accrued to a relatively small number of people but also occurred in a relatively small number of geographic areas.
 To drive this point home, the authors asked what would have happened to the index if just 4 of the 3,100 counties in the United States exhibited average income growth in the technology boom years. The four are Santa Clara, San Mateo, San Francisco (all associated with Silicon Valley) and King County, Wash. (home of Microsoft).
 Note the remarkable difference in the Theil index computed with the adjusted growth rates for these four counties: If the per capita income in just these four counties had grown at the same rate as the average in the United States, income inequality across counties would have changed little in the late 1990's. In other words, only four counties drove most of the change across the 3,100 counties.
 The findings by Mr. Galbraith and Mr. Hale offer something to all sides in the debate. Perhaps options grants and initial public stock offerings had a lot to do with income inequality. Changing compensation patterns for technology-related skills could also be significant.
 But the biggest point that I take away is a simple one: there's no substitute for being in the right place at the right time.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Not So Disparate''By many measures, income inequality grew during the 1990's. But a study by two economists found that if the effect of income growth in four counties was discounted, income inequality would not be as pronounced.The graph shows the Theil index of income inequality (Adjusted*)*Assumes that income in the California counties of San Mateo, Santa Clara and San Francisco and King County, Wash., rose at the national average rate from 1994-2000.(Sources by James K. Galbraith and Travis Hale, University of Texas)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (71%); IMMIGRATION (57%) United States Economy; Income; Computers and the Internet; United States Economy

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (91%) University of Texas

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Hal R Varian; James K Galbraith; Travis Hale; Henri Theil

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



439 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Fed Holds Rate Steady At 5.25%

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's policy makers voted Wednesday to keep interest rates unchanged, committing themselves for the second time in six weeks to the proposition that the slowing economy will eventually damp a still troublesome inflation rate.
 The vote was not unanimous; there was one dissent. But the tone of the statement -- issued in the early afternoon, after a morning of debate and voting -- suggested that the policy makers were clearly satisfied with the decision they made at their last meeting, on Aug. 8, to halt a series of 17 consecutive rate increases stretching back two years. It also suggested that they would not change their view at their next meeting in late October, just before the midterm elections.
''The consensus among the policy makers that the pause was justified is perhaps stronger now than it was in August,'' said Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist for Citigroup. ''What has happened to the economy since then has in some small measure enhanced the Fed's credibility.'' 
 The stock market responded joyfully to the Fed's decision to keep the key lending rate that it controls at 5.25 percent. Stock prices often jump when a lid on rates makes stocks seem like a better investment than interest-bearing securities. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 72.28 points, or 0.63 percent, to close at 11,613.19, a little more than 100 points below its record high. 
 The Fed's statement Wednesday spotlighted the housing slowdown and also suggested that the risk of a rising inflation rate, while still present, had diminished. Since August, residential construction and home sales have deteriorated noticeably, and the pressure on inflation from rising energy costs has also eased, thanks mainly to sharp declines in petroleum and natural gas prices. 
 The policy makers took special note of the deterioration in housing and ''the reduced impetus from energy prices.'' Their statement suggested that the ''cooling of the housing market'' was the main reason for the moderation in economic growth. Indeed, the cooling was no longer ''gradual,'' as it had been in August. That adjective was eliminated from yesterday's statement -- a significant deletion in the Fed's carefully calibrated public statements.
 ''There is greater recognition at the Fed that the economy has slowed to below trend growth and this is precisely the time to sit on the sidelines and watch,'' said Laurence H. Meyer, vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers and a former Fed governor. ''The policy makers do not see much risk in waiting.'' 
 Ben S. Bernanke, who succeeded Alan Greenspan this year as Fed chairman, is betting that the slowing economy will moderate the annual inflation rate, which now exceeds the Fed's upper-end target of 2 percent. In taking this stance, Mr. Bernanke runs up against the view of some economists, particularly on Wall Street, that consumer demand is still strong enough to give business the power to raise prices.
 Higher rates are necessary, according to this view, to contain that pricing power and bring down the inflation rate. It is a view that one of the policy makers, Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, seems to share. Of the 11 policy makers who voted -- that is, all of the sitting Fed governors and 5 of the 12 bank presidents -- only Mr. Lacker dissented, as he had on Aug. 8. Instead of a continuation in the pause, he favored a quarter-point increase, the statement said.
 The Fed controls a crucial short-term rate, known as the federal funds rate, now at 5.25 percent. This is the rate at which banks and other financial institutions lend to each other. The rate also determines what these lenders charge for mortgages, auto loans and other consumer and commercial borrowing. Housing has been hurt by rising mortgage rates, but consumer spending, while weakening a bit in recent weeks, is still robust. Partly in response to this demand, the inflation rate has inched up this year.
 ''Creeping inflation,'' Albert Wojnilower, a senior economic adviser at Craig Drill Capital, calls it. ''It is very difficult to deal with creeping inflation, because there is no popular support for stopping it.''
 Acknowledging this view, the Fed's statement on Wednesday recognized that ''some inflation risks remain,'' repeating a phrase from the Aug. 8 statement. The policy makers also declared, as they did six weeks ago, ''that the extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information.''
 What the statement omitted was any reference to rising labor costs, and the upward pressure that might have on prices. For Mark M. Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, that was a significant omission. 
 ''All the wage data show an acceleration to one degree or another yet the policy makers do not acknowledge that in their statement,'' Mr. Zandi said. ''That is suggestive of a more dovish Federal Reserve. The small changes in this latest statement all suggest that the Fed will not be raising interest rates anytime soon. In fact, you can almost make the case that they are trying to drive expectations in the other direction.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. The market rose on the Fed decision to maintain rates. (Photo by Robert Caplin/Bloomberg News)(pg. C13)Chart: ''Federal Funds Rate'' shows Fed funds rate compared to Inflation since 2000. (Sources by Federal Reserve
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INFLATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (86%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TRENDS (70%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (64%); CONSTRUCTION (64%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%) Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



440 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Thailand Reinterprets the Rules of Democracy, Again 

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
The generals billed it as a pro-democracy military coup, and although they had ousted one of the most popular prime ministers in Thailand's history, most commentators here tended to agree on Wednesday.
 On Tuesday night, top military commanders deposed Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra in a nonviolent coup while he was in New York, concluding a debilitating political standoff that was increasingly dividing the country.
 On Wednesday, the coup leader, Gen. Sonthi Boonyaratglin, said that he had acted ''to bring back normality and harmony'' and that he intended to ''return power to the Thai people as soon as possible.'' 
 That, in so many words, was the hope of Thailand's elite, who had accused Mr. Thaksin of corruption and of destroying democratic institutions. But he was overwhelmingly supported by rural voters, who gave him Thailand's first outright majority in Parliament.
 The coup received the explicit endorsement of King Bhumibol Adulyadej on Wednesday, when he appointed General Sonthi to lead the governing council ''in order to create peace in the country.''
 For months, Mr. Thaksin had jousted with the king and blamed an unnamed ''charismatic figure'' for his troubles. As tension mounted, a member of the king's inner circle met with troops to remind them of their loyalty to the palace.
 The coup was unlikely to affect the foreign policy of Thailand, a quiet supporting player in America's effort to curb terrorism and a major economic partner after a strong rebound from the financial crisis of the late 1990's.
 But with the coup, Thailand became one more Southeast Asian nation that has reinterpreted democracy in undemocratic terms, either manipulating or sidestepping constitutional processes to achieve political ends.
 ''The crisis in the immediate term has been resolved,'' said Thitinan Pongsudhirak, director of the Institute of Security and International Studies at Chulalongkorn University.
 ''Thaksin is out of the picture for now,'' he said. ''We can move forward with political reforms. But in the medium and longer term he is still around and his supporters are still around. We have been put back at square one. We've got to get out of this vicious cycle of constitution, election, corruption and coup.''
 Until Tuesday, it had seemed that Thailand had left behind its long era of repeated coups, slowly consolidating constitutional rule over the past 15 years. In March, General Sonthi himself said, ''Military coups are a thing of the past.''
 Now both Thailand and the Philippines, the region's two exemplars of democracy, have ousted democratically elected leaders. 
 Other Southeast Asian nations are ruled with varying degrees of authoritarianism, while staying close to some rules of the democratic playbook.
 In a turnaround, it is now Indonesia that has the most thoroughgoing, though fragile, democracy, after 32 years of dictatorship under Suharto, who was ousted as president in 1998.
 Each nation argues that its departures from democracy are a necessary response to local conditions.
 Singapore, for example, cites its precarious position as a tiny mainly Chinese nation squeezed between much larger Malay neighbors, and its combustible mix of a multiethnic population.
 Myanmar, formerly Burma, says it must maintain its repressive military rule to keep ethnic tensions from bursting into a full-fledged civil war. But it is nevertheless going through the motions of democratic process, with plans to reopen a constitutional convention next month.
 Vietnam and Laos are thoroughly Communist nations, following what they call the democratic structures of regular parliamentary votes and five-year plans.
 The Philippines, like Thailand, has said that democratic processes have broken down and that only the military can clean house and set the country back on course.
 Calling Tuesday's coup a hiccup, Kavi Chongkittavorn, a political commentator at the daily newspaper The Nation, said: ''It was a necessary evil, if you look at it. There were no other options to end this political cul-de-sac.''
 But he conceded: ''It is a contradiction in terms to have a military coup that calls for political reform. That's the dilemma.''
 At a news conference, General Sonthi offered both good news and bad news for those who seek a quick return to democratic rule.
 He said he would choose an interim civilian prime minister within two weeks and then, ''We step out.''
 But he said that interim government would have the task of drawing up a new constitution, putting it to a referendum and then holding parliamentary elections, a process that would take well over a year.
 ''The foundation of the state has been shaken to its core during the last five to six years, so with or without a military coup it would have taken a long time to heal and to be re-established,'' said Surin Pitsuwan, a former foreign minister who is now in the opposition.
 By the time it is re-established, Thailand's political scene will have changed in unpredictable ways, analysts said.
 They said Mr. Thaksin himself was unlikely to return to Thailand in the near future. He could face lawsuits here, a trial and even prison on various charges of corruption.
 But he is a stubborn man, and his presence, even abroad, is likely to shadow Thai politics as it goes through its difficult transition.
 He still has powerful allies in Thailand, but the analysts said his party, Thai Rak Thai, or Thais Love Thais, could well disintegrate during the year ahead without the forceful leader who created it as a personal tool.
 One effect of his five years of dominance, though, is the absence of any obvious alternative to his political leadership. The main opposition party, the Democrat Party, has been notable in its inability to capitalize on Mr. Thaksin's difficulties.
 A main task of the interim government will be to heal the rifts Mr. Thaksin has created, avoiding vendettas that could devolve into what Mr. Thitinan called ''an endless revenge and recrimination cycle.''
 At the same time, he said, new governments should embrace one of Mr. Thaksin's positive legacies, a focus on the needs of the poor, with programs like village development funds, debt forgiveness and low-cost health care.
 These populist measures, however calculating and paternalistic, addressed long-neglected needs of the majority of the population.
 ''He did have a positive legacy with the grass roots,'' Mr. Thitinan said. ''The mistake will be to reject everything Thaksin did.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Military and police chiefs, including Gen. Sonthi Boonyaratglin, third from left, who led Tuesday's coup, at a Bangkok news conference yesterday. (Photo by Andrees Latif/Reuters)
 Thaksin Shinawatra, Thailand's deposed prime minister, flew to Britain from New York yesterday, a day after learning of the coup. (Pool photo by Johnny Green)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (94%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); HISTORY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ELECTION FRAUD (76%); CORRUPTION (74%); ETHICS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); TERRORISM (50%) Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat; Freedom and Human Rights; Ethics; Politics and Government ; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

PERSON: Seth Mydans; Thaksin Shinawatra (Prime Min); Bhumibol Adulyadej (King)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Thailand; Thailand

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



441 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Officials Narrow Investigation After Finding Bad Spinach

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Carolyn Marshall contributed reporting from San Francisco.

DATELINE: SAN JUAN BAUTISTA, Calif., Sept. 20 

 BODY:
The investigation into an outbreak of E. coli that killed one person and sickened more than 140 others both broadened and shrank on Wednesday, as more victims were reported and scientists zeroed in on the contaminated spinach that caused the illness. 
 In Washington, federal officials said that they had narrowed the focus of their investigation after health officials in New Mexico announced that they found the strain of E. coli responsible for the outbreak in an open bag of baby spinach in the refrigerator of a sickened woman.
That batch, under the Dole brand, was hailed as a ''smoking gun'' by California officials who have been frantically trying to identify the source of the infection, which has halted the state's spinach harvest and raised the specter of millions of dollars of agricultural losses. 
 ''We are working with industry in the State of California to come up with a way to get spinach back on the shelves that have not been implicated,'' said Dr. David Acheson, chief medical officer for the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition at the Food and Drug Administration. 
 By Wednesday, the bad batch had been traced to Natural Selection Foods, which recalled 34 brands soon after health officials announced the outbreak last Friday. 
 In a news conference here at Earthbound Farm, one of Natural Selection's best known brands, company officials confirmed that it had packaged the Dole brand found in New Mexico. But they said a preliminary test of facilities by a private laboratory had found that the contamination probably occurred in the fields. Tests cleared the plant, a company spokeswoman, Samantha Cabaluna, said. But Ms. Cabaluna cautioned that tests from the F.D.A. and the California Department of Health Services were not complete.
 But the news from New Mexico did little to address the source of the E. coli, which is found in mammals' intestines and can be spread via polluted irrigation water, raw animal droppings or unsanitary work conditions. Ms. Cabaluna noted the challenge of pinpointing the source, saying, ''there's a lot more space in the fields than in the processing plant.''
 The authorities traced the spinach to one of three counties -- Monterey, San Benito and Santa Clara, all south of San Francisco -- and investigators continued to prowl plants and farms looking for evidence of the bacteria, which can cause diarrhea, kidney failure and even death. 
 As of Wednesday, 146 people in 23 states had been sickened by E. coli from fresh spinach, with 76 requiring hospitalization, including 23 who have developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a serious kidney problem. 
 While federal and California officials seemed somewhat relieved by the day's developments, concerns continued to percolate in agricultural counties. In San Juan Bautista, about 90 miles south of San Francisco, where street signs are hand-painted and farms back into modern housing developments, residents said a serious farm disruption could shatter the economy.
 Few agricultural leaders were discussing economic damage, as spinach sat unpicked on thousands of acres, saying the health issues far outweighed their money woes. 
 But Bob Perkins, the executive director of the Monterey County Farm Bureau, said, ''We have to be able to assure the public that our product is safe in order to sell it.''
 ''If I can't do that,'' Mr. Perkins said, ''then I've got a tremendous problem.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); E COLI (90%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (90%); BACTERIA (90%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); MAMMALS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); FOOD RECALLS (73%); PRODUCT SAFETY (72%); EVOLUTION THEORY (71%); ANIMALS (70%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); IRRIGATION (50%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Spinach ; E Coli (Bacteria)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR FOOD SAFETY & APPLIED NUTRITION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%) Dole Food Co

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley; Carolyn Marshall

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); PARAGUAY (79%) California

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



442 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Fret That Quality Is in Decline

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Perhaps only in Japan could a television series like ''Project X'' have become one of the most popular TV shows. No, it isn't a science fiction thriller. It's about product quality.
 More specifically, it's about a bunch of corporate engineers who invented the hand-held calculators and ink-jet printers that helped turn this nation into an industrial powerhouse.
So it is little wonder that a recent surge in recalls of defective products has set off national hand-wringing and soul-searching here, in radio talk shows, on the front pages of newspapers and in the hushed corridors of government ministries. 
 Even in local noodle shops, the conversation turns to the bruised pride and fears that Japan may be losing its edge at a time when South Korea and China are breathing down its neck. 
 ''Craftsmanship was the best face that Japan had to show the world,'' said Hideo Ishino, a 44-year-old lathe operator at an auto parts factory in Kawasaki, an industrial city next to Tokyo. ''Aren't the Koreans making fun of us now?''
 ''It took us years to build up this reputation,'' Kazumasa Mitani, 32, a co-worker, chimed in. ''Now we see how fast we can lose it.''
 This, after all, is a country that has been obsessed with perfection. Tokyo's sprawling subway and train networks run like clockwork, accurate to the minute. Television factories assign workers with rags to wipe down every new set, lest a Japanese consumer find a single fingerprint and return it. In supermarkets, many apples and melons are individually wrapped in protective plastic foam.
 In the last two months, the national angst increased after large-scale recalls of defective products made by Toyota and Sony, the country's two proudest corporate names. In the United States, product recalls occur so frequently that most are barely noticed. But here, they have created something of a crisis in a country where manufacturing quality is part of the national identity.
 The fingers have no main culprit to point to. Some say young Japanese are too lazy. Others say American-style management is to blame.
 The spate of bad news has not stopped. Just this week, Sony suffered another blow when Toshiba announced that it was recalling 340,000 Sony-made laptop batteries, after last month's recalls of 5.9 million batteries. And Toyota, which has experienced a soaring number of recalls in recent years, said Wednesday that it would hire 8,000 more engineers to strengthen quality.
 Some here admit that Americans may find the fuss perplexing. But Japan is the country that elevated the American quality guru W. Edwards Deming to virtual sainthood and conquered global markets with its eminently reliable cars, cameras and computers. For a time, American and European executives even flocked here to learn Japanese quality-control concepts like ''kaizen,'' meaning ''improvement.''
 World-leading craftsmanship became so central to the nation's self-image that many Japanese seem to have trouble imagining their country without it. The recalls are discussed here in the same breath as Japan's rising rates of crime and juvenile delinquency and other signs that the country's tightly woven social fabric may be starting to fray. 
 In the news media, Sony's and Toyota's quality problems have frequently topped coverage of wars in Iraq and Lebanon. And Nihon Keizai Shimbun, the leading economic daily, began a front-page investigative series this month called ''Can Japan Protect Quality?''
 ''Toyota and Sony have been a wake-up call that something is amiss in Japan,'' said Takamitsu Sawa, an economics professor at Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto. ''Japan seems to have lost something important on the way to becoming a developed country, and many Japanese want to get that back.''
 One of those is Toshihiro Nikai, Japan's trade minister, who twice last month took unusually blunt steps in this nation that normally recoils from confrontation. He sent letters to executives from Sony ordering them to report on quality-control improvements after back-to-back recalls by Apple and Dell of faulty Sony-made laptop batteries. Sony promised to comply and diligently sent employees to receive the letters by hand. It was the first time such orders had ever been issued to Sony.
 ''This is very rare,'' said Atsuo Hirai, assistant chief at the trade ministry's information product safety section. Rarer still was the fact that a few weeks earlier, the transport ministry issued similar orders to Toyota.
 Hiroshi Okuda, the retired chairman of Toyota and elder statesman of Japan's business world, called on his countrymen to do more about what he saw as the declining competitiveness of Japanese manufacturing.
 ''Japan lacks a sufficient sense of crisis,'' he warned last month. 
 The sense of crisis has moved even into the classroom.
 In Japan's schools, once lauded for their hard-working students and sharp-penciled test takers, test scores have fallen recently below those of countries like Singapore, South Korea and Finland. Dozens of educators at elementary and high schools across Japan are sounding alarms about declining standards.
 At Ritsumeikan Elementary School in Kyoto, the aim is more discipline and memorization, so students now stand at attention every morning to recite in unison parts of ancient Confucian texts and other classics. They are timed to see how quickly they can regurgitate multiplication tables.
 ''More self-control leads to a better work ethic,'' says the school's principal, Hideo Kageyama, who has written more than 30 drill workbooks, which he said have sold four million copies since 2002. ''Our society's future is at stake.''
 To be sure, Japanese companies continue to dominate production of many high-tech products, from digital cameras and color copiers to solar cells and the delicate optics used to etch circuits onto most of the world's computer chips. And despite its problems, Toyota still appears on track to dethrone the flailing General Motors as the world's largest carmaker in the next year or two. 
 ''They'll learn from their mistakes,'' said Yuji Fujimori, an electronics analyst in Tokyo for Goldman Sachs.
 Still, Sony's problems have not been limited to batteries. The company worked furiously over the summer to resolve problems in production of its PlayStation 3, its widely awaited game console, which is due out in November. 
 ''If asked if Sony's manufacturing ability has declined, at this point today I have to say yes,'' said Ken Kutaragi, chief executive of Sony's video game division.
 Various reasons crop up as possible explanations for declining quality. Universities bemoan that new students are more interested in literature and the liberal arts than engineering. Applicants to engineering programs are down to 8.7 percent of all university applicants this year from 12.3 percent eight years ago.
 ''In the old days, there were a lot of students who wanted to join the front lines of manufacturing, and really gave it their all,'' said Chitoshi Miki, an executive vice president in charge of student education at the Tokyo Institute of Technology, one of the nation's top engineering universities. ''Now, no one even wants to break a sweat.''
 Others have begun to blame recent American-style management changes, like the end of traditional lifetime job guarantees. Fujitsu, the electronics maker, has backed away from basing salaries on individual performance, saying it hurt employee morale and undermined team work.
 As Japan wrings its hands, say some economists, Asian competitors have been closing in. Lee Kwang Hoon, an electronics analyst at Hanhwa Securities in Seoul, said that the recall of Sony-made batteries could offer an opportunity for the biggest Korean makers, Samsung and LG, to rival Sony in market share.
 ''The biggest change may not be that Japan has dropped in quality,'' said Masaru Kaneko, an economics professor at Keio University in Tokyo, ''but that Asia is catching up.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Tarnishing Japan's Image''A spate of consumer product defects have hurt Japan's image of quality.Matsushita2005Kerosene heaters are recalled after several cases of carbon monoxide poisoning.ToyotaJuly '06Japanese police accuse three Toyota executives of covering up vehicle defects over 8-year period.ToyotaJuly and Aug. '06Toyota under fire for growing number of recalls, which jumped 41-fold to 1.9 million last year from 2001 in Japan, and doubled last year, to 2.2 million, in the United States, compared with 2004.SonyAug. '06Dell and Apple recall 5.9 million laptops because Sonymade batteries overheated, in rare cases catching fire.SonySept. 6, '06Announces that manufacturing problems were slowing production of PlayStation 3, its widely awaited game console due out in November.CanonSept. 12, '06Says it will inspect 1.87 million copiers worldwide because of risks that some may catch fire.HitachiSept. 15, '06Sets up internal ''craftsmanship command post'' after blades fell off one of its turbines at a nuclear reactor earlier in the year.(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (84%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); QUALITY CONTROL (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); PRODUCT RECALLS (75%); TOYOTA RECALLS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (67%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (67%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (56%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (51%) Public Opinion

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (84%)

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (84%); 6502 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%) Japan; Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



443 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 818 words

PERSON: Joe Glazer

HEADLINE: Joe Glazer, 88, a Singer And Songwriter for Labor

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Joe Glazer, the singer-songwriter known as Labor's Troubador, who played cowboy tunes on a $5.95 mail-order guitar as a boy in the Bronx, then sang songs of solidarity on picket lines and union halls and once on the White House lawn, died on Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 88.
 The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, his wife, Mildred, said. 
First an employee of the textile workers union, then the rubber workers union, Mr. Glazer, a burly, affable man, marshaled his booming baritone and thumping guitar to rally union loyalists and sympathizers in almost every state and 60 countries. 
 Mr. Glazer, who called himself ''an agitator for all good causes,'' recorded more than 30 albums, wrote a book about labor music, recorded the songs of others and helped recruit a new generation of protest singers.
 In 1950, Mr. Glazer and the Elm City Four were the first to record a version of the anthem of the civil rights movement, ''We Shall Overcome,'' according to many sources. His version of the song (originally a folk song and then a Baptist hymn before he helped popularize it as a labor union theme) began ''I Will Overcome,'' Mrs. Glazer said.
 Other sources maintain that Mr. Glazer used the more familiar title, or something close to it, in the recording, made for a two-record 78-r.p.m. set called ''Eight New Songs for Labor.'' It was financed by the Congress of Industrial Organizations before it merged with the American Federation of Labor to form the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in 1955.
 He wrote his own best-known song, ''The Mills Weren't Made of Marble,'' in 1947. In waltz tempo, it tells of a millworker's dream of a happy heaven where ''nobody ever got tired and nobody ever grew old.'' It became so familiar a piece of Americana that in 1992, The New York Times called it an ''old folk song'' in an editorial about a museum's depiction of the harsh lives of textile workers in the 1800's.
 Mr. Glazer responded with a letter saying that usually a song is not deemed a folk song until long after the composer's death. He thanked the paper for ''a nice Labor Day present.''
 Joseph Glazer was born in Manhattan on June 19, 1918, the son of a tailor in the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. Growing up in the Bronx, he adored cowboy crooners like Gene Autry, and imitated them with his guitar.
 He graduated from Brooklyn College and was hired as a civilian radio instructor by the Army Air Corps after failing his draft physical. In 1942 he married Mildred Krauss, whom he had met at a camp in the Catskills where both were counselors. She said she was impressed by his leading the counselors in a strike.
 In addition to his wife, Mr. Glazer, who was not related to the folk singer Tom Glazer, is survived by his brother, Nathan, the sociologist, of Cambridge, Mass.; his sister, Gail Klebanoss of Verona, N.J.; his son, Daniel, of Northbrook, Ill.; his daughters Emily Glazer of Silver Spring, Md., and Patti Glazer of Asheville, N.C.; and four grandchildren.
 The newlyweds settled in Madison, Wis., where Mr. Glazer worked at a military airfield and did graduate work on statistical probability. He found his wife's labor economics courses more captivating, and switched to that field. 
 Mr. Glazer joined the textile workers as an assistant education director and seized upon his boss's suggestion to use a guitar to rally workers. He traveled widely and picked up the early version of ''We Shall Overcome'' from the celebrated Highlander Folk School in Monteagle, Tenn. It had borrowed the song from black tobacco union workers who sang it on a picket line in 1946.
 Mr. Glazer used it in organizing mainly white workers, in a film he made in 1950 called ''Unions at Work'' and on a record of his that year. The song's current version was written by Frank Hamilton, Guy Carawan, Pete Seeger and Zilphia Horton and was adopted by demonstrators in the early days of the civil rights sit-ins in 1960 and 1961.
 Mr. Glazer moved on to the rubber workers union in Akron, Ohio, where he was education director. He also performed for many liberal politicians, particularly Hubert H. Humphrey, then a Minnesota senator. In 1980 President Jimmy Carter invited him to play at the White House.
 He joined the Kennedy administration in 1961 as a labor information officer for the United States Information Agency, partly because he admired its head, Edward R. Murrow. In addition to explaining America's current events to foreigners, he was frequently sent to foreign countries to sing protest songs.
 Mr. Glazer resigned from the agency after the inauguration of Ronald Reagan and soon began composing songs, like ''Jellybean Blues,'' satirizing the new president.
 ''Protest songs use humor, they tell about terrible conditions, but you still have to be able to laugh and sing and tell a joke,'' he told The Times in 1981. ''You know, that's a very important thing -- life goes on.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary yesterday about Joe Glazer, a folk singer and songwriter, misstated the title of his best-known song, which he wrote in 1947. It was ''The Mill Was Made of Marble,'' not ''The Mills Weren't Made of Marble.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rally cry: Joe Glazer in 1981. (Photo by George Tames/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SONG WRITING (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); TEXTILES (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); US LABOR DAY (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); LYMPHOMA (56%); CIVIL RIGHTS (52%); ARMIES (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information; Music

Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Music

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



444 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: The Power Of an Image Drives Film By Eastwood

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Oscar season is only just getting under way, but on credentials alone a presumptive front-runner would have to be Clint Eastwood's ''Flags of Our Fathers,'' the World War II epic about the men who raised the flag on Iwo Jima, which began screening for selected journalists this week in New York.
 Mr. Eastwood's last two movies, after all, were ''Mystic River,'' which picked up best picture and best directing nominations in 2004, and ''Million Dollar Baby,'' which won in both categories in 2005. Paul Haggis, who wrote the shooting script for ''Flags of Our Fathers,'' also wrote ''Million Dollar Baby'' and was a co-writer of the Oscar-winning screenplay for last year's best picture, ''Crash.'' To top it off, the movie's producers include Steven Spielberg, whose battlefield decorations include Oscars for ''Saving Private Ryan'' and Emmys for the mini-series ''Band of Brothers.''
 Whether ''Flags'' ultimately connects will be up to the audience and Oscar voters. But it is already emerging as a candidate for best back story. 
 A big, booming spectacle that sprawls across oceans and generations, ''Flags of Our Fathers,'' which opens on Oct. 20, was anything but a simple undertaking. With much of film following the surviving flag raisers as they crisscross the country in the spring and summer of 1945 pitching war bonds for a government in desperate financial straits, it is neither a pure war movie nor, given its sweeping and harrowing combat sequences, merely a wartime drama. It examines the power of a single image to affect not only public opinion but also the outcome of a war, -- whether in 1945, in Vietnam or more recently.
 Above all it is a study of the callous ways in which heroes are created for public consumption, used and discarded, all with the news media's willing cooperation. And it is imbued with enough of a critique of American politicians and military brass to invite suspicions that Hollywood is appropriating the iconography of World War II to score contemporary political points. Yet just when it verges on indicting the people responsible for exploiting the troops, the movie comes round to their point of view.
 What is more, in a rare and audacious feat of moviemaking and distribution, ''Flags'' was produced back-to-back with a companion film, ''Letters From Iwo Jima,'' also directed by Mr. Eastwood, that is told entirely from the Japanese perspective, and in Japanese. The two movies will be released, a few months apart, by two competing studios and the remnant of a third: Paramount, because it bought DreamWorks SKG last year, is releasing ''Flags'' domestically, while Warner Brothers is to release ''Letters'' in North America and both films overseas.
 Mr. Eastwood actually tried to option ''Flags of Our Fathers'' after the widely read book by James Bradley and Ron Powers was published in May 2000. But Mr. Spielberg had snatched up the movie rights that summer, and in early 2001 he assigned its adaptation to the screenwriter William Broyles Jr., a former marine who also adapted ''Jarhead.'' The two spent more than two years collaborating on four drafts, Mr. Broyles said, before Mr. Spielberg, still unsatisfied, put the project aside in 2003.
 The following February, on the night of the 2004 Academy Awards, Mr. Eastwood and Mr. Spielberg fell into a conversation at the Governors Ball afterward, and Mr. Eastwood came into work the next morning saying that Mr. Spielberg had invited him to take over the project, said Rob Lorenz, a producer at Malpaso, Mr. Eastwood's production comany.
 Mr. Eastwood was then in preproduction on ''Million Dollar Baby,'' and he asked Mr. Haggis to tackle ''Flags of Our Fathers'' in his down time, Mr. Lorenz said. Mr. Haggis said he hit upon a way to tell three stories: of the months of training leading up to the invasion and battle for Iwo Jima; of the stateside bond drive and its life-altering effects on the surviving flag-raisers; and of James Bradley's discovery of his late father's well-concealed past as one of the three most famous heroes of World War II.
 ''I wanted to talk about the toll it takes on a man, on a person, when they're labeled a hero, and how that can destroy a person,'' Mr. Haggis said in a recent interview. ''Especially now, when we seem to have a need for heroes, and we seem to be creating heroes and villains of our own men and women.''
 Mr. Haggis turned in a first draft in late October 2004, and with scant revisions, Mr. Eastwood shot that script. But Mr. Eastwood, who read everything he could about the battle, grew eager to tell more about Iwo Jima. ''He wanted to show both sides, thus the Japanese perspective,'' Mr. Haggis said. 
 When Mr. Eastwood learned of Lieut. Gen. Tadamichi Kuribayashi, the Japanese commander whose letters home revealed a man certain he would die before ever seeing his family again, he proposed making a second film. Mr. Spielberg and executives at Warner Brothers, Mr. Eastwood's studio, quickly gave their support.
 Mr. Eastwood, who declined to comment for this article, at first even wanted to shoot both films at once, Mr. Lorenz said, but timing and other practical concerns made that impossible. Yet the producers did achieve some small economies of scale. ''Flags of Our Fathers,'' which cost $90 million to make, was shot mainly in Iceland in 2005, where the black-sand beaches are an adequate substitute for those of Iwo Jima. And ''Letters From Iwo Jima,'' a much more modest film at $20 million, will include some of the invasion scenes staged for ''Flags.''
 While much of ''Letters'' was filmed in Southern California, Mr. Eastwood arranged a scouting trip to Iwo Jima in April 2005. The island was too remote to allow for a full-scale production. But he received permission to return this past April with a small camera crew and Ken Watanabe, the actor portraying General Kuribayashi in ''Letters,'' to film at the foot of Mount Suribachi, Mr. Lorenz said.
 Mr. Haggis said that he and Mr. Eastwood had treaded quite carefully in making this war movie, given the continuing war in Iraq. ''I was most concerned that the movie would be seen as somehow justifying this war,'' Mr. Haggis said.
 He said Mr. Eastwood wanted to avoid romanticizing World War II as so many older movies have. One result of that was the decision to cast younger actors, few of them household names. ''What Clint wanted to explore was the fact that these kids were 18, 19 years old, and having to make terrible decisions. And that even in good wars, the horrors one had to witness, and one had to perpetrate, would just stick with you forever.''
 For the same reason, Mr. Haggis said, the combat in ''Flags of Our Fathers'' is particularly grisly, with many scattering limbs, spilling intestines, Japanese soldiers blowing themselves up rather than surrendering, and a flying severed head.
 That brutality was largely concealed from the American public then, just as it is now, he said. ''We don't see the bodies. It's sanitized.'' 
 Mr. Lorenz cautioned against viewing the film through a political, let alone a partisan, lens. ''I don't think we were trying to make any sort of political statement, or had any sort of agenda,'' he said. ''I do think it so happens that it's a movie that the country can use right now.''
 Mr. Broyles said he saw plenty of resonance between the story and current events, up to a point. ''Look at Jessica Lynch,'' he said. ''What really happened to her didn't fit the story line. There are lots of stories that don't make the press, but the kids out there are real heroes.'' He added, ''The important thing is to present it in the truth of what happened in 1945, without winking about what's happening in 2006, and people can draw their own conclusions about what's parallel.''
 Mr. Haggis said he had made certain in his script to subvert any one-dimensional depiction of the politicians and generals as unfairly exploiting the returning marines. So in a crucial scene, a politician tells the surviving flag-raisers that their crass re-enactments of the flag-raising, however unfaithful to the memories of their fallen comrades, were vital in rallying the nation at a moment when the government was nearly broke.
 The rest is history: President Harry S. Truman challenged them to raise $14 billion in two months. They raked in nearly double that.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Actors re-enact the flag-raising on Iwo Jima on Feb. 23, 1945, in a scene from Clint Eastwood's forthcoming film ''Flags of Our Fathers.'' (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FILM (90%); WRITERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); DRAMA FILMS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); FILM GENRES (76%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICS (71%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Motion Pictures

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (80%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (80%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (92%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (59%) David M Halbfinger; Clint Eastwood

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); VIET NAM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



445 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: California Sues 6 Automakers Over Global Warming

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
California, which has battled the automotive industry over new global warming regulations for years, sued the world's six-largest automakers yesterday, demanding that they pay for environmental damage caused by the emissions of their vehicles.
 ''Global warming is causing significant harm to California's environment, economy, agriculture and public health,'' said the state's attorney general, Bill Lockyer.
''Vehicle emissions are the single most rapidly growing source of the carbon emissions contributing to global warming, yet the federal government and automakers have refused to act.'' 
 The suit, filed in United States District Court in Northern California, is the first such attempt to hold automakers accountable for the greenhouse gases that vehicles produce. It accuses General Motors, Toyota, Ford, Honda, Chrysler and Nissan of creating a public nuisance by building millions of vehicles that collectively discharge 289 million metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere annually.
 Mr. Lockyer contends that the products of the six companies are responsible for a fifth of the carbon dioxide emissions nationwide and nearly a third of the emissions in California, which has more vehicles than any other state. 
 He said he would seek at least ''tens of millions'' in damages for past, current and future contributions to air pollution, beach erosion and reduced water supplies.
 The automakers named in the suit declined to comment on it directly, but a trade group representing them labeled the accusations a ''nuisance suit'' similar to an unsuccessful attempt by several Northeastern states to hold utilities liable for environmental damages.
 ''Automakers are already building cleaner, more fuel-efficient vehicles,'' the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, based in Washington, said in a statement. ''Today's autos are 99 percent cleaner than a generation ago, and every model of auto is now available with some type of fuel-efficient technology.''
 Dave Barthmuss, a G.M. spokesman in Los Angeles, said the automaker was working toward the eventual goal of selling clean, hydrogen-powered vehicles and, as an interim step, had invested in technology like flex-fuel engines.
 ''We are spending significant financial and human resources to commercialize alternatives,'' Mr. Barthmuss said.
 James D. Marston, director of the energy program at the nonprofit Environmental Defense, said G.M., Ford and Chrysler could improve their bottom lines by reducing emissions. He cited a study released this week by transportation researchers at the University of Michigan that suggested the three automakers would sell more cars, adding $2 billion in annual profits, by raising the fuel economy of their vehicles only a few miles per gallon.
 The industry is ''wasting a lot of money paying lawyers to fight, and we ought to be spending that money on engineering,'' Mr. Marston said. ''Automobile manufacturers need to get the message that they've got to do something different. ''
 Mr. Lockyer, a Democrat, is campaigning this fall to become California's treasurer. Some industry observers believe the suit to be merely a ploy to attract votes, but Mr. Lockyer disputed that in an interview yesterday. ''What am I supposed to do, not do my job because there's an election?'' he said. 
 He also said the suit was not an attempt to persuade automakers to back off their legal challenges to rules enacted by the state aimed at cutting greenhouse gas emissions. 
 In 2004, the state enacted similar requirements for auto emissions, which the automakers sought to throw out in federal court. That law was aimed at reducing pollution created by cars and light trucks by 25 percent and from sport utility vehicles by 18 percent.
 Last month, the California Legislature passed a measure designed to regulate industries' production of greenhouse gases. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger is expected to sign the bill into law this month.
 Marc H. Ross, a professor of physics at the University of Michigan who has studied automobile emissions, said automakers set themselves up to become a target of environmentalists as they worked to maximize sales of sport utility vehicles.
 ''Regardless of the negative social aspects of those vehicles, they proceeded to develop that market as much as they could,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: California's attorney general says the products of the six biggest auto companies are responsible for nearly a third of the state's emissions. (Photo by David Paul Morris/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (93%); GLOBAL WARMING (93%); EMISSIONS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ENGINEERING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AIR POLLUTION (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TRENDS (71%); EROSION (65%); BEACHES (65%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (63%); RESEARCH REPORTS (61%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%); NUISANCE (58%) Air Pollution; Suits and Litigation; Automobiles ; Global Warming; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Environment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Agriculture; Air Pollution; Carbon Dioxide

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Toyota Motor Corp; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Bill (Atty Gen) Lockyer; Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



446 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart to Test Price Cuts On Range of Generic Drugs 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, will test a program to sell generic prescription drugs to its workers and customers at sharply reduced prices, according to people briefed on the plans. 
 The giant discount chain, which has used its size to knock down the costs of toys, clothing and groceries, will sell generic versions of about 300 widely prescribed drugs for as low as $4 for a standard prescription, these people said, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to disclose details of the new program. On average, generic drugs cost between $10 and $30 for a 30-day prescription.
The company, which is frequently criticized for its employee health benefits, is expected to announce the program today. A company spokeswoman declined comment. 
 Wal-Mart will test the lower prices first in the Tampa, Fla., area and, depending on consumer response, may expand the program around the state and the country, these people said.
 The experiment appears to mark the first time that Wal-Mart has used its unrivaled influence in the American economy to lower the cost of health care for its customers.
 In the past year, the company has introduced several programs to improve its benefits for workers, like extending insurance coverage to the children of part-time workers and starting a benefit plan with monthly premiums as low as $11. 
 Still, critics complain that at Wal-Mart health insurance is out of reach for many of its 1.3 million employees in the United States, forcing thousands of them to turn to state-sponsored programs or forgo health coverage altogether.
 Several states even considered legislation that would force the chain to increase its spending on health care but only one such bill, in Maryland, became law. The law has since been struck down by a judge and its future is in doubt. 
 For Wal-Mart, the lower generic drug prices could blunt criticism of its health care coverage and prove a boon to business. Wal-Mart's chief executive, H. Lee Scott Jr., has identified the chain's pharmacy business as an area that needs improvement, and $4 generic drugs could turn the chain into a destination for those seeking the best prices on prescriptions. 
 It is unclear exactly how Wal-Mart obtained the lower prices. The chain has at times sold products like toys at a loss to entice consumers. But given its size it is possible the company has negotiated lower prices with health care providers and drug companies, industry experts said. 
 The new generic drug program is expected to be announced this morning at a Wal-Mart store in Florida, with senior company executives and elected leaders in attendance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERIC DRUGS (94%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (87%); LEGISLATION (86%); DRUG PRICES (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); PHARMACIES (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); HEALTH CARE (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Medicine and Health; Tests and Testing; Generic and Brand Name Products; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (59%) Michael Barbaro

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Tampa (Fla); Florida

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



447 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: The End of a Beautiful Friendship?

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO; Paula Schwartz contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
HE came from Toronto and conquered Los Angeles by building his boutique on just what the city admired: a combination of celebrity, fashion and gossip, selling entertainment as readily as he sold jeans and T-shirts.
 In marketing Kitson, his store, Frasier Ross strived not to advertise but to have the Kitson name and its products mentioned in magazines -- in paparazzi pictures of Halle Berry leaving the store with an initialed handbag in 2002, which created a run on the bags, or the coverage of a Nicole Richie book-signing party, or events promoting some celebrity's jewelry or perfume.
 Everybody seemed to benefit under the system, which has become so ingrained that now some stores hire publicists to pitch their celebrity connections to publications. The magazines, in turn, satisfy readers' hunger for knowing how the stars shop, eat and live; the paparazzi sell pictures; the celebrities get exposure; and the retailer, of course, attracts shoppers -- paying ones.
 But this natural order has been disrupted by an ugly dispute between Mr. Ross and Us Weekly that even Mr. Ross's lawyer calls ''a three-ring circus.'' It involves allegations of blackballing and violation of the unspoken rules of back-scratching. 
 Earlier this month, Mr. Ross filed suit against Wenner Media, publisher of Us Weekly, claiming that the magazine has banned Kitson from its pages, cropping pictures to ensure that Kitson's signature blue shopping bag doesn't show, and leaving the store's name out of picture captions.
 The suit cites two recent examples: a picture of the actress Evangeline Lilly attending a private party for a footwear line at the store last July, which failed to identify Kitson as the site; and another of Maria Shriver in August that shows her leaving Kitson with her daughter but omits the store name.
 ''They did it out of spite,'' Mr. Ross said in an interview at his store, which sits among other luxury businesses on Robertson Boulevard.
 The idea that a retailer would sue to demand coverage in a magazine strikes many in publishing as bizarre, and some magazine editors have deemed the lawsuit frivolous or a publicity stunt.
 Janice Min, Us Weekly's editor in chief, declined to address the legal dispute directly but rejected the notion that the magazine blacklists retailers, or, as the suit also claims, demands free merchandise in exchange for coverage. ''Absolutely not,'' she said.
 Ms. Min said there is a revolving door of what's in or hot, and decisions about which stores are mentioned depend on whether they carry items celebrities and readers are interested in. Relationships the magazine has with retailers with a celebrity following ''come into play,'' she said, but the name of a store may be left out of a picture caption of a celebrity because ''sometimes the most interesting fact is that they were with a new boyfriend.''
 Behind the recent lawsuit is an older conflict between Kitson and Us Weekly, one that has eroded a relationship once so tight that Kitson dedicated one of its windows to Us Weekly. The dispute has many elements of a lovers' spat in which one party claims not to be receiving enough attention.
 But Mr. Ross argues in his suit that his fight is about a contractual obligation -- that Us Weekly broke a legal settlement last March in which the parties agreed not to disparage each other or interfere in each other's business. That deal was the result of an earlier lawsuit Mr. Ross filed against the West Coast editor of Us, Ken Baker, over nonpayment for a party at Kitson where Mr. Baker promoted a book he wrote, ''Hollywood Hussein.''
 In the suit against Mr. Baker, Mr. Ross said the editor asked him to underwrite the party and promised two full pages of coverage in Us Weekly, but the magazine never delivered. (Wenner Media later paid $13,620 for the party as part of the settlement agreement, which was attached to the second lawsuit.) 
 Even in the climate of hostility between the magazine and the store, Ms. Min noted, Kitson has made it into the magazine, most recently in June.
 ''Everyone who has a product to sell wants to be in Us Weekly because of the impact,'' Ms. Min said. ''This lawsuit is all about Kitson wishing to be more in Us Weekly.'' 
 At the center of the Kitson-Us dispute is the celebrity-fueled economy that capitalizes on the public's boundless need for minutiae about entertainment stars. 
 A celebrity's association with a store can dramatically boost sales. Shelly Steffee, a designer with a store that bears her name in New York's meatpacking district, said a $250 sequined belt she started selling in 2003 didn't take off until People and other magazines showed Ms. Berry and Jennifer Lopez wearing it in the fall of 2004, mentioning her as the designer. She received an immediate order of 800 belts from accessory buyers from Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus, she said.
 "Everyone just jumped on that bandwagon," she said.
 Charla Lawhon, managing editor of In Style, a magazine that pioneered the idea of identifying the clothes, accessories and home furnishings that stars own or supposedly own, said readers want a way to connect to celebrities by following their taste. 
 ''Our readers feel that they actually know them,'' she said.
 Many retailers work hard to be mentioned as the source of celebrities' goods. They alert the paparazzi when a celebrity is in their store, or they send products to stars for free in the hope they'll be photographed using them, or they keep track of which celebrities buy what and offer the information to editors.
 Magazines with prominent style coverage of celebrities have different policies about conflicts of interest. Not everyone is convinced that such guidelines are observed. Martin Kaplan, director of the Norman Lear Center in Los Angeles, which studies the impact of entertainment on society, said the notion that ethical standards exist when the entertainment industry intersects with celebrity journalism is ''an illusion.''
 ''There's a piece of journalism that's been completely appropriated by marketing,'' he said. ''If you just see the writing and the covers and the way swag is distributed to stars by merchants, the whole thing is a kind of free for all.''
 Some editors reject this characterization. 
 Martha Nelson, editor of the People Group, which includes People magazine, said, ''The fundamental principle is, if anything leads to an expectation of coverage or a lack of objectivity, it is to be shunned.'' Ms. Nelson said stores are mentioned in a fashion display as a service to readers because ''if it doesn't include any information, you'll be inundated with queries from readers asking, where does one get that?''
 While standards vary from publication to publication and everyone understands the benefit of cultivating sources and relationships, some editors said there are clear no-no's, like asking for free products.
 Stuart Zakim, a former corporate communications chief for both Wenner Media and American Media, publisher of Star and The National Enquirer, said a more common quid pro quo between retailers and magazines is that ''if you're a fashion or beauty advertiser, you will also be showcased somewhat editorially.''
 ''In layouts at the bottom of the page you'll see credit for the designer and where the clothes came from along with the name of the stylist,'' he said.
 ''It's never stated but it's understood,'' he added. 
 A twist in the Kitson versus Wenner Media case reinforces the view that some relationships can become incestuous. Last year Mr. Ross became an investor in Sunset Photo and News, a paparazzi agency headed by Jill Ishkanian, a former news editor with Us Weekly. Ms. Ishkanian is currently under investigation by the F.B.I. after Us Weekly alerted authorities to their suspicions that she was accessing internal e-mail about stories in progress, said Glenn Feldman, the lawyer for both Ms. Ishkanian and Mr. Ross.
 "Jill has denied any wrongdoing and is cooperating with the F.B.I.," Mr. Feldman said.
 Mr. Ross, who is not involved in the daily operations of the photo agency, cites the investigation in his lawsuit, saying it is one of the reasons the magazine turned against him. 
 A 43-year-old with a look of permanent worry on his face, Mr. Ross has been celebrated as a retailing innovator -- he was recently named among the 100 ''most powerful'' in Southern California by The Los Angeles Times for controlling the ''celebrity fashion machine'' and creating ''dozens of fashion trendlets.''
 He opened Kitson (his middle name) in 2000 on Robertson, where paparazzi camp out across from celebrity magnets like the Ivy restaurant. He mixed high and low clothing, ''appealing to the fun part of shopping,'' he said.
 He courted Paris and Lindsay and Jessica as customers, as well as those who sell ''informal'' pictures of them out shopping or partying. He came up with Hollywood-centric concepts like Team Aniston and Team Jolie T-shirts, feeding tips to style magazines and in the process turning his store into a celebrity itself.
 He has even resorted to a velvet rope outside to manage the crowds, usually a mix of tourists and locals, on the busiest days.
 Mr. Ross now presides over a business with $24 million in annual sales, he says, including a children's store that opened in August and a men's shop new this month. He also sells online and has licensing agreements for Kitson T-shirts and footwear.
 ''I'm not a fashion person, I'm more of a marketer,'' he said. ''Today anything can be successful.''
 Although Mr. Ross claims in his lawsuit that Us Weekly is costing him more than $10,000 a week in lost sales and injury to his reputation, he's on to the next thing: a promo blitz, including $95 T-shirts and other clothes, pegged to the next James Bond movie, ''Casino Royale,'' one of his many deals with studios to promote movies through his store.
 ''Having a Kitson window is like having a billboard on Sunset,'' he boasted.


GRAPHIC: Photos: TASTEMAKER -- Frasier Ross in Kitson, his store in Los Angeles. He is suing Us Weekly, saying the magazine is deliberately keeping his store out of its pages. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
 FAVORS AMONG FRIENDS -- On the Kitson Web site, Frasier Ross displays magazine pages that feature celebrities shopping at, or wearing products from, his store. (pg. G2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); PUBLISHING (76%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (76%); FOOTWEAR (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); BOOKSTORES (72%) Retail Stores and Trade; Celebrities; Advertising and Marketing; Suits and Litigation; Retail Stores and Trade; Magazines; Apparel

COMPANY: WENNER MEDIA LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Kitson (Los Angeles Store); Wenner Media Inc; US Weekly (Magazine)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: HALLE BERRY (58%); JANN WENNER (56%) Frasier Ross; Janice Min; Mireya Navarro

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



448 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: At Los Angeles Times, a Civil Executive Rebellion

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
After Jeffrey M. Johnson, the publisher of The Los Angeles Times, openly defied his bosses at the Tribune Company last week by refusing to make layoffs at the paper, he was summoned to Chicago and spent Tuesday meeting with top executives.
 The remarkable thing about the meeting, to Mr. Johnson's colleagues back in Los Angeles, was that he was not fired.
 Colleagues said he returned to Los Angeles and told them he had reached ''an understanding'' with Chicago, at least for now. ''Let's focus on running the business,'' he told them.
 This latest development has led some at the newspaper to hold out a degree of hope that both Mr. Johnson and Dean Baquet, the editor of the paper who also defied Tribune, may be able to keep their jobs. But while a showdown has been temporarily averted, the standoff between Tribune and the top executives at its biggest newspaper remains a major issue. 
 The Tribune board is meeting today in Chicago and is expected to focus on another problem troubling the company: a demand by the Chandler family, the company's biggest investor, to unwind partnerships the family has with Tribune, which owns 11 newspapers and 25 broadcast outlets and the Chicago Cubs.
 Dennis J. FitzSimons, chief executive at Tribune, is expected to present a plan to extricate the company from those partnerships, according to someone with knowledge of the negotiations. That would allow the board eventually to consider other strategic options, like selling off its television stations or possibly putting some or all of its newspapers up for sale, as demanded by the Chandlers and other shareholders.
 At the same time, some of Los Angeles's most prominent citizens are up in arms over what they say has been the Tribune Company's diminution of a prized public trust, with three local billionaires stirring the pot with their own separate plans for buying the paper. 
 But it is Tribune's handling of the growing rebellion in Los Angeles that has riveted the attention of the newspaper industry.
 At The Los Angeles Times, the fourth-biggest newspaper in the country, more than 400 members of the 940-member editorial staff have signed a letter to Tribune supporting Mr. Johnson and Mr. Baquet. Strikingly, some on the paper's business side, too, are expressing frustration with management, citing tensions between centralized control from Chicago and local control in Los Angeles, particularly over the newspaper's Web site. ''The challenge the Tribune is struggling with is that Los Angeles is such a large brand, they don't really know how to handle it,'' said one business executive at the paper.
 In a statement last night, Scott C. Smith, president of the Tribune Publishing division, said: ''Our commitment to great journalism will not waver.'' 
 Still, the question remains: Will Mr. FitzSimons fire Mr. Johnson and Mr. Baquet and thereby risk a full-scale revolt at Tribune's biggest property? Or will he try to smooth things over and thereby risk undermining his authority with his other editors and publishers? ''Tribune is in a box,'' said Conrad C. Fink, who teaches newspaper management at the University of Georgia.
 ''Their instinct probably was to immediately fire both the publisher and the editor and for some reason they hesitated, and now the staff have signed a petition and they would be out in the streets with placards in 30 seconds,'' he said. ''But all reason in management practice would say the publisher and editor must go.''
 Mr. Johnson and Mr. Baquet, both of whom assumed their jobs last year, have told friends they do not know what to expect regarding their futures. Before Mr. Johnson left Chicago Tuesday, they had told friends they could be fired. But with the company facing so many other problems, those friends said, they could be safe, for now. Last year, Mr. Johnson and Mr. Baquet oversaw $10 million in cuts and the loss of 85 jobs.
 In a memo to his staff last night, Mr. Johnson said that during his meeting in Chicago, he had ''reiterated our commitment to build a credible financial plan in the coming weeks that is grounded in actions and initiatives that efficiently build readership and revenue.''
 According to a Tribune executive, the new demands on Mr. Johnson and Mr. Baquet now include keeping the paper's expenses flat for 2007, forgoing an expected $3 million increase; cutting the editorial staff of 940 by an unspecified number that could exceed several dozen; and making an additional $17 million, or 7 percent, in profits, which could also require additional cost cuts since revenue has been flat. 
 The company has been under pressure from shareholders to improve its stock price, as have many media companies. Ariel Capital Management, a Chicago-based money management firm, and one of Tribune's biggest investors, suggested yesterday it expected the company to take some sort of action.
 ''We support the board in taking steps to close the substantial gap that exists between the stock price and the intrinsic value of the company,'' said Charles K. Bobrinskoy, vice chairman of Ariel. While the stock closed yesterday at $30.69, some industry analysts have placed the value closer to $45 a share.
 ''Whether these steps involve taking the company private, selling the L.A. Times or the Cubs, or spinning off broadcasting, as some have speculated, all are viable options,'' Mr. Bobrinskoy said. ''We have every confidence that the board will choose the options that are in the best interests of shareholders and the company.''
 Another investor, Frank Garamella, of Missouri, has filed a suit against the company's directors, saying they have harmed shareholders by taking on $2.4 billion in new debt in a stock repurchase plan when they should instead have considered selling The Los Angeles Times.
 In addition, Nelson Peltz, an activist shareholder, has acquired 1 percent of Tribune stock. Mr. Peltz's plans regarding Tribune are not clear, but he has a history of forcing actions at other companies in which he has a stake.
 The Chandler family went public earlier this year with their anger over management of the company. The Chandlers said they wanted Tribune to spin off its television stations or break up. The company could not do so in part because it was enmeshed in two complicated financial partnerships with the Chandlers.
 A group of 20 prominent Los Angeles citizens who sent a letter last week to the company, urging it to cease making cuts, are a loosely formed group of business people in charge of nonprofit organizations. They meet frequently to discuss issues facing greater Los Angeles, and they include Warren Christopher, former secretary of state under President Bill Clinton, who is the head of the chamber of commerce and the president of the city's chapter of the Urban League. 
 The group's members say they are less interested in finding new owners for the paper than in improving what they say are flaws in its local coverage and getting Tribune executives in Chicago to see things their way.
 ''People don't like policy issues here,'' said Brendan Huffman, president of the Valley Industry and Commerce Association. ''But the fact is that we are the world's 17th-largest economy and it is very important to cover these stories and educate the population.''
 While those who seek to buy the paper outright agree with the business leaders about the paper's coverage, they see themselves as the solution. The potential buyers include three billionaires: David Geffen, the music mogul; Eli Broad, the philanthropist; and Ronald Burkle, a supermarket tycoon.
 Mr. Geffen has told friends that he recognizes the paper could be expensive but that he was prepared to pour hundreds of millions of dollars into it. He has said he would buy the paper with his own money and would be happy with a 5 percent return on investment, far below what The Los Angeles Times has said is a 20 percent profit margin now. 
 Mr. Broad favors the model of The St. Petersburg Times, which is owned by a nonprofit journalism foundation, the Poynter Institute, and would like to see his philanthropic foundation team up with other local institutions to purchase the paper. ''The paper needs to be locally owned,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 30, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Sept. 21 about a standoff between the publisher of The Los Angeles Times and his bosses at the Tribune Company over cutbacks referred incorrectly to Warren Christopher, a former secretary of state, who urged the company to stop making cuts. Mr. Christopher is one of 20 Los Angeles citizens who sent a letter to the company. He is not head of the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce and is not president of the city's chapter of the Urban League. (Those leaders are among the 20 who lobbied the Tribune Company.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey M. Johnson, the publisher (Photo by Los Angeles Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); JOURNALISM (74%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (70%); BASEBALL (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%) Newspapers; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Newspapers; Television; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Newspapers

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (97%); TRIBUNE CO (CHICAGO IL) (85%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (55%) Los Angeles Times; Tribune Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (97%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (85%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%)

PERSON: DENNIS J FITZSIMONS (79%) Katharine Q Seelye; Jennifer Steinhauer; Jeffrey M Johnson; Dean Baquet; Dennis J FitzSimmons; Chandler Family

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



449 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and China Set Up Teams for Economic Talks

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
The United States and China, struggling to surmount the discord in their economic relations, established high-level teams in each country on Wednesday to conduct a ''strategic economic dialogue'' to be led on the American side by Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary.
 Mr. Paulson said that while some might be disappointed that he did not resolve several irritants in the Chinese-American relationship on his trip this week, only a sustained high-level dialogue would produce progress in the disputes over trade, currency values, piracy of movies and software and other matters. 
''What we've done here is put a process in place that gives us the best chance of getting us the results that we need to get,'' Mr. Paulson told reporters. ''To me the key thing always in working with the Chinese is to be able to get access to all the right people at the right level and have a process where there's a real discipline.''
 But it is unclear whether Mr. Paulson's move would satisfy critics of China who have grown weary of appeals for patience and more dialogue. 
 Indeed, the pact probably clears the way for the Senate to vote for imposition of nearly 30 percent tariffs on Chinese goods if it does not act to raise the value of its currency against the dollar, making exports more expensive.
 The bill, sponsored by Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat, and Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican, could pass the Senate as early as next week, its supporters say. Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham had said that they would pull it back only if Mr. Paulson obtained concessions from China this week.
 The bill has dimmer prospects in the House, and President Bush is considered certain to veto it if it passes. But the bill by itself could become yet another irritant with the Chinese, who American officials say have trouble understanding that Congress can act against the wishes of a president.
 Mr. Paulson said he hoped that Congress would ''judge me by the results that I get and this administration gets over a period of time'' and warned Congress not to have a short-term mentality on issues as complex as Chinese economics.
 ''If they do, heaven help this country,'' he said.
 The leading industrial nations of the West have contended for years that China is suppressing the value of its currency to pump out exports and curb imports. The American trade deficit with China has ballooned over the last few years to about $200 billion annually, alarming labor unions, manufacturers and many in Congress.
 Mr. Paulson's appointment as Treasury secretary in July raised expectations that he could use his long experience with China as the former head of Goldman Sachs to make headway with China. But in recent weeks, and at the start of this trip, he has been cautioning against quick remedies and counseling patience.
 The problem of China's low currency value, its closed economy and aggressive economic practices needs to be fixed slowly as China achieves an internal consensus, Mr. Paulson said. Slowing exports to the West, for example, is opposed by many Chinese leaders who fear that a loss of jobs in China could lead to instability.
 Patience was also the mantra of Mr. Paulson's predecessor, John W. Snow, but Mr. Paulson may have more credibility because of the bipartisan support he has in Congress. While counseling patience, Mr. Paulson acknowledged that at least some short-term progress on the issues would be needed to instill confidence in the United States.
 ''I'm not going to take any victory laps over a process,'' he told a small group of reporters at his hotel after the announcement. He promised that the ''dialogue meetings'' would be substantive, adding: ''We don't plan to sit around tables and write communiques. We intend to get things done.''
 What officials say is new about the task force is that Mr. Paulson persuaded Mr. Bush soon after taking office in July to put him in charge of economic relations with China and oversee a ''dialogue'' involving other agencies, steps aimed at nudging the consensus along in China.
 A noteworthy aspect of the announcement was that Mr. Paulson would be more in charge and oversee the process of making policy among commerce, trade, energy and other agencies, a step Treasury officials said he undertook over the summer by building his own form of consensus in the Bush administration, with the help of Mr. Bush.
 One reason the announcement is likely to be greeted with skepticism is that there have been past ''dialogues'' with China announced over the years, also with some fanfare. The former deputy secretary of state, Robert B. Zoellick, headed a ''senior dialogue'' on several economic, political and security issues until he left earlier this year. Mr. Paulson said his new dialogue would subsume Mr. Zoellick's.
 China will be expected to raise its own issues with the United States. In the economic sphere these include Chinese complaints of American barriers to textile imports, curbs on sharing of high technology with the Chinese and a campaign to get Europe to ban certain military sales.
 ''I wouldn't want to predict when there should be concrete results,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''But I'm not famous for being patient.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry M. Paulson Jr., the United States Treasury secretary, and Vice Premier Wu Yi of China talked yesterday about plans to conduct a ''strategic economic dialogue'' between the two countries. (Photo by Elizabeth Dalziel/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); TRENDS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); COUNTERFEITING (70%); VETO (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); TRADE DISPUTES (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); IMPORT CONTROLS (60%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Recordings (Video); Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Counterfeit Merchandise; Copyrights; Customs (Tariff)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%); WU YI (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (70%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (50%) Henry M Jr Paulson; George W (Pres) Bush; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) China; United States; China

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



450 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Higher Profit At Circuit City

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va., Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Circuit City Stores said Wednesday that second-quarter profit rose more than sevenfold, beating Wall Street's expectations, as it benefited from increased sales in flat-panel televisions and digital-imaging products and accessories. 
 Circuit City, which ranks behind Best Buy among the nation's consumer electronics retailers, said it earned $10 million, or 6 cents a share, in the three months that ended Aug. 31, up from $1.3 million, or a penny a share, a year ago.
Circuit City, based in Richmond, said earnings from continuing operations were $11.4 million, or 7 cents a share, up from $3.9 million, or 2 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Sales were $2.84 billion, up 11 percent from $2.56 billion last year. Sales at stores open at least a year rose 8.3 percent. The company said Web-originated sales in its domestic segment grew 74 percent over the previous year.
 Philip J. Schoonover, the chief executive, said he was pleased with the results, given the mixed economic signals and aggressive competition.
 Circuit City said sales of video equipment, led by flat-panel TV's, were up more than 10 percent. Those results were partly offset by sales declines in camcorders and DVD hardware.
 Information-technology sales were higher, with an increase in sales of computer hardware and notebook computers, but a decline in sales of printers, monitors and desktop computers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (65%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (65%); EXECUTIVES (52%); CD & DVD DRIVES (51%) Company Reports ; Electronics

COMPANY: CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: Circuit City Stores Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (97%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (97%)

PERSON: PHILIP SCHOONOVER (74%) Philip J Schoonover

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (55%) VIRGINIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



451 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2006 CAMPAIGN: Gearing Up for November; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2138 words

HEADLINE: ONLY 25% IN POLL VOICE APPROVAL OF THE CONGRESS

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JANET ELDER; Megan C. Thee, Marjorie Connelly and Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With barely seven weeks until the midterm elections, Americans have an overwhelmingly negative view of the Republican-controlled Congress, with substantial majorities saying that they disapprove of the job it is doing and that its members do not deserve re-election, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 The disdain for Congress is as intense as it has been since 1994, when Republicans captured 52 seats to end 40 years of Democratic control of the House and retook the Senate as well. It underlines the challenge the Republican Party faces in trying to hold on to power in the face of a surge in anti-incumbent sentiment.
By broad margins, respondents said that members of Congress were too tied to special interests and that they did not understand the needs and problems of average Americans. Two-thirds said Congress had accomplished less than it typically did in a two-year session; most said they could not name a single major piece of legislation that cleared this Congress. Just 25 percent said they approved of the way Congress was doing its job. 
 But for all the clear dissatisfaction with the 109th Congress, 39 percent of respondents said their own representative deserved re-election, compared with 48 percent who said it was time for someone new.
 What is more, it seems highly unlikely Democrats will experience a sweep similar to the one Republicans experienced in 1994. Most analysts judge only about 40 House seats to be in play at the moment, compared with over 100 seats in play at this point 12 years ago, in large part because redistricting has created more safe seats for both parties.
 The poll also found that President Bush had not improved his own or his party's standing through his intense campaign of speeches and events surrounding the fifth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. The speeches were at the heart of a Republican strategy to thrust national security to the forefront in the fall elections. 
 Mr. Bush's job approval rating was 37 percent in the poll, virtually unchanged from the last Times/CBS News poll, in August. On the issue that has been a bulwark for Mr. Bush, 54 percent said they approved of the way he was managing the effort to combat terrorists, again unchanged from last month, though up from this spring.
 Republicans continued to hold a slight edge over Democrats on which party was better at dealing with terrorism, though that edge did not grow since last month despite Mr. Bush's flurry of speeches on national security, including one from the Oval Office on the night of Sept. 11.
 But the Times/CBS News poll found a slight increase in the percentage of Americans who said they approved of the way Mr. Bush had handled the war in Iraq, to 36 percent from 30 percent. The results also suggest that after bottoming out this spring, Mr. Bush's approval ratings on the economy and foreign policy have returned to their levels of about a year ago, both at 37 percent. The number of people who called terrorism the most important issue facing the country doubled to 14 percent, from 7 percent in July; 22 percent named the war in Iraq as their top concern, little changed from July.
 Across the board, the poll found marked disenchantment with Congress, highlighting the opportunity Democrats see to make the argument for a change in leadership and to make the election a national referendum on the performance of a Republican-controlled Congress and Mr. Bush's tenure.
 In one striking finding, 77 percent of respondents -- including 65 percent of Republicans -- said most members of Congress had not done a good enough job to deserve re-election and that it was time to give a new people a chance. That is the highest number of voters saying it is ''time for new people'' since the fall of 1994.
 ''You get some people in there, and they're in there forever,'' said Jan Weaver, of Aberdeen, S.D., who described herself as a Republican voter, in a follow-up interview. ''They're so out of touch with reality.''
 In the poll, 50 percent said they would support a Democrat in the fall Congressional elections, compared with 35 percent who said they would support a Republican. But the poll found that Democrats continued to struggle to offer a strong case for turning government control over to them; only 38 percent said the Democrats had a clear plan for how they would run the country, compared with 45 percent who said the Republicans had offered a clear plan.
 Overall discontent with Congress or Washington does not necessarily signify how people will vote when they see the familiar name of their member of Congress on the ballot, however. Democrats face substantial institutional obstacles in trying to repeat what Republicans accomplished in 1994, including a Republican financial advantage and the fact that far fewer seats are in play.
 Thus, while 61 percent of respondents said they disapproved of the way Congress was handling its job, just 29 percent said they disapproved of the way their own ''representative is handling his or her job.''
 The New York Times/CBS News poll began last Friday, four days after the commemoration of the fifth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, and two weeks after the White House began its offensive on security issues. A USA Today-Gallup Poll published Tuesday reported that Mr. Bush's job approval rating had jumped to 44 percent from 39 percent. The questioning in that poll went through Sunday; The Times and CBS completed questioning Tuesday night. Presidential addresses often produce shifts in public opinion that tend to be transitory.
 The nationwide poll was conducted by telephone Friday through Tuesday. It included 1,131 adults, of whom 1,007 said they were registered to vote, and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 As part of the Republican effort to gain advantage on the war in Iraq, Republicans have accused Democrats who want to set a timetable for leaving Iraq of wanting to ''cut and run.'' But 52 percent of respondents said they would not think the United States had lost the war if it withdrew its troops from Iraq today.
 The poll also found indications that voters were unusually intrigued by this midterm election: 43 percent said they were more enthusiastic than usual about voting. However, with turnout promising to be a critical factor in many of the closer Senate and House races, there was no sign that either party had an edge in terms of voter enthusiasm.
 Evidence of the antipathy toward Congress in particular -- and Washington in general -- was abundant: 71 percent said they did not trust the government to do what is right. 
 ''If they had new blood, then the people that influence them -- the lobbyists -- would maybe not be so influential,'' said Norma Scranton, a Republican from Thedford, Neb., in a follow-up interview after the poll. ''They don't have our interest at heart because they're influenced by these lobbyists. If they were new, maybe they would try to please their constituents a little better.''
 Lois Thurber, a Republican from Axtell, Neb., said in a follow-up interview: ''There's so much bickering, so much disagreement -- they just can't get together on certain issues. 
 ''They're kind of more worried about themselves than they are about the country.'' 
 Incumbents and challengers nationwide are trying to accommodate this sour mood. Democrats are presenting themselves as a fresh start -- ''Isn't it time for a change?'' asked an advertisement by the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee directed against SenatorJim Talent, Republican of Missouri.
 And Republican incumbents are seeking to distance themselves from fellow Republicans in Washington. ''I've gone against the president and the Republican leadership when I think they are wrong,'' Representative Christopher Shays, a Connecticut Republican locked in a tough re-election battle, said in a television advertisement broadcast this week. 
 The Republicans continue to be seen as the better party to deal with terrorism, but by nowhere near the margin they once enjoyed: it is now 42 percent to 37 percent. When asked which party took the threat of terrorism more seriously, 69 percent said they both did; 22 percent named Republicans, compared with 6 percent who said Democrats.
 Voters said Democrats were more likely to tell the truth than Republicans when discussing the war in Iraq and about the actual threat of terrorism. And 59 percent of respondents said Mr. Bush was hiding something when he talked about how things were going in Iraq; an additional 25 percent said he was mostly lying when talking about the war.
 Not that Democrats should draw any solace from that: 71 percent of respondents said Democrats in Congress were hiding something when they talked about how well things were going in Iraq, while 13 percent said they were mostly lying.
 Robert Allen, a Democrat from Ventura, Calif., said: ''We're in a stalemate right now. They're not getting hardly anything done.'' He added, ''It's time to elect a whole new bunch so they can do something.'' 

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Sept. 15 through Sept. 19 with 1,131 adults throughout the United States. Of these, 1,007 said they were registered to vote. 
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country. The exchanges were chosen so as to assure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population.
 Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey. 
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, marital status, age and education. 
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults. For smaller subgroups, the margin of sampling error is larger. Shifts in results between polls over time also have a larger sampling error. 
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
 Dr. Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The Times in its polling analysis. Complete questions and results are available at nytimes.com/polls.


Seats lost by House and Senate incumbents

1994
Democratic: 35

1998
Republican: 7
Democratic: 2

2002
Republican: 3
Democratic: 6

(Sources by Congressional Quarterly; The New York Times/CBS News Poll)(pg. A1)

Chart: ''Views on Congress and the Parties''

Do you approve or disapprove of the way Congress is handling its job?

Approve: 25%
Disapprove: 61
No opinion: 14

Do you approve or disapprove of the way your representative is handling his or her job?

Approve: 53
Disapprove: 29
No opinion: 17

Have most members of Congress done a good enough job to deserve re-election or is it time to give new people a chance?

Deserve re-election: 12
Time for new people: 77
Depends: 4
No opinion: 7

Has the representative in Congress from your district performed his or her job well enough to deserve re-election or is it time to give a new person a chance?

Deserves re-election: 39
Time for new person: 48
Depends: 2
No opinion: 12

Regardless of how you intend to vote, who do you expect will win more seats in this year's election for the House of Representatives? *

Democrats: 54
Republicans: 32
No opinion: 14

Is your vote for Congress a vote for or against George W. Bush, or isn't your vote about George W. Bush's presidency? *

For: 16
Against: 35
Not about George W. Bush: 46
No opinion: 4

Regardless of how you usually vote, do you think the Republican Party or the Democratic Party is more likely to . . .

. . . make right decisions about the war in Iraq?

Republican: 37
Democrat: 42
Both: 2
Neither: 5
No opinion: 14

. . . ensure a strong economy?

Republican: 35
Democrat: 50
Both: 3
Neither: 3
No opinion: 9

. . . make the right decisions when it comes to dealing with terrorism?

Republican: 42
Democrat: 37
Both: 6
Neither: 3
No opinion: 11

. . . tell the truth about how the war in Iraq is going?

Republican: 23
Democrat: 44
Both: 5
Neither: 17
No opinion: 11

Totals may not add to 100 because of rounding.

Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted Sept. 15-19 with 1,131 adults of whom 1,007 are registered voters.

*Based on registered voters. (pg. A28)

GRAPHIC: Chart: Graph tracks Congressional approval rating before midterm elections since 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); APPROVALS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (85%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATION (73%); REDISTRICTING (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); IRAQ WAR (67%); COUNTERTERRORISM (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%) Public Opinion; New York Times/cbs News Poll; United States Politics and Government; Election Issues 

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Adam Nagourney; Janet Elder; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



452 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Set to Lead, Japan's Next Premier Reconsiders Postwar Era

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
After securing the Liberal Democratic Party's presidency on Wednesday, Shinzo Abe will become Japan's first prime minister born after World War II, with a clear eye toward re-examining the postwar era.
 Mr. Abe, who will turn 52 on Thursday, received two-thirds of the votes in the election for the presidency of the Liberal Democratic Party. Because of the party's grip on the lower house of Parliament, which chooses the prime minister, Mr. Abe is now assured of succeeding Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi in a parliamentary session on Tuesday.
In a race that was his to lose, Mr. Abe (pronounced AH-bay) avoided specific comments about how he would pursue economic changes or how he would repair Japan's strained relations with China and South Korea. 
 Instead, he spoke of revising the United States-imposed Constitution, which forbids Japan to have a full-fledged military, passing legislation to allow Japanese troops to be deployed overseas and making it possible for Japan to exercise the right to collective self-defense with the United States. He also wants to revise the other legal document of the postwar American occupation, the Fundamental Law of Education, and emphasize moral values, patriotism and tradition in schools.
 ''By entrusting our national security to another country and putting a priority on economic development, we were indeed able to make great material gains,'' Mr. Abe wrote of the postwar era in his campaign book, ''Toward a Beautiful Country.'' ''But what we lost spiritually -- that was also great.''
 The emergence of a prime minister with no personal experience of World War II is considered a turning point in Japan, where the absence of a consensus on the war still troubles relations with the rest of Asia.
 Considered politically inexperienced, Mr. Abe, who will be the youngest prime minister in postwar Japan, rose to political stardom by talking tough on North Korea, China and national security. In Japan and in the rest of Asia, Mr. Abe is regarded as even more hawkish and conservative than Mr. Koizumi. 
 To his supporters, Mr. Abe is a politician unburdened by Japan's past, capable of forging a newly independent and strong path for the nation. To critics, he is a potentially dangerous ideologue ready to jettison the postwar values that have brought stability, peace and wealth to Japan.
 Hakubun Shimomura, a Liberal Democratic lawmaker and an ally of Mr. Abe's, said the next prime minister would ''look back objectively at the postwar period, removed from its trauma and able to make choices as part of the postwar generation.''
 ''I think the symbolic start of the independent nation of Japan will be Mr. Abe's revision of the Constitution,'' Mr. Shimomura said.
 But Shusei Tanaka, a professor at Fukuyama University and a former Liberal Democratic lawmaker, worried that Mr. Abe's greatest influence was from his grandfather, Nobusuke Kishi, a wartime cabinet member imprisoned as a Class A war crimes suspect but never tried, who became prime minister in 1957. Recently, Mr. Abe has avoided commenting on Japan's wartime past.
 Only five years ago, few would have predicted that Mr. Abe would become prime minister. He was known mainly as the grandson of Mr. Kishi and the son of Shintaro Abe, a former foreign minister, whom the son long served as secretary.
 Mr. Abe took over his father's parliamentary seat in 1993, after Shintaro Abe's death, and became quite popular among voters, earning a reputation as a strong leader by voicing national anger at North Korea's admission in 2002 that it had kidnapped several Japanese citizens in the 1970's and 1980's. Since then, he has kept his hard line against North Korea, and against China. After North Korea launched missiles in July, he suggested that Japan debate whether it should acquire the military capacity for a pre-emptive strike.
 One of Mr. Abe's most pressing problems will be to restore normal relations with China, which has refused to hold high-level talks because of Mr. Koizumi's annual visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, the Shinto memorial where 14 Class A war criminals are enshrined. The shrine, also a memorial to Japan's 2.5 million war dead, is considered a symbol of Japanese militarism in the rest of Asia.
 The visits have worried American politicians that Japan is provoking China, and hurting American interests in the region. Mr. Abe, despite past support of the visits, has said he would pursue a policy of ambiguity, neither confirming nor denying whether he has visited the shrine.
 On wartime history, Mr. Abe has allied himself with Japan's right-wing politicians, news media and scholars. Unlike Mr. Koizumi, he has doubted the validity of the postwar Tokyo trials in which Japan's wartime leaders were condemned.
 In the past he has indicated that he rejects the mainstream, postwar view that Japan waged a war of aggression and invasion in Asia. But he has not publicly embraced the hard-line position that Japan waged war in Asia to liberate it from Western imperialism. Unlike Mr. Koizumi and other prime ministers, Mr. Abe, though pressed many times, has avoided endorsing a landmark apology issued in 1995 by the Japanese government to Asian countries.
 Japanese hard-liners regard him as a true believer, while they looked askance at Mr. Koizumi for trying to negotiate with North Korea and for proposing to change the Imperial Household Law so that a woman could ascend the throne. While Mr. Koizumi made decisions on his own, dividing people between enemy and ally, Mr. Abe emphasizes harmony.
 ''People tend to like Mr. Abe's personality,'' Mr. Shimomura said. Lacking Mr. Koizumi's larger-than-life personality, Mr. Abe has instead cultivated a soft image that has taken the sharp edges off his strong views. Mr. Abe, a teetotaler who is married but has no children, appeared on a talk show to announce that his favorite food was ice cream.
 ''In his appearance and his way of speaking, he's soft,'' Mr. Shimomura said. ''But in the inside, he's rock solid. He sticks to his principles and won't compromise.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shinzo Abe has called for revising the Constitution, which bars Japan from having a full military. (Photo by Issei Kato/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Constitutions; United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Economic Conditions and Trends; Law and Legislation; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (94%) Norimitsu Onishi; Shinzo Abe

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Japan; China; South Korea; Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



453 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Iran Who? Venezuela Takes the Lead in a Battle of Anti-U.S. Sound Bites

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
In the end, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran lost the much-hyped war of words waged against President Bush at the General Assembly. A stealth opponent swooped in and took the prize.
 Speaking on Wednesday from the same lectern Mr. Bush had occupied the day before, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela announced, to gasps and even giggles: ''The devil came here yesterday, right here.
''It smells of sulfur still today, this table that I am now standing in front of,'' he said. 
 Just hours before, Mr. Ahmadinejad took issue with the great Satan, too. But what a difference. Where Mr. Chavez was Khrushchevian, waving around books and stopping just short of shoe-banging, Mr. Ahmadinejad was flowery, almost Socratic in his description of behavior that only the devil would condone. 
 ''By causing war and conflict, some are fast expanding their domination, accumulating greater wealth, while others endure poverty,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad lectured. ''Some seek to rule the world relying on weapons and threats while others live in poverty. Some occupy the homelands of others, interfering in their affairs and controlling their oil and resources, while others are bombarded daily in their own homes, their children murdered in the streets.''
 Mr. Ahmadinejad, who has been known for inflammatory language in his sound bites at home, suggesting that Israel should be wiped off the map and denying the Holocaust, was much less direct in his United Nations speech, asking question after question.
 An example: ''The question needs to be asked: if the governments of the United States or the United Kingdom, who are permanent members of the Security Council, commit aggression, occupation and violation of international law, which of the organs of the U.N. can take them to account? Can a Council in which they are privileged members address their violations? Has this ever happened?''
 Mr. Ahmadinejad's speech received all the buildup beforehand, particularly since he was scheduled on Tuesday, the same day as Mr. Bush. At the end of his speech, Mr. Ahmadinejad, as Mr. Bush did before him, received polite, diplomatic-style applause from the assembled officials, junior note-takers and various United Nations bureaucrats.
 And for Mr. Chavez? 
 The gasps. The horrified giggles. The loud applause that lasted so long that the organization's officials had to tell the cheering group to cut it out.
 President Bush's defenders noted that at least the United States had let Mr. Chavez and Mr. Ahmadinejad come here and say whatever they pleased without being thrown in jail. John R. Bolton, the American ambassador to the United Nations, who said that someone at the ''junior note-taker'' level was chronicling Mr. Chavez's speech for the United States, offered: ''You know, it's a phenomenon of the United States that not only can he say those things in the General Assembly, he could walk over to Central Park and exercise freedom of speech in Central Park, too, and say pretty much whatever he wanted. Too bad President Chavez doesn't extend the same freedom of speech to the people of Venezuela.''
 For her part, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Mr. Chavez's comments were ''not becoming of a head of state.''
 But compared with Mr. Ahmadinejad, Mr. Chavez was just more colorful. He brandished a copy of Noam Chomsky's ''Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance'' and recommended it to members of the General Assembly to read. Later, he told a news conference that one of his greatest regrets was not getting to meet Mr. Chomsky before he died. (Mr. Chomsky, 77, is still alive.)
 At that same news conference, just after his speech, he made eyes at a pretty Colombian journalist who asked him why he went around calling President Bush names. ''Are you Colombian?'' Mr. Chavez asked, performing a quick merengue move with his upper body and flashing her a grin. 
 He suggested that Americans read Mr. Chomsky's book instead of spending all their time ''watching Superman and Batman'' movies.
 Minutes later, at the same news conference, Mr. Chavez offered to double the amount of heating oil Venezuela donates to poor communities in the United States. He reminded reporters that Citgo, which is owned by Petroleos de Venezuela S.A., delivered free and discounted oil to Indian tribal reservations and low-income neighborhoods in the United States, including the Bronx.
 ''We are ready to double our oil donations,'' Mr. Chavez said. ''That is a Christian gesture.''
 Mr. Ahmadinejad did not offer any Iranian oil to poor United States neighborhoods.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 21 about criticism of President Bush at the United Nations by President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran reported that Mr. Chavez praised a book by Noam Chomsky, the linguist and social critic. It reported that later, at a news conference, Mr. Chavez said that he regretted not having met Mr. Chomsky before he died. The article noted that in fact, Mr. Chomsky is alive. The assertion that Mr. Chavez had made this misstatement was repeated in a Times interview with Mr. Chomsky the next day.
 In fact, what Mr. Chavez said was, ''I am an avid reader of Noam Chomsky, as I am of an American professor who died some time ago.'' Two sentences later Mr. Chavez named John Kenneth Galbraith, the Harvard economist who died last April, calling both him and Mr. Chomsky great intellectual figures.
 Mr. Chavez was speaking in Spanish at the news conference, but the simultaneous English translation by the United Nations left out the reference to Mr. Galbraith and made it sound as if the man who died was Mr. Chomsky. 
 Readers pointed out the error in e-mails to The Times soon after the first article was published. Reporters reviewed the recordings of the news conference in English and Spanish, but not carefully enough to detect the discrepancy, until after the Venezuelan government complained publicly on Wednesday. 
 Editors and reporters should have been more thorough earlier in checking the accuracy of the simultaneous translation.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Hugo Chavez drew gasps from the United Nations General Assembly yesterday when he referred to President Bush as the devil. (Photographs by Jason Szenes/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (76%); POOR POPULATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%) United States International Relations; Freedom of Speech and Expression

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%) United Nations

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); HUGO CHAVEZ (90%) Helene Cooper; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; George W (Pres) Bush; John R (Amb) Bolton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Venezuela; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



454 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Again Dodges a Vote On Moynihan Station Plans 

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Locked in a standoff with the State Assembly over financing for a $900 million plan to convert the city's main post office to a grand transit hub, the Pataki administration took the proposal off the table again yesterday rather than risk a vote against it.
 State officials have been pushing to get the long-awaited project, called Moynihan Station, approved by the Public Authorities Control Board so that construction can begin before Gov. George E. Pataki leaves office in January. But a vote was delayed last month when Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, who controls the state board together with Governor Pataki and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, raised questions about the project's financing. 
 After delaying the start of the control board meeting for more than two hours yesterday, the Pataki administration pulled Moynihan Station off the board's agenda. 
 Charles A. Gargano, the state's top economic development official, told Assembly leaders in recent days that any further delay could jeopardize or possibly kill the project, which proponents say would be a gateway to New York City and a necessary expansion of the nation's busiest transit center. State officials insist that financing for Moynihan Station has long been in place.
 But Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller, issued a letter Tuesday night saying he did not believe that state officials had provided the necessary information to determine whether ''there are commitments of funds sufficient to finance the acquisition and construction'' of Moynihan Station. He then raised questions about the state's deal with the project's developers, Stephen M. Ross of the Related Companies and Steven Roth of Vornado Realty Trust. Mr. Hevesi said the state had sold one million square feet of development rights to the developers without having obtained an independent appraisal.
 At yesterday's meeting, state officials initially sought to force a vote anyway, but Mr. Hevesi and Mr. Silver refused to budge.
 ''We have provided answers to those questions, and continue to be available to answer any questions at any time, as we have for the past several months,'' Mr. Gargano said yesterday. ''We are confident that the answers provided to the comptroller will resolve any remaining concerns, and that the P.A.C.B. will vote to move forward on the Moynihan Station project in the coming days.''
 But it is unclear whether the gap between the two sides can quickly be bridged.
 ''Instead of answering our questions,'' Mr. Silver said, ''we get, 'You're going to kill the project.' ''
 ''This has to do with the fact that the project was not properly presented to us,'' Mr. Silver added. '' If they'd go forward and try to answer the questions we could try and move this project forward.''
 All sides maintain that they support the Moynihan Station project, which was first proposed by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan 13 years ago. State officials obtained most of the funds for the project in 2001, and it has been wending its way through the public approval process for two years.
 But the issue has become mired in politics and complicated by a nascent $7 billion proposal by the developers, Mr. Roth and Mr. Ross, to modernize and expand Pennsylvania Station to both sides of Eighth Avenue between 31st and 33rd Streets, by moving Madison Square Garden a block west to the back of the post office building. The larger proposal, which has not been unveiled publicly, is referred to as Plan B.
 Democrats have complained recently that the Pataki administration is trying to rush through projects and appointments in a last-minute bid to establish a legacy without scrutiny from legislators.
 ''These guys are trying to close out every major real estate deal in the state before they leave office,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat. ''They want approval of a bunch of half-baked deals. It's nonsense.''
 Mr. Silver is also asking why the control board is being asked to approve the smaller Moynihan Station project when the larger proposal is what the developers want to build. ''They're saying, 'Approve Plan A and we'll give you Plan B' later,'' Mr. Silver said of the Pataki administration. ''We can change it. I'm suggesting that the thing presented to me personally, and I assume to Senator Bruno, is Plan B. I'm suggesting, put forth Plan B with a financial plan and, subject to evaluation, I think we can be very supportive.''
 But Mr. Gargano said the state had not yet presented the larger proposal, whose fate is still uncertain. He said it would take 18 months to get approval and require $1 billion in public funds for the renovation of Penn Station.
 ''We're only asking for approval of the Moynihan Station project and development within the post office,'' Mr. Gargano said. ''No other plan has been presented.''
 The leading candidate to succeed Mr. Pataki, the Democrat Eliot Spitzer, the attorney general, has said that Mr. Hevesi has raised legitimate questions about the financial viability of the current proposal, although he insists that he supports both plans for Moynihan Station.
 Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Mr. Spitzer, said yesterday, ''If elected, Eliot will immediately seek to resolve these issues so that the Moynihan project can move forward.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%) Railroads; Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Moynihan, Daniel Patrick, Train Station (NYC)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (66%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%)

PERSON: STEVEN ROTH (50%) Charles V Bagli; George E (Gov) Pataki; Sheldon (Speaker) Silver

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006



455 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2006
Early Edition

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: It's the Bushes And Clintons, Finding Ground In Common

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
It's not often that you see a current American president and his predecessor in New York City, on the same morning, trying to foster peace in the Muslim world, and trying to burnish their own legacies as statesmen.
 Nor is it common to have the wife of one of them on hand to help out the other guy. 
But there was President Bush meeting with the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, at the Waldorf-Astoria. And there was former President Bill Clinton convening a conference on global concerns at a nearby Sheraton, and listening to President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan chastise Pope Benedict XVI for the pope's remarks about Islam. And there was the first lady, Laura Bush, giving the Clinton conclave some juice by announcing a new project to deliver clean water to 10 million Africans by 2010.
 Mr. Musharraf, echoing an old slogan of Mr. Clinton's, could have been reflecting the ethos of the Midtown diplomacy -- not to mention the Bushes and the Clintons -- when he told the conference that in dealing with all religious faiths, ''This is a time to build bridges and not burn bridges.''
 In truth, it was just another day in the intriguing world of BushClinton (or ClintonBush, if you will): A world in which a Bush presidency begat a Clinton presidency that begat a Bush presidency that may lead to -- well, one can speculate. In this world, the former presidents named Bush and Clinton are apparently thick as thieves, while son Bush and wife Clinton are regularly at odds over the geopolitical issues under discussion yesterday.
 Certainly, though, no one was calling a Bush (or a Clinton) a devil as the two families overlapped at Mr. Clinton's conference. President Bush and Mr. Clinton had a pleasant-looking run-in at the United Nations on Tuesday afternoon, and Mr. Clinton warmly welcomed Mrs. Bush to his conference dais yesterday to announce the $10 million federal commitment for the water project.
 She did so in front of an audience of hundreds of officials from developed and undeveloped nations, who first sat and listened to a list of Bush administration goals to support the third world. If there were Bush skeptics in the room, they were politely silent, and Mr. Clinton was beaming like a proud presidential spouse as he sat and listened to Mrs. Bush champion her husband's agenda.
 The major speakers at the conference were a little less love-soaked and a good bit more opinionated, apparently to the applauding audience's delight.
 Mr. Musharraf took the lead as news-making head of state. He said ''a lot of tensions in the Muslim world'' were caused by the furor involving Pope Benedict XVI's citation of a medieval text saying some of Muhammad's teachings were ''evil and inhuman.'' Mr. Musharraf added that the pope's remarks ''were most unwarranted.''
 ''It is a time for interfaith harmony,'' Mr. Musharraf said later in the conference session. No one has the right, he continued, ''to hurt anybody else's feelings, least of all at this time.''
 Referring to Muslims, Mr. Musharraf added: ''The world thinks that we don't believe in democracy, we don't believe in modernization, we don't believe in secularism. Let me assure this house that Islam in theory believes in all of them.''
 Mr. Musharraf also said the continued presence of American troops in Afghanistan was contributing to the resurgence of the Taliban and was intensifying instability there.
 ''They are coming back because of the presence of foreign troops,'' he said. ''There certainly is an antipathy to foreign presence in Afghanistan.''
 The Pakistani leader emphasized that in his view, the conflict between the Israeli and Palestinian governments remained the greatest threat to security and political stability in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Lebanon.
 ''It lies at the core of everything,'' he said. ''We must not open new fronts -- we must start closing fronts.''
 Javier Solana, the foreign policy chief of the European Union, said he believed that ''the Clinton parameters are still probably the best solution'' to bringing peace to the Middle East, referring to the former president's aggressive diplomacy to mediate the Israeli-Palestinian disputes.
 Mr. Solana also said clashes of ideology, religion, politics and economics went beyond the Israeli and Palestinian governments. 
 ''The divide that persists in the world is more profound than we think, and we better be aware of that,'' he said. ''It's not getting smaller, but growing.''
 In remarks that seemed aimed at the news media, Mr. Solana also warned that the West should not carelessly provoke Muslims even in the spirit of free speech and open thought. He made the comment when asked about the newspaper cartoons lampooning Muhammad last winter that led to a spasm of violence worldwide.
 Mr. Clinton said that so far he had secured more than $2 billion in ''commitments'' from businesses and others to help address the themes of his conference: energy and climate change; mitigating religious and ethnic conflict; alleviating poverty; and global health. 
 The conference, known as the Clinton Global Initiative, lined up $2.5 billion from 300 sponsors last year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Clinton greeting Laura Bush at his world issues conference yesterday, after she announced a $10 million federal commitment for an African water project. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RELIGION (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); BUDGETS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%) Clinton Global Initiative; Philanthropy; Clinton Global Initiative; Foreign Aid; Water; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Clinton Global Initiative

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (88%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (75%) Patrick Healy; Bill Clinton; Laura Bush; George W (Pres) Bush; Mahmoud (Pres) Abbas; Javier (Min) Solana; Pervez (Pres) Musharraf

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); PAKISTAN (79%) New York City; Africa

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



456 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: Some Signs of Sluggishness

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
A report of a surprise drop in regional factory activity yesterday suggested that the economy might be losing momentum faster than most economists expected. 
 The sluggishness was also seen in a forward-looking economic gauge released early in the day.
In the regional factory report, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said its business activity index tumbled to minus 0.4 in September, from 18.5 in August; Wall Street economists had expected a positive 14.8.
 It was the first time the index had fallen below zero since April 2003. When the index turns negative, it means manufacturing is declining.
 In another report, the Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators fell 0.2 percent in August to its lowest since October 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (70%) United States Economy; Leading Economic Indicators

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Conference Board

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



457 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Family Fare; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 957 words

BYLINE: By Laurel Graeber

 BODY:

In 'The Real World,' Many Imaginary Ones
 Most museums would be highly distressed if enthusiastic children trooped in and started placing their own sculptures around and on top of prized works. But public art is an altogether different animal, or, in the case of Tom Otterness's creations, usually several different animals.
 So no one is expected to complain on Sunday when families make personal contributions to ''The Real World'' (1992), Mr. Otterness's lively parade of cast-bronze sculptural vignettes in Rockefeller Park in Lower Manhattan. His installation, which includes cartoonlike little people and animals in various relationships of power -- in one a dog stalks a cat that stalks a bird that stalks a worm -- is usually interpreted by adults as an allegory of capitalism run amok. But placed within a playground, it is also a universe of whimsy for children, who can climb on some of the figures and step on the dog to release water from a drinking fountain. 
''Tom Otterness has done a great job of giving you enough information and yet keeping the meaning open at the same time,'' said Dorothea Basile, an art educator. ''Endless stories can be imagined there.''
 Those stories will be the focus of ''What's That? A Hands-On Look at Public Art,'' which Ms. Basile will lead with Jenny Bevill, a teaching artist. Sponsored by the Battery Park City Parks Conservancy, the program will begin with a scavenger hunt in which participants will search for specific figures. After a group discussion, ''we will ask them to think about making the characters in their real world -- their friends, their family, people from the community,'' Ms. Basile said. 
 The aspiring artists will use Model Magic, a malleable material that doesn't harden immediately, and insert their work into Mr. Otterness's. ''They might have someone riding on the back of one of his characters or climbing a post,'' Ms. Basile said. This installation-within-an-installation will be dismantled at the end, but not before digital photos are taken and interpretations shared. 
 ''My fantasy is that as the kids grow up, they'll bring their kids,'' Ms. Basile said. ''And the stories will go on and on.''
 ''What's That?,'' Sunday at 2 p.m. in the northeast corner of Rockefeller Park (at Chambers Street), Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan, (212) 267-9700; bpcparks.org. Free. 

Who's a Monkey's Uncle
 What creature stands four to five feet tall, has a body that is about 80 percent muscle and can jump as far as 40 feet? (If that description is a little unsettling, rest assured that it is not a carnivore.)
 This is the kangaroo, a resident of the Prospect Park Zoo, the only New York City institution to have the species. The zoo's western gray kangaroos will be just one of the animals featured tomorrow and Sunday in its Keeping Up With Keepers Weekend, which will also show how keepers keep up with their charges. (In the case of kangaroos, not by jumping.)
 Tomorrow only, in the first Teen Zoo Volunteer Legacy Fair, teenagers will present projects like ''A Day in the Life of a Zookeeper'' and ''A Baboon Family Tree.'' ''This gives the history of our baboon family,'' said Kate McIntyre, a zoo spokeswoman.
 Children can investigate wildlife careers at the Discovery Center. ''They can put on child-size scrubs,'' Ms. McIntyre said, ''and look at fake scat under a microscope.''
 The zoo's staff will offer live animal encounters (possible candidates are owls and tamarinds) and ''keeper chats'' about kangaroos and Eastern bluebirds. 
 Young visitors will also see the drama in zookeepers' lives. In a puppet show that sneaks in math, ''the kids help mix the animals' diets,'' Ms. McIntyre said. Other offerings are the Wildlife Theater Players' ''King of the Prairie,'' about prairie dogs, and a piece about urban wildlife whose title has a nice literary ring: ''Look Homeward, Pigeon.'' 
 Keeping Up With Keepers Weekend, tomorrow and Sunday, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., at the Prospect Park Zoo, 450 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, (718) 399-7339, prospectparkzoo.com. Admission: $6; 65+, $2.25; 3 to 12, $2; under 3, free.

The Good Old Days?
 Eighteenth-century Americans might be amused -- not to say mystified -- to know that 21st-century Americans were recreating their living conditions. Why would anyone with modern comforts want to re-enact an era in which dinner often had to be caught, smallpox raged, and the average lifespan was 30-something? 
 But replications of the past tend to be selective, and the Van Cortlandt House Museum promises that the 1700's will be thoroughly enjoyable, at least on Sunday, when it presents ''Life in the Colonies: A Celebration of 18th-Century Life.''
 ''It's a market day,'' said Michael Grillo, the museum's education coordinator. ''We have different craftsmen. Some are working in wood, some are making wampum beads, and someone performs 18th-century music on a hammered dulcimer.'' 
 In Good Company, a dance troupe, will also visit and teach those eager to be in step with the era. 
 Families will be invited to churn butter and dip candles. Children will make cornhusk dolls and learn games of the 1700's. Fred Greenspan will present a Punch and Judy show, and the storyteller Bobby Gonzalez will offer American Indian tales.
 Visitors can also tour the museum. ''There's a room that General Washington used when he made the house his headquarters during the Revolution,'' Mr. Grillo said. ''We usually have a reproduction 1776 uniform of his on a chair.''
 And no worries about centuries of inflation: all activities are free.
 ''Life in the Colonies,'' Sunday from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Van Cortlandt House Museum, Van Cortlandt Park, Broadway and 246th Street, the Bronx, (718) 543-3344, vancortlandthouse.org.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Part of the installation ''The Real World'' in Rockefeller Park. (Photo by Battery Park City Parks Conservancy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); ANIMALS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (72%) Art

ORGANIZATION: Prospect Park Zoo; Van Cortlandt House Museum

PERSON: Laurel Graeber

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) Rockefeller Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



458 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Some Signs of a Slowing Economy Send Shares Lower

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday after a report said factory activity shrank in the mid-Atlantic region in September for the first time in more than three years, prompting worries about a slowdown in the economy and corporate profits.
 Drugstore stocks fell sharply after Wal-Mart Stores said it would cut generic drug prices in Florida.
Hewlett-Packard, the maker of computers and printers, fell after news reports said its chief executive might have been more closely involved in an investigation of leaks to the news media than was previously known. 
 ''I don't think the question anymore should be whether the economy is slowing; it really should be the degree to which it will slow,'' said Neil Wolfson, president of Wilmington Trust Investment Management in New York. ''The Philly Fed index declined much more than was expected. That is a sign that manufacturers are cutting back, which could be due to the view that consumers will be slowing down.''
 The survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia added to concerns raised in an earlier report from the Conference Board, which said its index of leading economic indicators, a major forecasting gauge for the economy, fell in August to its lowest in nearly a year.
 The Dow Jones industrial average was down 79.96 points, or 0.69 percent, to end at 11,533.23. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 7.15 points, or 0.54 percent, to finish at 1,318.03. The Nasdaq composite index was down 15.14 points, or 0.67 percent, to close at 2,237.75.
 Only 9 of the Dow's 30 components finished higher.
 Shares of Hewlett-Packard lost 5.2 percent, or $1.91, to $34.87. H.P. was the top drag on both the Dow and S.& P. 500.
 Wal-Mart's move threatened to lure customers away from pharmacy chains like Walgreen and CVS, whose shares have climbed steadily since summer as consumer staples came back into favor.
 Shares of Walgreen dropped 7.3 percent, or $3.67, to $46.28, while shares of CVS slid 8.4 percent, or $2.96, to $32.47. Rite Aid fell 5 percent, or 24 cents, to $4.52, and Longs Drug Stores fell 4.2 percent, or $2.04, to $46.01. Wal-Mart shares slipped 0.8 percent, or 41 cents, to $48.46.
 The worries about the strength of consumer spending and corporate profits were made worse by the climb in crude oil futures prices, which rose more than 1 percent in a rebound on technical factors after hitting a six-month low Wednesday.
 Exxon Mobil's stock, up 1 percent, or 67 cents, at $64.78, was the top gainer in both the Dow and the S.& P. 500. Shares of Chevron rose 1.9 percent, or $1.17, to $62.05, while the stock of ConocoPhillips rose 1.7 percent, or 96 cents, to $58.21.
 Crude oil for November delivery rose 85 cents, to settle at $61.59 a barrel, off a session high at $61.80.
 The Nasdaq's biggest percentage losers included shares of the interactive content provider Infospace, down nearly 22 percent, or $4.93, at $17.68. The company said its revenue and operating results would be hurt by a partner's plans for direct licensing deals with record labels early next year.
 Technology-related shares fell broadly, with I.B.M. down 2.2 percent, or $1.81, at $81.61, and Apple Computer off almost 1 percent, or 61 cents, at $74.65. I.B.M. ranked as the second-biggest drag on the Dow, behind H.P., while Apple was the heaviest weight on the Nasdaq 100.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note declined to 4.64 percent, from 4.73 percent. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 24/32, to 101 28/32.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since June, 2006. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); PRINTER MFG (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); DRUG PRICES (77%); PHARMACIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); GENERIC DRUGS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); FUTURES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ENERGY MARKETS (71%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (69%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (65%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%)

TICKER: CVS (NYSE) (65%); WMT (NYSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (65%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (65%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



459 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Evelyn Ortner, 82, a Booster of Brooklyn Brownstones

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
Evelyn Ortner, who with her husband, Everett, was among the first, the most vocal and the most effective champions of the brownstone revival that spread from Brooklyn to the rest of the country, died on Tuesday at her home in Park Slope. She was 82.
 The cause has not been determined. She had a mastectomy two weeks ago, but had seemed to be doing well until her death, her husband said. 
Victorian homes had fallen into disfavor and many middle-class New Yorkers were moving to the suburbs by 1963, when Mrs. Ortner and her husband bought a four-story 1886 brownstone on Berkeley Place in Park Slope. 
 Mrs. Ortner, an interior designer before she became a preservationist, was so enchanted by that house, with its original mahogany woodwork and papier-mache and linseed-oil wallpaper, that she began a campaign to save thousands of other brownstones from neglect or the wrecking ball.
 Many of the graceful 19th-century single-family homes in Park Slope were owned by absentee landlords and had been cut up into rooming houses. In other parts of New York, old homes were being lost to federally sponsored urban renewal projects. 
 The Ortners decided to make brownstones -- and Brooklyn -- appealing to many people who had never considered anything but apartment life in Manhattan. To attract other preservationists, the Ortners and a small group of likeminded Brooklynites began conducting some historic-house tours to present dilapidated houses as opportunities. Mrs. Ortner publicized the tours by dressing in antique clothing and posing for newspaper photographers.
 She and her husband convinced Brooklyn Union Gas that it would be good business to buy another old house, then occupied by pigeons, and turn it into a showcase. That house, at 211 Berkeley Place, became the first of a series of Cinderella Projects undertaken by the company, now called Keyspan, and the Ortners were eventually featured in full-page Brooklyn Union ads. 
 In 1968, the Ortners helped found the Brownstone Revival Committee, now known as the Brownstone Revival Coalition, a citywide preservation organization. 
 ''It was the beginning of the brownstone frenzy, the mania,'' she said in an interview in 2003 conducted as part of the New York Preservation Archive Project.
 In 1974, the brownstone coalition held a national ''Back to the City'' conference at the Waldorf-Astoria, which was followed by 13 other annual conferences in 13 cities, including St. Paul, Hartford, Washington and San Antonio, Mr. Ortner said. 
 Mrs. Ortner did much of the historical research that persuaded the New York City Landmarks Preservation Committee to designate the Park Slope historic district in 1973, her husband said.
 ''Because of her knowledge of interior design and her personal charm, she was able to convince large numbers of people that saving brownstones and saving neighborhoods were worthwhile causes,'' said Ronda Wist, executive director of the New York City Landmarks Commission. 
 Mrs. Ortner's enthusiasm was infectious. Clem Labine was a writer for Chemical Engineering magazine when he met her at a New Year's Eve party in 1966. He was planning to move to the suburbs, and the Ortners persuaded him to buy a brownstone a block away from them. He went on to found magazines called Old House Journal, Traditional Building and Period Homes.
 Evelyn Gelbman was born in Manhattan on July 4, 1924, the daughter of Joseph Gelbman, an electrical contractor, and his wife, Stella. She grew up in the north Bronx and earned a bachelor's degree in Spanish from Hunter College. In 1953, she married Everett, an editor at Popular Science magazine for 33 years. Besides her husband, she is survived by her brother, Bernard Gelbman of Manhattan. 
 She studied interior design at Pratt Institute in the 1950's and historic preservation at Columbia University in the 1970's and until recently worked as an interior designer.
 She championed the restoration of the stained glass windows at St. Ann's Church in Brooklyn, beginning in 1979. That project led to the creation of the Brooklyn Stained Glass Conservation Center, a nonprofit studio, of which she was the president. From 1979 to 1984, she was director of facilities and collections of the New York Chamber of Commerce.
 In part because of their own difficulty in getting a mortgage for their $32,500 house, the Ortners were prominent in the anti-redlining campaigns beginning in the mid-1960's, when many banks were reluctant to finance mortgages in declining neighborhoods like Park Slope, Cobble Hill and even Brooklyn Heights, where brownstones now routinely sell for millions of dollars. 
 She was never motivated by money. The only house that she and her husband ever owned was their own, where she was living at the time of her death. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); CITY LIFE (87%); CITIES (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); HISTORY (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SUBURBS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (54%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (54%); NG (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (54%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (54%)

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



460 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Time to Bring Share Lending Into the Light

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:

He who sells what isn't his'n
must buy it back or go to pris'n.
-- Attributed to Daniel Drew, 1797-1879
 The annals of short selling have no better exemplar than Daniel Drew, whose career demonstrated both the risks and rewards of pursuing such an unpopular strategy. He made, and lost, several fortunes, along the way founding a Methodist seminary that bears his name. He died broke.
In an era when insider selling was not illegal -- and, in fact, was deemed a sacred right of insiders -- it was Mr. Drew who persuaded members of the New York City Council to first sell short shares of a railroad company controlled by Cornelius Vanderbilt and then to revoke the company's license to operate a street railway in Manhattan. The idea was that the councilmen, and Mr. Drew, would profit when the share price plunged. 
 The scheme backfired when Mr. Vanderbilt bought shares, keeping the price from falling. Eventually he owned more shares than existed, leaving those who were short at his mercy. They needed to buy shares to cover their short positions and he was the only possible seller. The city councilmen were allowed to exit with small losses, in return for reinstating the license. It cost Mr. Drew much more to get out.
 The market was much wilder in those days, but fights over short selling are still lively. The market's referee, the Securities and Exchange Commission, finds itself caught between economists, who tend to think that markets are more efficient if everyone can bet on whether a price is too high or too low, and politicians and corporate executives who argue that markets are being manipulated by traders who sell shares without either owning them or borrowing them.
 That is called naked shorting, and while it is not the only cause of failures to deliver shares, it is no doubt the major one for heavily shorted stocks. It makes perfect sense: Those who borrow shares must sometimes pay hefty fees if a lot of others want to borrow the same stock. Why pay if you can get the same benefits by shorting without borrowing?
 The S.E.C. has a rule that it says has reduced such shorting, but the practice has risen in some stocks and a proposed tightening of the rule may not have much effect.
 But a roundtable of economists testifying before the S.E.C. last week produced an interesting idea: Make those who do not borrow pay the same, or more, than they would have had to pay if they did borrow. In other words, use the market to police the market.
 That would require shining light on the market for borrowing shares, as was proposed by Owen Lamont, a finance professor at Yale who calls short sellers an ''oppressed minority.'' The idea was seconded by Charles Jones, an economist at Columbia, who noted that the stock lending market was more transparent back in 1929, before the age of regulation.
 If the lending price for any given stock were easily and publicly available, it would make it clear just how overvalued the shorts thought a stock was. Those who failed to deliver shares could be subject to gradually growing fines based on the market price for borrowing.
 Making everyone happy is impossible. Some economists, like Lawrence E. Harris, a finance professor at the University of Southern California and a former chief economist for the S.E.C., warn that restrictions on shorting can lead to overvalued shares, damaging the economy by leading to inefficient allocation of capital and depressed future returns for those who buy at the higher prices.
 But the companies whose shares are subject to heavy naked shorting say it must be stopped, and they fume at the S.E.C.'s argument that stocks can be manipulated by those trying to force prices up via short squeezes, a la Vanderbilt, as well as by those who dump large volumes of stock in an effort to overwhelm the market.
 ''Short squeezes have the beneficial effect of creating discipline in the market,'' Patrick M. Byrne, the chief executive of Overstock.com, a heavily shorted Internet retailer, wrote in a letter to the S.E.C. Surely, he added, the commission cannot favor ''downward price pressure over price increases owing to short squeezes.''
 In the long run, prices will adapt to reality. If stocks are unreasonably cheap, because of excessive shorting or any other reason, someone may bid for the entire company, creating a big problem for the shorts. If shares are far too expensive, as Internet stocks were in early 2000, prices will eventually plunge no matter how eager a company's fans.
 Some economists would like to see few restrictions on short sellers because they play a vital role in the price discovery process. But if the S.E.C. wants to continue requiring that shares be borrowed before they can be shorted, then an effort to make the stock loan market more transparent -- and force every short to pay the price -- makes sense.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Mathew Brady)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (86%); INSIDER TRADING (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); LICENSES & PERMITS (74%); CITIES (69%) Stocks and Bonds; Short Selling; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Stocks and Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%) Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: Floyd Norris; Daniel (1797-1879) Drew

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



461 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Pickers Are Few, and Growers Blame Congress

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

DATELINE: LAKEPORT, Calif. 

 BODY:
The pear growers here in Lake County waited decades for a crop of shapely fruit like the one that adorned their orchards last month. 
 ''I felt like I went to heaven,'' said Nick Ivicevich, recalling the perfection of his most abundant crop in 45 years of tending trees.
 Now harvest time has passed and tons of pears have ripened to mush on their branches, while the ground of Mr. Ivicevich's orchard reeks with rotting fruit. He and other growers in Lake County, about 90 miles north of San Francisco, could not find enough pickers.
 Stepped-up border enforcement kept many illegal Mexican migrant workers out of California this year, farmers and labor contractors said, putting new strains on the state's shrinking seasonal farm labor force. 
 Labor shortages have also been reported by apple growers in Washington and upstate New York. Growers have gone from frustrated to furious with Congress, which has all but given up on passing legislation this year to create an agricultural guest-worker program. 
 Last week, 300 growers representing every major agricultural state rallied on the front lawn of the Capitol carrying baskets of fruit to express their ire.
 This year's shortages are compounding a flight from the fields by Mexican workers already in the United States. As it has become harder to get into this country, many illegal immigrants have been reluctant to return to Mexico in the off-season. Remaining here year-round, they have gravitated toward more stable jobs.
 ''When you're having to pay housing costs, it's very difficult to survive and wait for the next agricultural season to come around,'' said Jack King, head of national affairs for the California Farm Bureau Federation.
 California farms employ at least 450,000 people at the peak of the harvest, with farm workers progressing from one crop to the next, stringing together as much as seven months of work. Growers estimate the state fell short this harvest season by 70,000 workers. Joe Bautista, a labor contractor from Stockton who brings crews to Lake County, said about one-third of his regular workers stayed home in Mexico this year, while others were caught by the Border Patrol trying to enter the United States. 
 With fewer workers, Mr. Bautista fell behind in harvests near Sacramento and arrived weeks late in Lake County. ''There was a lot of pressure on the contractors,'' he said. ''But there is only so much we can do. There wasn't enough labor.''
 For years, economists say, California farmers have been losing their pickers to less strenuous, more stable and sometimes higher-paying jobs in construction, landscaping and tourism. 
 ''If you want another low-wage job, you can work in a hotel and not die in the heat,'' said Marc Grossman, the spokesman for the United Farm Workers of America. The union calculates that up to 15 percent of California's farm labor force leaves agriculture each year. 
 As they sum up this season's losses, estimated to be at least $10 million for California pear farmers alone, growers in the state mainly blame Republican lawmakers in Washington for stalling immigration legislation that would have addressed the shortage by authorizing a guest-worker program for agriculture. Many growers, a dependably Republican group, said they felt betrayed.
 ''After a while, you get done being sad and start being really angry,'' said Toni Scully, a lifelong Republican whose family owns a pear-packing operation in Lake County. ''The Republicans have given us a lot of lip service, and our crops are hanging on the trees rotting.''
 Tons more pears that were harvested were rejected by Mrs. Scully's packing plant because they were picked too late. The rejects were dumped in a farm lot, mounds of pungent fruit swarming with bees, left to be eaten by deer. ''The anthem about the fruited plain,'' Mrs. Scully said sadly, ''I don't think this is what they had in mind.'' 
 Some economists and advocates for farm workers say the labor shortages would ease if farmers would pay more. Lake County growers said that pickers' pay was not low -- up to $150 a day -- and that they had been ready to pay even more to save their crops. ''I would have raised my wages,'' said Steve Winant, a pear grower whose 14-acre orchard is still laden with overripe fruit. ''But there weren't any people to pay.''
 The tightening of the border with Mexico, begun more than a decade ago but reinforced since May with the deployment of 6,000 National Guard troops, has forced California growers to acknowledge that most of their workers are illegal Mexican migrants. The U.F.W. estimates that more than 90 percent of the state's farm workers are illegal.
 Most California growers gave up years ago on recruiting workers through the seasonal guest-worker program currently in place. Known as H-2A, the program requires employers to prove they tried to find American workers and to apply well in advance for relatively small contingents of foreign workers for fixed time periods. 
 ''Our experience with the current H-2A program has been a nightmare,'' said Luawanna Hallstrom, general manager of Harry Singh & Sons, a vine-ripe tomato grower based in Oceanside, near San Diego.
 Ms. Hallstrom said her company tried to use the program in the months after the Sept. 11 attacks, when security checks forced it to fire illegal migrant employees who were working in tomato fields on a military base. Her company lost $2.5 million on that 2001 crop, she said. 
 Over the years, occasional programs to draw American workers to the harvests have failed. ''Americans do not raise their children to be farm workers,'' Ms. Hallstrom said. 
 The failure of Congress to approve a new guest-worker program surprised California growers because a proposal that the Senate passed stemmed from a rare agreement between growers' organizations, the U.F.W. and other advocates for farm workers, and legislators ranging from conservative Republicans to liberal Democrats.
 Known as AgJobs, the proposal would create a new temporary-resident status for seasonal farm workers and give them the chance to become permanent residents if they work intensively in agriculture for at least three years. It was included in a bill that passed the Senate in May. The House has passed several bills focused on border security, and has avoided negotiations with the Senate on a broader immigration overhaul. [Three of the House bills were passed Thursday.]
 Mr. Ivicevich, a 69-year-old family farmer, is not given to displays of emotion. But he paused for a moment, overwhelmed, as he stood among trees sagging with pears that oozed when he squeezed them. His nighttime sleep, in his cottage among his 122 acres of orchards, is disrupted by the thud of dropping fruit and the cracking of branches. 
 For decades, Mr. Ivicevich said, migrant pickers would knock on his door asking for work climbing his picking ladders. Then about five years ago they stopped knocking, and he turned to a labor contractor to muster harvest crews. This year, elated, he called the contractor in early August. Pears must be picked green and quickly packed and chilled, or they go soft in shipping. 
 ''Then I called and I called and I called,'' Mr. Ivicevich said. 
 The picking crew, which he needed on Aug. 12, arrived two weeks late and 15 workers short. He lost about 1.8 million pounds of pears.
 His neighbor, Mr. Winant, standing in his drooping orchard with his hands sunk in his jeans pockets, said he would rather bulldoze the pear trees than start preparing them for a new season. 
 ''It's like a death, like a son died,'' said Mr. Winant, 45, who cares for the small orchard himself during the winter. ''You work all year and then see your work go to ground. I want to pull them out because of the agony. It's just too hard to take.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Toni Scully, whose family owns a pear-packing company in Northern California, rejected tons of fruit that had been picked too late for marketing. (Photo by Max Whittaker for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Pears rotted on the ground of Nick Ivicevich's orchard. He lost about 1.8 million pounds of them. (Photo by Max Whittaker for The New York Times)(pg. A16)Map of California highlighting Lake County: Lake County lacked fruit pickers for this year's harvest. (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (95%); IMMIGRATION (92%); MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); SEASONAL WORKERS (75%); REFUGEES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); LABOR SHORTAGES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); APPLE ORCHARDS (73%); HOTEL STAFF (69%) Agriculture; Migrant Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation; Agriculture; Agriculture

PERSON: Julia Preston

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%) California; Washington (State); New York State; United States; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



462 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: In China, Children of the Rich Learn Class, Minus the Struggle

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
Every weekday this summer, Rose Lei drove her daughter, Angelina, 5, to a golf complex at the edge of central Shanghai for a two-hour, $200 individual lesson with a teaching pro from Scotland. 
 But now that the school year has started, little Angelina will have to cut back on the golf, limiting herself to weekend sessions at a local driving range. In addition to her demanding school schedule, she will be attending private classes at FasTracKids, an after-school academy for children as young as 4 that bills itself as a junior M.B.A. program.
Ms. Lei, 35, a former information technology expert and the wife of a prosperous newspaper advertising executive, is part of a new generation of affluent parents here who are planning ways to cement their children's place in a fast-emerging elite.
 A generation ago, when people still dressed in monochromes and acquiring great wealth, never mind flaunting it, was generally illegal, the route to success was to join the right Communist Party youth organization or to attend one of the best universities. 
 Now the race starts early, with an emphasis not on ideology but on the skills and experiences the children will need in the elite life they are expected to lead. In addition to early golf training, which has become wildly popular, affluent parents are enrolling their children in everything from ballet and private music lessons, to classes in horse riding, ice-skating, skiing and even polo.
 The intense interest in lifestyle training speaks not just to parents' concern for their children's futures but also to a general sense of social insecurity among China's newly rich. 
 ''These people are rich economically but lacking in basic manners, and they are not very fond of their own reputation,'' said Wang Lianyi, an expert in comparative cultural studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, in Beijing. Of the 35 million Chinese who traveled overseas last year, he said, many were shocked to discover that they were often viewed as having bad manners.
 To address that, some of the newly affluent, like Ms. Lei, take their young children for extended stays overseas. London and New York are popular choices, because the children can get a head start on speaking Western-accented English.
 Others are signing up for finishing schools popping up in China, which promise to train youngsters how to become proper ladies and gentlemen in the highest Western tradition.
 The best known of these programs is run by a bluntly spoken Japanese woman, June Yamada, who charges about $900 for a two-week course that includes a brief stay at a five-star hotel here. Teenagers must bathe before dinner, take afternoon tea, wear formal dress and relearn how to walk, how to eat, how to dance and how to engage politely with members of the opposite sex.
 ''I don't just teach them what to do and what not to do, I teach the girls how to be women, and the boys how to be men,'' said Ms. Yamada, a former fashion writer who wrote a popular book on manners here. ''We're probably the most expensive school in Shanghai, but nobody is complaining and they keep coming back, so we must be doing something right.''
 Ms. Yamada said she insisted that a parent attend the classes with any student she accepted, ''because if the parent is spitting watermelon seeds or chicken bones right out of their mouth at home, what is the use of all the fine things we are teaching?''
 It is hard to say how many Chinese have the money to lavish such attention on their children, but the limited number of surveys that have been done and anecdotal evidence indicate that the number is exploding. 
 Gao Ruxi of Shanghai Jiao Tong University conducted research in 2003 that showed that 15.4 percent of the city's 17 million people -- about 2.6 million -- were rich enough to own a house and a vehicle.
 Another report, from a Chinese research group called Horizon, estimated that in 2003 there were 569,000 families or individuals in Shanghai with liquid assets of at least $62,500.
 FasTracKids, which started in Shanghai in 2004, has since opened two more outlets here and another in Guangzhou, and it is planning a fifth in Hangzhou. 
 The private program's after-school sessions are held in brightly decorated classrooms, where fewer than a dozen children, typically 4 or 5 years old, are taught by as many as three teachers. The program emphasizes scientific learning, problem solving and, most attractively for many parents, assertiveness.
 ''Parents like myself are worrying about China becoming a steadily more competitive society,'' said Zhong Yu, 36, a manufacturing supervisor whose wife is a senior accountant with an international firm and whose son 7-year-old son has been enrolled in the junior M.B.A. classes. ''Every day we see stories in the newspapers about graduates unable to find good jobs. Education in China is already good in the core subjects, but I want my son to have more creative thinking, because basic knowledge isn't sufficient anymore.'' 
 Mr. Zhong said that for all of their high salaries, he and his wife had very demanding jobs with little leisure time, and the bottom line for them was ''wanting our son to have a better life than we have had.'' 
 To some extent, the trend is driven by a collision of rising affluence and China's one-child policy, which forces parents to focus all their energy and resources on a single child. But experts say there is more at work, that it reflects fear of a new kind of rat race, in which the entire society is hustling for advancement.
 ''At the top of the pyramid will be exceptionally strong graduates from top American or European universities who become a sort of 'international freemen,' '' said Qiu Huadong, an author and editor who has written about the new elite. ''They work several years in China, and then they go abroad for a while, shifting locations every few years. At the bottom of the pyramid will be those who didn't get such an outstanding education, and they'll be sweating and bleeding for China and globalization.''
 Other experts say that for many others, the grooming schools, study abroad and lessons in elite sports like golf and polo are as much about a gnawing sense of social insecurity as they are about getting ahead.
 ''Americans respect people who came from nothing and made something of themselves, and they also respect rich people,'' Mr. Wang added. ''In China, people generally don't respect rich people, because there is a strong feeling that they are lacking in ethics. These new rich not only want money, they want people to respect them in the future.''
 Indeed, some of the newly well-to-do have broadened their quest for respectability, enlisting their children in charity activities at the same time as they push them into classes aimed at getting them ahead. 
 Shan Lei, 31, a homemaker and former investment specialist whose husband is a shipping executive, said the family had invested $100,000 in a golf-club membership and had introduced her daughter to the sport, along with piano and skating lessons. They also manage to squeeze in charity work with AIDS orphans.
 ''Golf is played by the upper classes, but I want her to recognize there is social diversity,'' said Ms. Lei, who is not related to Rose Lei. ''I want her to care for others in the society.''
 But there is little question that the driving force for most parents is the challenge of succeeding in an increasingly competitive society.
 ''My childhood was completely different from my daughter's,'' Rose Lei said. ''We didn't have things like FasTracKids or golfing, and that is why we want her to have those opportunities.'' Asked if she had other motives, like ensuring that her daughter joins the ranks of China's affluent class, she did not miss a beat. ''Yes, this is very important,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chinese students play with teachers in the FasTracKids program in Shanghai. The goal of the program is to teach teamwork and leadership skills. (Photo by Ariana Lindquist for The New York Times)(pg. A6)
 Living the good life in China: Angelina Lei, 5, begins training early. (Photo by Ryan Pyle for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (86%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); DANCE EDUCATION (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); SKIING (72%); BALLET (70%); DANCE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HORSES (66%); MUSIC (65%); TRENDS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (61%); PRINT ADVERTISING (54%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (54%); POLITICAL PARTIES (52%); ICE SKATING (50%) Children and Youth; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Howard W French

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; China; China

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



463 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Illegal Workers Supplant U.S. Ones, Report Says

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
New illegal immigrants accounted for 56 percent of the increase in employed workers in the United States in the five years after 2000, and competition from these immigrants contributed to a sharp decline in employment of teenage and young adult Americans, according to a labor market study released yesterday. 
 The survey found that in the five-year period, foreign-born workers, including both legal and illegal immigrants, made up 86 percent of the net increase in the total number of employed workers, the highest share for immigrants ever recorded in this country.
 At the same time, the number of employed native workers ages 16 to 34 fell by more than 1.5 million. The study contends that 90 percent of the job deficit for young Americans would be erased if American teenagers and young adults held the jobs that immigrants now hold. 
 The study was carried out by Andrew Sum, Paul Harrington and Ishwar Khatiwada from the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston and was published by the Center for Immigration Studies, a group in Washington that advocates reducing immigration. 
 Last month a study by the Pew Hispanic Center, another Washington research organization, concluded that there was no nationwide pattern of displacement of American workers by immigrants. 
 Several economists noted that the past five years had been marked by a slow economic recovery that created unusually few jobs for all workers in the United States. They said that several factors contributed to declining employment among young people and that an increase in the number of youths going to college was one.
 Employment rates have plummeted for young black men without high school diplomas.
 ''They face tremendous barriers, but immigrant competition is not the biggest one,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a Washington group that focuses on labor issues. ''If immigrant competition were to drop significantly, they would still have big problems.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%) Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Refugees; Children and Youth

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%) Center for Labor Market Studies 

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (50%) Julia Preston

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



464 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Insurance Horror Stories

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
''When Steve and Leslie Shaeffer's daughter, Selah, was diagnosed at age 4 with a potentially fatal tumor in her jaw, they figured their health insurance would cover the bulk of her treatment costs.'' But ''shortly after Selah's medical bills hit $20,000, Blue Cross stopped covering them and eventually canceled her coverage retroactively.''
 So begins a recent report in The Los Angeles Times titled ''Sick but Insured? Think Again,'' which offers a series of similar horror stories, and suggests that these stories represent a growing trend: more and more health insurers are finding ways to yank your insurance when you get sick. 
This trend helps explain something that has been puzzling me: why is the health insurance industry growing rapidly, even as it covers fewer Americans? 
 Between 2000 and 2005, the number of Americans with private health insurance coverage fell by 1 percent. But over the same period, employment at health insurance companies rose a remarkable 32 percent. What are all those extra employees doing? 
 Now we know at least part of the answer: they're working harder than ever at identifying people who really need medical care, and ensuring that they don't get it. In the past, they mainly concentrated on screening out applicants likely to get sick. Now, it seems, they're also devoting a lot of effort to finding pretexts for revoking insurance after they've already granted it. They typically do this by claiming that they weren't notified about some pre-existing condition, even if the insured wasn't aware of that condition when he or she bought the policy. 
 Welcome to the ugly world of American health care economics.
 Health care is poised to become America's largest industry. Employment in manufacturing, which once dominated the economy, has fallen 18 percent since 2000, to 14.2 million. Meanwhile, employment in the private health services industry has risen 16 percent, to 12.6 million. Another 1.3 million people are employed at government hospitals. So we're quickly approaching the point at which more Americans will be employed delivering health care than are employed producing manufactured goods. 
 Yet even as health care becomes the core of the American economy, our system of paying for health care remains sick, and is getting sicker. 
 Because everyone faces some risk of incurring huge medical costs, only the superrich can afford to be without health insurance. Yet private insurers try to refuse coverage to those most likely to need it, and deny payment whenever they can get away with it.
 The point isn't that they're evil or greedy (although you do wonder how the people who cut off the Schaeffers can look themselves in the mirror). The fact is that cruelty and injustice are the inevitable result of the current rules of the game. Blue Shield of California is a nonprofit insurance provider, yet as a spokesman put it, if his organization doesn't follow the for-profit practice of selectively covering only the healthiest people, ''we will end up with all the high-risk people.'' 
 Now, before you panic about the state of your own coverage, you should know that the horror stories in The Los Angeles Times article all involve individual insurance; if your coverage comes via your employer, you're reasonably secure against sudden cancellation. 
 But employment-based insurance is in rapid decline, as employers balk at the cost and more and more companies adopt Wal-Mart-style minimal-benefit policies. That's why many people are turning to individual insurance -- only to find out, in some cases, that they didn't get what they thought they paid for. 
 And here's the thing: it's all unnecessary.
 Every other wealthy nation manages to provide almost all its citizens with guaranteed health insurance, while spending less on health care than we do. And there's no mystery why: we're paying the price for pointless, destructive reliance on private insurers. Medicare, which is a universal health insurance program for older Americans, spends less than 2 cents of every dollar on administrative costs, leaving 98 cents to pay for medical care. By contrast, private insurance companies spend only around 80 cents of each dollar in premiums on medical care; much of the remaining 20 cents is spent denying insurance to those who need it. 
 If we had a universal system -- Medicare for everyone -- there would be no more horror stories like those reported by The Los Angeles Times. And we'd almost certainly spend less on health care than we do now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



465 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Fans Lament the Decline And Fall of the Orioles

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Some day the Baltimore Orioles will be remembered as the American League version of the Cincinnati Reds. How's that?
 The Reds were the last team to win the National League West championship before the Atlanta Braves began their unparalleled run of 14 consecutive division titles. The Orioles were the last team to win the American League East title before the Yankees began their ongoing streak of nine straight first-place finishes.
The Orioles in first place? The memory fades, it was so long ago. 
 The Orioles have faded, too. Since they finished first in 1997, their standing has fallen, their payroll has dropped and their attendance has plummeted. Their fans, who used to cram Camden Yards, long for the good old days, and many of them took to the streets around the park yesterday to deliver their message to Peter Angelos, the owner. 
 ''There are so many complaints,'' said Nestor Aparicio, organizer of the protest and owner of the sports talk-radio station WNST. ''The community feels helpless, betrayed. We're on 14 hours a day, and the other day I said, 'Let's talk about last night's Orioles game,' and we didn't get a single phone call.'' 
 When Angelos spoke on the telephone yesterday, at about the time the protesters were gathering at bars on two sides of Camden Yards, he did not seem fazed by the demonstration. He rejected its legitimacy, saying, without mentioning his name, that Aparicio was running it to enhance his talk show. 
 ''This fellow, who has been going on for a number of years in a thoroughly irresponsible way, has a call-in show, I think,'' Angelos said.
 Aparicio, who said he is a distant cousin of the Orioles Hall of Famer Luis Aparicio, said, ''This is not a publicity stunt for the radio station.''
 Stunt or not, The Associated Press reported that nearly 1,000 fans walked out of the park en masse during the fourth inning of yesterday's game against Detroit. Aparicio estimated the number at 2,500.
 In better days, at the start of the Camden Yards era, the Orioles drew more than 3 million fans for nine full seasons in a row, reaching 3.7 million in the 1997 championship season. In the last four years of that economically robust period, the Orioles finished in fourth place, and by the fourth fourth-place finish, attendance was barely above 3 million.
 This season the attendance is headed for the lowest total (less than 2.2 million) since 1988, the season in which the Orioles lost their first 21 games. The Orioles won the A.L. East title in 1997 with a $64 million payroll, second in the major leagues to the Yankees' $67 million. The Orioles' payroll remained second to the Yankees the next two years, but then began plummeting -- in successive seasons to 5th, 12th, 14th, 15th and 21st in 2004.
 They began this season with a $72 million payroll, according to commissioner's office compilations, up from $51 million in 2004.
 ''We're doing the best we can with a $75 million payroll,'' Angelos said. ''It's tough to deal with teams that have double the payroll or triple. We expect to be increasing that payroll to compete.''
 How much of an increase?
 ''In order to be competitive in the American League East,'' the owner said, ''you have to spend $100 million at a minimum, unless you push the right buttons and have the insight that Billy Beane and Terry Ryan have.''
 Angelos, who doesn't care for the title general manager, referred to the general managers of the Oakland Athletics and the Minnesota Twins, who are among the best in the business, putting together low-payroll teams that perennially contend.
 General managers have not lasted long during Angelos's 13-year ownership. He has either fired them or alienated them. Most often he has made their lives difficult by imposing a stifling oversight. 
 His reputation is such that he is even reported to do things he may not be responsible for. One person with knowledge of a recent deal said Angelos prevented a July 30 trade that would have sent shortstop Miguel Tejada to Houston for a package of players, including pitcher Roy Oswalt, whom they were then supposed to send elsewhere, most likely the Mets. 
 Angelos said yesterday the Orioles didn't want to trade Tejada for a player, Oswalt, who could be a free agent after this season, but he didn't acknowledge killing the trade. The general manager of another team said it was not Angelos's move that killed the deal. 
 But Angelos does have a reputation among agents for turning off free agents. Player agents, who did not want to be identified so they wouldn't hurt future negotiations, said Angelos's low-ball offers annoy players, who then look for jobs elsewhere. Those same agents said that with the owner looking over their shoulders, his general managers are unable to pursue free agents aggressively.
 Angelos also doesn't like to pay draft choices large bonuses, forcing the Orioles to select lower-rated, less expensive amateurs.
 Like many other teams, the Orioles planned to build a program in the Dominican Republic, but it has been on hold for years because Angelos has been reluctant to spend the necessary funds.
 Speaking generally of player signings or moves, Angelos said: ''I don't stop anything. We have discussions, what it's going to cost, what it's going to look like and what the prospects are for it to be a successful trade. If the consensus is there, we'll do it.''
 One positive development has been the absence of Angelos's sons, John and Lou, from the team's operation. Earlier in Angelos's ownership, the sons, especially John, were involved and not productively. 
 And Angelos sees signs of improvement, most notably with the team's young pitchers, headed by Erik Bedard. ''I think we have the makings of a first-class pitching staff,'' he said. ''We have four young pitchers who are doing well. If their talent and commitment hold true, I think in a year or two they'll be one of the best pitching staffs in the American League.''
 The fans can't wait.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Orioles defeated the Tigers, but fans at Camden Yards showed their disappointment. (Photo by Gail Burton/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (94%); CINCINNATI REDS (93%); DETROIT TIGERS (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%) Baltimore Orioles

PERSON: Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%) GEORGIA, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



466 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Group to Propose Changes to Yards Project 

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
A group of neighborhood and civic associations will propose a series of changes to Brooklyn's controversial Atlantic Yards real estate development this weekend, taking a new tack in the bitter debate over the project. The effort will diverge markedly from the strategy of other project skeptics, notably Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, a coalition of neighborhood groups taking a harder line against the development.
 The group will prescribe substantial reductions in the project's size and an increase in the percentage of subsidized housing allotted to poor families, among other changes, but will not take a position against eminent domain. 
''Nobody's happy with the way eminent domain has been used in this project, but that's a legal issue, not a mitigation issue,'' said Gib Veconi of the Prospect Heights Neighborhood Development Council, part of the group.
 Leaders of Develop Don't Destroy, who have also called for the project to be scaled back, insist that it should not be built at all if it requires eminent domain.
 The groups, including the Pratt Area Community Council, the Municipal Art Society, the Boerum Hill Association and the Park Slope Civic Council, will unveil the proposed changes on a new Web site, BrooklynSpeaks.net, on Saturday, with less than a week until a state-mandated public comment period ends.
 Members of BrooklynSpeaks.net say they hope to create room for negotiation in the highly polarized debate between the project's developer, Forest City Ratner Companies, and its most vocal critics, focusing on mitigating the project's impact rather than blocking it altogether.
 ''We know that there are many people out there who don't want to be forced into a love-it-or-hate-it position, but believe it needs to be changed,'' said Jo Anne Simon, who heads the Boerum Hill Association's Atlantic Yards task force.
 Joe DePlasco, a spokesman for Forest City, said that the developer was ''pleased to see that these groups want to talk about ways to improve what we believe is a very exciting project for the people of Brooklyn. We look forward to meeting with them and discussing their ideas.''
 Forest City is the development partner on the new headquarters for The New York Times Company.
 Leaders of several neighborhood organizations said yesterday that they had begun discussions with the Municipal Art Society in June after the society sponsored a public critique of the project's design. Some of the society's proposed design principles, including scaling back the project's square footage and limiting the closing of city streets to create a ''superblock,'' will be included in the new set of proposals.
 In June, Develop Don't Destroy officials criticized the art society, saying that by not disavowing the planned arena or the eminent domain required to build it, the society had conceded too much to the developer. Daniel Goldstein, the spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy, echoed those criticisms yesterday.
 ''One of their key principles is to respect the neighborhood,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''And by ignoring eminent domain and the arena, they are disrespecting the neighborhood.'' He said the arena could not be built without eliminating some city streets.
 The new effort follows a series of legal and political setbacks for opponents of the project. A lawsuit filed against the project in January by Develop Don't Destroy and several of the groups now involved with BrooklynSpeaks.net has been stymied in court. And in several Democratic primaries in Brooklyn this month, candidates who had campaigned strongly against the project were defeated by candidates supporting it.
 All of the groups involved in BrooklynSpeaks.net remain critical of the current plan for the yards, which would place an 8.7 million-square-foot residential, office and arena complex on a 22-acre site near Downtown Brooklyn. They say they will oppose the project's approval by state authorities unless significant changes are made.
 Kent Barwick, the president of the art society, said the new Web site was an attempt to find ''the reasonable middle ground.''
 ''This is the voices of many different Brooklyn groups,'' Mr. Barwick said, ''uniting around a set of principles that could be described as not stopping the project, but fixing it, so that it works for Brooklyn.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); WEB SITES (51%) Area Planning and Renewal; Housing

COMPANY: RATNER COS (66%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Forest City Ratner

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (66%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (62%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (62%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%)

PERSON: Nicholas Confessore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Atlantic Yards (Brooklyn)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



467 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Abuse Charge Filed Against Father Who Claimed His Son Had Cystic Fibrosis

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Five years ago, Michael F. Bradway of Cornwall, Conn., told his in-laws that their grandson was gravely ill and might not live very long. His son had received a diagnosis of cystic fibrosis, he said, and needed expensive care. 
 He asked them for financial help, and they gave him $38,000. He urged his wife to work full time to help with the medical costs for the condition, which can be fatal. He hinted that the boy, now 9, might need a lung transplant. 
Mr. Bradway told the principal at his son's school, in Salisbury, Conn., that he had to take his medicine every two hours and that the medication schedule was why he had missed 142 days of class. He also said his religion barred his son from being vaccinated. 
 All the claims were lies, according to the Connecticut authorities, and yesterday Mr. Bradway was charged in State Superior Court in Bantam, Conn., with child abuse, forgery and larceny. The judge ordered him held on $500,000 bond and, because Mr. Bradway apparently tried to killed himself, he was placed him on a suicide watch. 
 The son was thin and undernourished but otherwise healthy, and once he was removed from his father's custody in March last year, he quickly gained weight, the authorities said. He lives with his mother, Erika Hollander, who is now divorced from Mr. Bradway. 
 ''This is the worst case of child abuse that I've seen in my career,'' said the prosecutor, John M. Massameno, an assistant state's attorney. ''It's extraordinary.'' 
 The authorities said that Mr. Bradway, who has variously said he is 38 and 45, fabricated medical bills as proof of the boy's conditionand kept him from eating meat, fruits and vegetables to make him look sickly. The boy, who is now 9, grew up believing that he was ill, according to court documents, and rarely exercised or mingled with children.
 Mr. Bradway's story drew critical attention after Ms. Hollander began to suspect that he was mistreating their son and contacted a lawyer, who went to the authorities. 
 ''We're talking about a very controlling, very glib, very adept man who was able to convince everybody, including my client, that he had this child's interest at heart,'' said J. Michael Sconyers, a lawyer for Ms. Hollander. 
 ''I wonder what his end-game was, what he was trying to accomplish,'' Mr. Sconyers said. ''I guess he must have some pretty serious psychological problems.''
 A motive is still unclear. There is a mental disorder known as Munchausen syndrome by proxy, in which sufferers claim that another person, often their child, has a serious medical condition, possibly as a way to win attention, but Mr. Massameno rejected the notion that the disorder was the problem in this case. 
 ''I couldn't find one case where Munchausen was included with an ulterior motive, an economic motive,'' said Mr. Massameno, who added that he had extensively researched the disorder.
 The authorities said Mr. Bradway has a long criminal record associated with economic motives. 
 In 1993, he was convicted of embezzling $55,000 from a discount store where he had worked in western Massachusetts, court records show. Since then, he has 15 arrests and convictions, most involving the misuse of other people's money, Mr. Massameno said. He also served a year in jail in Massachusetts in 1994, after he posed as a licensed broker and took $167,000 from a group of unsuspecting investors. 
 Mr. Bradway's father, Frederick, who lives in West Springfield, Mass., told investigators that his son is ''screwed up'' and ''lies like a rug,'' and that he was once treated for bipolar disorder, according to an affidavit. 
 Others who did not know him so well, however, took Mr. Bradway's claims at face value.
 In 2003, a Massachusetts philanthropist, John Hoyt Stookey, rented a small office to Mr. Bradway at the building that houses his nonprofit group, Landmark Volunteers, in the town of Sheffield, in the Berkshires.
 According to Mr. Stookey, Mr. Bradway said that he had a consulting firm at the World Trade Center, but that the firm was destroyed and his business partner killed in the 9/11 attacks. He also listed degrees from Yale and Harvard Law School on his resume, and said he was working on a book to be published by Princeton. None of it turned out to be true, he said.
 Mr. Bradway apparently tried to kill himself on Wednesday, according to the authorities.
 He took sleeping pills, sliced his wrists, tied a belt around his neck and lay in a water-filled bathtub, which is where the police found him after his current wife, Anne Scott, called 911, Mr. Massameno said. The police took Mr. Bradway from his home to a nearby hospital, but the cuts were superficial and did not require hospitalization.
 Mr. Bradway will undergo a psychiatric evaluation while in detention, Mr. Massameno said. A hearing is scheduled for Oct. 6, when Mr. Bradway is expected to enter a plea. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYSTIC FIBROSIS (92%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); LAWYERS (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); CHILDREN (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); LARCENY & THEFT (73%); COUNTERFEITING (72%); SUICIDE (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); JUDGES (68%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (55%) Child Abuse and Neglect; Forgery ; Frauds and Swindling; Cystic Fibrosis

PERSON: Fernanda Santos; Michael F Bradway

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%) Bantam (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



468 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
BEINBRINK, ROBERT

 BODY:
 BEINBRINK--Robert , Long Time Manhasset Resident Robert C. Beinbrink, 84, of Hilton Head and formerly of Manhasset, N.Y. passed away on Monday, September 18, 2006 at his home. He was born on April 11,1922 in Richmond Hill, N.Y. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1943 with a BS of Economics. He was a member of the Friars Society, Phi Sigma Kappa, Kite and Key, Scabbard and Blade, Army ROTC and the Varsity Crew Boat Club. 
He assumed command in 1943 as a Second Lieutenant USAAF assigned to the Pacific Command in the Philippines. A decorated soldier he left the service in 1946. He was a principal in the Beinbrink Paper Company, Floral Park, N.Y, and spent his ca-reer in the paper industry including Westvaco Paper N.Y. In May 1943 he married Shirley Wiegert of Woodhaven, N.Y. They settled in Roslyn Heights, N.Y. then on to Manhasset, N.Y. where their three children were raised. He was one of the early members of the Congregational Church of Manhasset and served for a time as Chair of its Board of Deacons. He was a founder of the Manhasset Joggers and ac-tive in the Boy Scouts, Rotary, Masons and YMCA. While in Hilton Head he rediscovered his love of rowing and joined the Palmetto Rowing Club. He is preceded in death by his son Jeffrey R. Beinbrink, Capt. USN. In addition to his wife, his is survived by son and daughter in law Glenn and Julie Beinbrink of Charleston. S.C, daughter and son in law Nancy and Charlie Gilman of Manhasset, N.Y., daughter in law Barbara Beinbrink of San Diego. He leaves seven grandchildren Andrew and William Beinbrink, of San Diego, Peter, Douglas and Kate Gilman of Manhasset, N.Y and Wade and Garrett Beinbrink of Charleston. S. C. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (77%); ROWING (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING (74%); PAPER MFG (74%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); ARMIES (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MEADWESTVACO CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); PHI SIGMA KAPPA (57%)

TICKER: MWV (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424120 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS322212 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOX MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (56%); SIC2657 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOXES, INCLUDING SANITARY (56%); SIC2653 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOXES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (90%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (90%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (66%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



469 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Branson Pledges Billions to Help Develop Clean Fuels

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN and HEATHER TIMMONS; Andrew C. Revkin reported from New York and Heather Timmons from London.

 BODY:
Sir Richard Branson, the British magnate and adventurer, said yesterday that his personal profits from airlines and a rail company that he controls -- a sum he estimated at $3 billion over the next 10 years -- would be invested in developing energy sources that do not contribute to global warming.
 He announced the plan on the second day of the Clinton Global Initiative, a three-day meeting in Manhattan that amounts to a competitive festival of philanthropy run by former President Bill Clinton. 
The money, Sir Richard said, would be invested in a host of alternative energy enterprises, including existing businesses within his Virgin Group, which consists of about 200 different companies connected in some way to Sir Richard's sprawling corporate empire. 
 ''Our generation has inherited an incredibly beautiful world from our parents and they from their parents,'' Sir Richard said. ''It is in our hands whether our children and their children inherit the same world. We must not be the generation responsible for irreversibly damaging the environment.''
 Several people working in climate research said the pledge appeared to be the largest individual commitment of money aimed at avoiding dangerous climate change by reducing dependence on fossil fuels that add to the atmosphere's load of carbon dioxide, the main heat-trapping greenhouse gas linked by scientists to rising temperatures.
 But it was not clear how much money will ultimately go to the effort, because the businesses involved cannot necessarily count on generating as much in profits as Sir Richard has set as his goal. 
 Sir Richard said his companies were already engaged in developing an aviation fuel not derived from oil, along with better processes for making bio-fuels from grasses and other crops. Conventional bio-fuels now require a great deal of fossil fuel to manufacture. 
 Sir Richard said the prime goal was not making money, but financing research on ways to provide energy in a world of growing populations and economies without overheating the planet.
 ''Some will be profitable, some will not be profitable,'' he said at a news conference. ''But the only way global warming is going to be beaten is to invest in new fuels that can actually replace fossil fuels.''
 Ted Turner, one of the progenitors of 10-figure philanthropy with his $1 billion pledge to the United Nations in 1997, called Sir Richard's plan a ''brilliant move,'' both as an investment and as a way to protect the global environment.
 ''I'm looking to make investments in renewable clean energy myself,'' Mr. Turner said. ''He'll probably make more money off of this than he would off the airlines themselves.'' 
 Sir Richard (he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth in 1999 for promotion of entrepreneurship) is a household name in Britain, where he is known for outlandish self-promotional stunts, an avant-garde approach to business and a voracious appetite for new ventures, no matter how small or unusual. 
 Now 56, he began his career at 20 with a mail-order record business. It expanded into a record label that put out the first recording of the Sex Pistols, and went on to distribute Genesis, UB40 and others. Virgin Music was sold in 1992 for $1 billion. 
 His private company, Virgin Group, has played the parent to a host of different Virgin ventures from airlines to mobile phones to wine sales and railroads. The emphasis is always on presenting customers with a different, more entertaining way of doing something -- often accompanied by blatantly sexy advertising or marketing. 
 Sir Richard usually owns a big chunk of most of these new companies. The complicated and often private books of the companies, some of which are registered offshore, are difficult for most outsiders to penetrate.
 Like any entrepreneur, he has had some high-profile failures, like Virgin Cola, and a reality television show that never attracted much of an audience. But he has had equally high-profile successes. This year, for example, he sold Virgin Mobile in a deal that personally netted Sir Richard $:690 million ($1.3 billion) in cash and stock. 
 His list of promotional stunts is long. He has dressed as a bride, a stewardess, a can of soda and a pirate. He has posed nearly nude in Times Square (to promote Virgin Mobile's lack of hidden fees), and flown to press conferences via jet pack or dangling from wires off helicopters. Plans to sail around the world in a balloon were scrapped after several tries. 
 Like Donald Trump, to whom he is sometimes compared, Sir Richard usually operates with partners who often put up much of the money for his ventures. The transportation assets are co-owned by Sir Richard and other investors: Singapore Airlines owns 49 percent of Virgin Atlantic, for example.
 Virgin Blue, the Australian carrier, is publicly traded, though Sir Richard retains a stake, as is Virgin Express, the European carrier. 
 In addition to the profits pledged to the effort, said Will Whitehorn, a Virgin Group spokesman, any money earned from sales of equity stakes in these businesses will be invested in the fuel ventures as well. He added that the group had already raised $300 million toward the investment, by selling thetrainline.com, a British Web site for selling train tickets.
 Many experts say private and government research on nonpolluting energy options has lagged, even in the face of growing evidence of risks from rising concentrations of greenhouse gases. Should Sir Richard's money flow as pledged, the research effort could end up exceeding similar efforts by individual governments. 
 In February, President Bush announced a bio-fuels initiative for 2007 of $150 million, nearly a 60 percent increase over spending on such fuels in the previous budget. 
 The overall United States budget for research in renewable energy sources like wind, solar, hydrogen and farmed fuels is a bit over $1 billion a year, but that amount is far less than what was spent during the oil shock of the 1970's. 
 And while drug and semiconductor companies typically invest 10 percent or more of revenue into research, in the energy industry the typical research budget is about 0.3 percent of revenue, said Daniel M. Kammen, an energy expert at the University of California, Berkeley. 
 Kathleen D. McCarthy, director of the Center for the Study of Philanthropy at the City University of New York Graduate Center, said the scale, duration and style of Sir Richard's pledge were indicative of a deep shift in the way wealthy people were pursuing a legacy. 
 ''This is all new -- the scale, the vision, the techniques and the decentralized nature of it,'' she said. ''Branson is also specifically focusing on an issue that's not being adequately addressed.''
 Sir Richard said his new commitment grew out of a visit to his London home a few months ago by former Vice President Al Gore, who is on a prolonged worldwide speaking tour to promote ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' his documentary and book about global warming.
 ''You are in a position maybe to make a difference,'' Sir Richard said Mr. Gore told him. ''If you can make a giant step forward other people will follow.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir Richard Branson, right, announced his intentions yesterday at the Clinton Global Initiative, run by former President Bill Clinton. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BIOMASS (89%); BIOFUELS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); AIRLINES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); POPULATION GROWTH (65%) Weather; Philanthropy; Motion Pictures; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Weather; Documentary Films and Programs; Weather

COMPANY: VIRGIN GROUP LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Virgin Group

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (94%); BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (56%) Andrew C Revkin; Heather Timmons; Richard Branson; Al Gore; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



470 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: In China, People See Paulson and Think of Goldman

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
When a student asked Henry M. Paulson Jr. at Tsinghua University on Thursday to explain the secret of the success of Goldman Sachs, he apologetically demurred. ''I'm here as Treasury secretary,'' he said. ''I'm no longer the chairman and C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs.''
 But the remarks of just about everyone Mr. Paulson met during his visit this week showed that he still carried a glow from his old job on Wall Street, which he left with a personal wealth estimated at $700 million after three decades of deals across the world -- including China, which he has visited more than 60 times. 
 Though Mr. Paulson did not want to boast about Goldman Sachs to his student questioner, he frequently recalled his business experience to explain why he understood the importance of patience, consensus building and the long view in making deals in China.
 ''Like everyone else I know who has spent some time here, I am a huge proponent and believer in the Chinese economy,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''But my own view is that you can't take the past successes and just assume that it's going to keep going like this.''
 The centerpiece of his visit to China was an announcement of a new ''dialogue'' to focus on broad issues and make it easier to resolve disputes about trade, currency and what the United States asserts has been piracy of American movies, software and pharmaceutical products. United States officials acknowledge that it is too soon to tell when this dialogue will yield results. 
 Mr. Paulson said that it was understandable that people would continue to associate him with his former life.
 ''It's not surprising because I was here in another role, and people know me in that role,'' he said during an interview. ''I have made a total switch. I'm now representing the U.S. government, the citizens of the United States.''
 He noted that he had called colleagues from competing firms after he became Treasury secretary to assure them that he would be pressing the interests of all of them, not just those of Goldman Sachs. 
 Mr. Paulson said that he was trying to be ''unusually careful'' not to make it appear that he was still identified with his former firm. He also said he did not mind telling people that his experience had made him ''better able now to represent my government and the American people.''
 Mr. Paulson is scheduled to wind up his first visit to China as Treasury secretary on Friday with a visit with President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, an unusually high-level reception for an American Treasury secretary and one that American officials acknowledge is a testimony to the Chinese leaders' regard for his past role along with his current one.
 In Hangzhou, for instance, a provincial Communist Party leader showed Mr. Paulson around a lakeside cottage where President Richard Nixon stayed in 1972. Walking along the lush, fragrant pathways next to the lake, Mr. Paulson said he hoped that Goldman Sachs could come in and do still more lucrative deals. 
 The past successes of Goldman Sachs in China have certainly been impressive. With Mr. Paulson's participation, the firm completed several huge privatization deals over the last decade, advising state-owned enterprises on sales of big businesses to private investors. 
 The deal to take China Telecom private in 1997 raised $4.2 billion from investors, the Petro China deal in 2000 raised $3 billion, and a stake in Bank of China went private last year, raising $10 billion. In June, Mr. Paulson agreed to sell some investment funds that held a stake in Industrial and Commercial Bank of China. 
 It was thus not hard to see why Mr. Paulson was popular everywhere he went, mostly to meet with people like entrepreneurs, business students and pro-capitalist officials. The deals that made Goldman Sachs rich also made many Chinese rich, a good foundation for friendship in any culture. 
 The problem with Mr. Paulson's visit this time, of course, was that he was not here to make deals or even to make people happy. 
 He was here to warn China that if it wanted its prosperity to continue, it had to take some short-term steps that might be painful.
 ''Paulson takes the view that if China takes certain steps, they would gain in the long run,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the International Institute of Economics in Washington. ''But the gains are not as tangible as the deals that he could make at Goldman Sachs. He's asking the Chinese to take it on faith.''
 Even Mr. Hu, for example, is considered a tough customer for Mr. Paulson's message as he faces a restless populace that could become more resentful if unemployment rises in response to the changes the United States seeks.
 Basically, Mr. Paulson is asking the Chinese to slow their exports to the United States by stopping their practice of suppressing the value of their currency to hold down the prices of goods China ships abroad. He also wants to loosen the grip of the Communist Party on China's banks, making their loan practices subject more to the demands of the marketplace and less to those of political leaders in the provinces.
 Both steps could lead to short-term contractions of business and the economy, particularly in the provinces. But Mr. Hu is said by Americans to be less of a believer in competitive capitalism than his predecessor, Jiang Zemin, whom Mr. Paulson recalled Thursday as truly intrigued by the idea of how market economies work. 
 Mr. Paulson said that he remembered the first time he visited Mr. Jiang during the 1990's and he tried to impress him with his knowledge of how capitalism works.
 ''He told me, in English, 'Assets equal liability plus equity,' '' Mr. Paulson recalled. ''I'm not sure most Americans would understand that.''
 Even though he is on a first-name basis with old friends like Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of China's central bank, with whom he had dinner in Singapore, Mr. Paulson emphasized his transition from investment banker to Treasury secretary.
 ''Let me say we should not underestimate that I am wearing a different hat now,'' Mr. Paulson said this week. ''I think one of the challenges I have in general will be to translate the experience I have at Goldman Sachs into my new job, and to also be smart enough to know that everything isn't translatable and that I have a lot to learn.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day last Friday about reaction in China to a visit by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. misattributed a comment about possible economic development there by Goldman Sachs, which Mr. Paulson once headed. It was a provincial Communist Party leader in Hangzhou -- not Mr. Paulson -- who said he hoped that Goldman Sachs would continue to bring lucrative deals to the region. (As the article and an accompanying caption noted, Mr. Paulson pointed out many times during his visit that he was no longer chief executive of Goldman Sachs, and that he was not there to make deals for the investment bank.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry M. Paulson, the Treasury secretary, told students at Tsinghua University in Beijing yesterday that his new role is to represent the United States in negotiations with China, not make deals for Goldman Sachs. (Photo by Elizabeth Dalziel/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); TRENDS (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); FILM (50%) United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%); HU JINTAO (77%); WEN JIABAO (54%) Steven R Weisman; Henry M Jr Paulson; Hu Jintao (Pres); Wen Jiabao (Prime Min)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



471 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Bush Leads New Offensive Featuring Economy and Linking Democrats to High Taxes

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Adam Nagourney contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Sept. 21 

 BODY:
President Bush began a blistering new political offensive on Thursday, asserting that if Democrats won control of Congress from Republicans it would mean higher taxes, less money in the pockets of working families and damage to the economy. 
 The speech by Mr. Bush here, in which he belittled Democrats as ''the party of high taxes,'' signaled what Republicans described as a new phase of the White House's fall campaign, as Republicans begin to combine their emphasis on national security with a tough new emphasis on the issue that unites them more than any other, taxes.
Mr. Bush's offensive was backed up by a flood of television advertisements on behalf of Republican candidates. 
 ''If they get control of the House of Representatives, they'll raise your taxes, it will hurt our economy, and that's why we're not going to let them get control of the House of Representatives,'' the president said at a fund-raising event at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa for Gus Bilirakis, a Republican state representative running for Congress.
 ''The Democrats have made their position clear,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I want you to remember the last time they had control of the United States Congress back in 1993, they passed a massive tax increase.'' 
 Mr. Bush's words were echoed in advertisements that have been showing up on the airwaves, in mailings to voters' homes and in e-mail sent to their computers. This new offensive reflects what Republicans have said is the power they see in the tax issue, in motivating both Republican base voters -- who have seemed particularly dispirited this year -- and independents. 
 Republican officials said they had been scouring the voting records of Democrats running for re-election, in search of ways to press the issue.
 ''Sherrod Brown has voted for higher taxes over 35 times,'' an announcer says in a television advertisement shown this week in Ohio, attacking Mr. Brown, a Democratic member of Congress who is challenging Senator Mike DeWine. Mr. Brown's face is shown amid a grid of television screens displaying the word ''tax'' as the announcer lists various taxes Mr. Brown supported.
 ''Liberal Melissa Bean has not supported making the tax cuts permanent,'' says a mailing attacking Representative Melissa Bean, Democrat of Illinois, that was produced by the National Republican Congressional Committee. ''Can you afford this tax increase?''
 ''Taxes have always been a good message in ads for us,'' said Carl Forti, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee. ''We're on the air in 18 districts now, and 8 of them are on taxes.''
 Many Democrats are on record calling for some or all of Mr. Bush's tax cuts to be rolled back, especially those benefiting the wealthiest taxpayers. 
 But Democrats said that Republicans were distorting Democratic positions on taxes affecting the middle class and that by this point, Republican attacks on tax cuts had become so familiar to voters that they would not have much effect.
 ''Our candidates have all announced they're for middle-class tax proposals,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois, who is leading the Democratic effort to take back the House. 
 Referring to Mr. Bush's comments, Mr. Emanuel said: ''This is from a guy who ran up three trillion in debt and has submitted a deficit every year for the last five years. If I were him, I wouldn't be throwing stones in a glass house.''
 In Pennsylvania, Chris Carney, a Democratic challenger to Representative Don Sherwood, a Republican, is running an advertisement this week pushing back on Mr. Sherwood's criticism of him as supporting tax increases. 
 ''The truth is I'm for middle-class tax cuts,'' Mr. Carney says in the advertisement. ''Truth is, I'm for a new-baby tax credit. These attacks are another example of Sherwood bringing Washington politics back to Pennsylvania.''
 After a series of presidential addresses and events meant to put Democrats on the defensive about national security this month, the speeches here and in Tampa were the second phase of an election-year plan to stave off a Democratic takeover of Congress.
 Some of the pages of this White House script may seem familiar. The attack on taxes, for instance, was reminiscent of the way the White House tried to use the legislative record of Senator John Kerry in the 2004 presidential campaign, culling all possible votes to try to paint him as a serial tax raiser.
 Mr. Bush on Thursday presented a new set of numbers, saying that 95 percent of House Democrats voted against his tax cuts in 2003 and that 92 percent voted against extending his tax cuts this year. 
 Democrats said they did not fear the new assault and welcomed a fight on economic issues.
 Mr. Brown, in Ohio, responded to a Republican advertisement with his own attack posted on his Web site. He criticized Mr. DeWine as supporting ''tax breaks for the rich.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush attending a fund-raiser yesterday in Tampa. (Photo by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (88%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FAMILY (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); FUNDRAISING (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%) Election Issues; Political Advertising; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); SHERROD BROWN (79%); MELISSA L BEAN (58%); GUS M BILIRAKIS (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



472 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Faso Unveils New Tax Plans With Cuts of $11 Billion

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: BOLTON LANDING, N.Y., Sept. 21 

 BODY:
John Faso, the Republican candidate for governor, laid out an $11 billion tax cut plan Thursday that he said would reduce income taxes across the board and eliminate taxes on capital gains and dividend income, as well as taxes on new capital investment in the state. 
 He also said he would seek to freeze state spending in his first year in office and after that would not accept spending increases exceeding the rate of inflation. 
 Despite the broad budgetary powers of the governor's office, the Legislature would be likely to chafe at such austerity, given that they have become accustomed to Gov. George E. Pataki's signing budgets with spending levels well above inflation. 
 ''The public is demanding change,'' Mr. Faso said. ''The situation of upstate cities is dire. They are in a fiscal death spiral because the private sector is not able to keep up with the rising cost of government.''
 Mr. Faso and his Democratic opponent, Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, both spoke Thursday morning at the annual meeting of the Business Council of New York State, which was held at the Sagamore Hotel in this Adirondack town, and both tailored their proposals to an audience of business executives. 
 Mr. Spitzer, who has a commanding lead in the polls, outlined several proposals aimed at reducing the cost of doing business in the state, including overhauling the workers' compensation system and creating a new inspector general to pursue fraudulent claims. 
 Each candidate attended his opponent's address, and neither hesitated to take shots at the other. Mr. Faso continued to attack as ''phony'' some of Mr. Spitzer's most publicized prosecutions as attorney general, while Mr. Spitzer told Mr. Faso there ''won't be anything phony about this speech, John, trust me.'' 
 Mr. Faso's campaign said his new plans for tax cuts, when added to his previous proposals to cut property and corporate taxes and to eliminate the state's estate taxes, would cost the state $14 billion annually within four years.
 Mr. Faso argued that the state needed far-reaching incentives to lure jobs back to upstate and to keep people from moving away. 
 Mr. Spitzer, who has proposed cutting property taxes $6 billion over three years, said he wanted to review his opponent's plan more fully, but said: ''If you add his property tax cut, his income tax cut, his capital gains cut together -- I'm not sure it's going to work, unless there's some pretty heavy debt financing there. We'll have to see.''
 Mr. Faso is proposing to eliminate income taxes entirely for married couples earning up to $50,000 and for individuals earning up to $25,000; he would adjust tax brackets for the effect of inflation each year, reduce the number of brackets to four from five, eliminate taxes on capital gains and dividend income, and eliminate what is known as the rate recapture, which requires the wealthy to pay the highest rate on all their income. 
 He also proposes to cut income taxes for everyone, reducing the highest rate to 6.25 percent for married couples with incomes of $80,000 or more, from 6.85 percent for married couples with incomes of $40,000 or more. His campaign said a married couple earning $90,000 would see their average income tax payment fall to $2,110 from $4,207. 
 ''It is finally time to put the family budget ahead of the state budget,'' Mr. Faso said.
 Mr. Spitzer addressed several issues that business groups resent, including the Wicks Law, which requires multiple contractors on public construction projects and has been criticized for needlessly driving up costs. Mr. Spitzer proposed exempting most projects, except for the largest ones, from the law, while Mr. Faso has proposed ending it entirely. 
 Mr. Spitzer also proposed overhauling the workers compensation law, and particularly restructuring payments for permanent partial disabilities, like back injuries. In New York, a worker with such an injury can get payments for life, though other states cap such payments. 
 The sparring continued after the meeting. Mr. Faso told reporters outside the hotel that Mr. Spitzer had ''violated his ethical responsibility as an attorney'' last year by discussing a potential case against AIG and its former chief, Maurice R. Greenberg, before the state brought charges. 
 The comment drew a sharp response from the attorney general's office. Darren Dopp, a spokesman for Mr. Spitzer, called the comments ''badly misinformed.''
 ''Everything Mr. Spitzer said has been proven correct,'' he said. ''There was massive fraud at AIG. The company itself admitted to misleading regulators and the public. It paid $1.6 billion to settle the case.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); LAWYERS (69%); ESTATE PLANNING (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (64%); MARRIAGE (50%) Election Issues; Taxation; Capital Gains Tax; Capital Investment

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Danny Hakim; John J Faso

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



473 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Two Self-Styled Outsiders Point Fingers at Those Inside

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; David Siders contributed reporting from Stockton, Calif.

DATELINE: SUNNYVALE, Calif., Sept. 21 

 BODY:
They came to talk environment and exchange program ideas. But when the governor of the country's most populous state and the mayor of its largest city got together in Silicon Valley on Thursday, it turned into much more.
 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg -- two wealthy Republican businessmen with socially liberal views, each holding his first elected office -- quickly turned to national politics and withering criticism of what they described as the partisan gridlock of Washington. 
 Mr. Bloomberg used the appearance, part of a two-day trip to California, to announce a plan to make New York City a ''national leader'' in environmental planning. He announced that the city government had begun a comprehensive inventory of all its carbon emissions -- from electricity consumption in buildings to tailpipe exhaust from vehicles -- and would release the results in the fall.
 The two men held a news conference at Bloom Energy Corporation, a start-up company here in Silicon Valley that works on fuel cells. (It has no connection to the mayor, though its name drew several corny jokes.) The two politicians embraced their nontraditional backgrounds, describing each other as independent leaders who rise above partisan politics. ''I think we need more people in this country who are willing to run for elective office and, when they get elected, stand up and do what they think is right -- rather than what campaign donors think is right, rather than what party leaders think is right, rather than what's conventional wisdom,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''Nobody would ever accuse Arnold Schwarzenegger of being conventional. And that's why he's a good governor, I think.'' 
 Although neither mentioned the low popularity ratings of President Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress, as measured in recent polls, that theme was palpable in their remarks.
 ''It is unbelievable,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said. ''They are frozen. They can't get anything done in Washington because it's Democrats against Republicans and Republicans against Democrats, rather than, 'Let us solve the problems of this country.' And so this is why I admire him -- I admire Mayor Bloomberg. He's my soul mate. He's the man.''
 Mr. Bloomberg later attended two closed-door fund-raisers for Mr. Schwarzenegger, who was elected in 2003 in a recall election that removed Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat, from office. Mr. Schwarzenegger is seeking re-election in November for a full term.
 The first fund-raiser was at the Four Seasons Hotel in East Palo Alto, north of Sunnyvale, in Silicon Valley. There were about 20 guests, including Duf Sundheim, the influential chairman of the California Republican Party. 
 Ray Lane, a venture capitalist from Atherton and a former president and chief operating officer of the Oracle Corporation, said he admired Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Bloomberg. ''Politicians -- they've become essentially nonstarters,'' he said. ''They spend their life in politics, and they get nothing done.'' He said of Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mr. Bloomberg, ''These guys have nothing to lose by saying what they want to say and doing what they want to do.'' 
 ''If he wanted to make a run, I would support him,'' Mr. Lane said of the mayor.
 Later on Thursday, about 57 miles to the northeast, in Stockton, Mr. Bloomberg attended a fund-raising dinner at the estate of Alex Spanos, a developer, an owner of the San Diego Chargers and a prominent Republican benefactor.
 The least expensive seats cost $2,500. Not everyone at the dinner, in the state's conservative Central Valley, was familiar with Mr. Bloomberg. One of the hosts, Kathleen Lagorio Janssen, president of the Ace Tomato Company, said before the event that Mr. Bloomberg was ''certainly not as charismatic'' as his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani.
 Along with an analysis of the city government's energy use, Mr. Bloomberg also promised an ''unprecedented effort'' over the next six months to measure carbon emissions throughout the city. 
 Mr. Bloomberg also announced the creation of an Office of Long-Term Planning and Sustainability. Rohit T. Aggarwala, a former McKinsey & Company. consultant with a Ph.D. in history, will lead the office, which will be part of the mayor's Office of Operations. A 17-member Sustainability Advisory Board, comprising scholars, environmental advocates, business leaders and two City Council members, will advise the new office.
 The mayor also said that Douglas I. Foy, a former secretary of commonwealth development for Massachusetts, and the Earth Institute at Columbia University, led by the economist Jeffrey D. Sachs, had both agreed to advise the city on its environmental agenda.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at the Bloom Energy Corporation. (Photo by Paul Sakuma/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (69%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (68%); STARTUPS (67%) Environment

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Sewell Chan; David Siders; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; California

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



474 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 855 words

 BODY:

YAHOO BIDS FOR FACEBOOK -- To woo Mark Zuckerberg, the 22-year-old founder of the social networking Web site Facebook, Yahoo has offered about $900 million for the company and said it would keep Mr. Zuckerberg in charge. [Page C1.] 


PRESSURE ON CHIEF OF H.P. Pressure is mounting on Mark V. Hurd, Hewlett-Packard's chief executive, to explain what appears to have been his greater role in the company's spying operation than was initially indicated. Yesterday, after his name figured in documents newly surfacing in the investigation, Hewlett-Packard's stock fell significantly for the first time since the revelations began early this month, closing down 5.19 percent. [C1.]

BILLIONS TO FIGHT GLOBAL WARMING -- Sir Richard Branson, the British magnate, said that his personal profits from airlines and a rail company that he controls -- a sum he estimated at $3 billion over the next 10 years -- would be invested in developing energy sources that do not contribute to global warming. [C1.]

LIKE MEDICARE, BUT PRIVATE -- A type of private insurance plan is gaining ground that looks little different from the basic coverage long available to anyone with a federally issued Medicare card. [C1.]

MIGRANTS MISSING FROM FARMS -- Stepped-up border enforcement kept many illegal Mexican migrant workers out of California this year, farmers and labor contractors said, putting strains on the state's shrinking seasonal farm labor force. [A1.]

SPINACH GROWERS SWITCH TACTICS -- Amid growing governmental pressure and public concern about an E. coli outbreak caused by contaminated spinach, California farmers promised new procedures for growing, handling and shipping their produce, in hopes of lifting a week-old government warning about the crop. [A15.]

SHARES FALL ON FEAR OF SLOWDOWN -- Stocks fell after a report said factory activity shrank in the Mid-Atlantic region in September for the first time in over three years, prompting worries about a slowdown in the economy and corporate profits. [C8.]

INQUIRY ON HEART IMPLANTS -- Ela Medical, a small producer of implantable heart devices, said it had received a subpoena from federal health care fraud officials seeking information about possible inducements paid by the company to doctors using its products. [C4.]

RULES FOR MILITARY LIFE INSURANCE -- Congress has taken final action to approve a bill to tighten rules governing the marketing of life insurance and high-cost mutual funds to American military personnel. [C4.]

DROPPING OIL ROYALTIES -- A top official at the Interior Department said that she would not try to recover $1.3 billion in royalties that the government has lost as a result of flawed oil and gas leases it signed in the late 1990's. [C2.]

MORE DELAYS FOR A380 -- The European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, the parent company of Airbus, confirmed that its troubled A380 would face still more delivery delay. [C7.]

TRIBUNE MAY SELL SOME ASSETS -- The Tribune Company will consider selling some or all of its assets, which include 11 newspapers, 25 television stations and the Chicago Cubs, as a result of an agreement it worked out with its largest shareholder, the Chandler family. Dennis FitzSimons, above, the company's chief, said the agreement had ''eliminated impediments to any transactions we might want to do, and management will explore strategic alternatives.'' [C5.]

MERCK OF GERMANY IN DEAL -- Merck of Germany said it would take control of Serono, a Swiss pharmaceutical maker, for $13.5 billion after failing to secure a merger with Schering, its German competitor. [C7.]

NEXT STEP FOR GOOGLE ADS -- Google is turning to Madison Avenue to help persuade marketers that it can do more than display text. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C8.]

ONLINE

POGUE'S POSTS -- Nowadays, Apple is a media darling. But that hasn't always been the case, as David Pogue writes in his blog at pogue.blogs.nytimes.com.

SCREENS -- The Times critic Virginia Heffernan takes a look at the explosion of Web video awards in her blog at screens.blogs.nytimes.com.

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

FEDEX said that its quarterly profit rose 40 percent on strong growth in its international, ground and freight segments. (REUTERS)

NIKE said net profit fell 13 percent as stock-based compensation hampered results. The quarter still exceeded estimates. (REUTERS)

RITE AID, the drugstore chain, said that its quarterly loss narrowed as a result of an income tax benefit and increased sales of generic drugs. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

PALM said that profit for its fiscal first quarter slipped as it accounted for stock option expenses for the first time and grappled with slow sales growth amid tougher competition. (AP)

CONAGRA FOODS said in a preliminary report that quarterly profit fell 66 percent from a year earlier, when results included a gain from the sale of stock in the Pilgrim's Pride Corporation. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

AN EXECUTIVE with the United States unit of Samsung Electronics of South Korea agreed to plead guilty and serve prison time for taking part in price fixing in the computer memory chip business, the Justice Department. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Hewlett-Packard share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SUBPOENAS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (83%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); OIL & GAS LEASES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); FARM LABOR (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (71%); MIGRANT WORKERS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); BORDER CONTROL (68%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (66%); SEASONAL WORKERS (65%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (65%); E COLI (64%); ROYALTIES (63%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (63%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (62%); APPROVALS (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); LEGISLATION (60%); ESPIONAGE (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (93%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (60%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (93%); FB (NASDAQ) (90%); EAD (PAR) (60%); EAD (MCE) (60%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (93%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (93%); MARK HURD (78%); RICHARD BRANSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



475 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: A Tiny Nation's Premier Learns to Run With the Big Dogs

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
In New York, every president or visiting prime minister rides around in a limousine or a sport utility vehicle, trailed by security guys who have little plastic coils that run up their necks to little earphones that stick out of their ears. George H. W. Bush. Bill Clinton. Tony Blair. Albert Pintat.
 Yes, Albert Pintat, the prime minister of Andorra, an amoeba-shaped principality between France and Spain with 75,000 citizens, half as many as Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and less than 1 percent of the population of New York City. 
Mr. Pintat's country is income tax-free and limousine-free. When he goes places in Andorra's one city, he drives himself, if he does not simply walk. He has no security detail, no entourage.
 The way Mr. Pintat describes Andorra, it sounds like a place created not by Charlemagne, as legend and the national anthem have it, but by Garrison Keillor. ''The world forgot us,'' he says, cheerfully.
 How different his weeklong visit to New York has been from a week at home. Since he arrived to attend the opening session this week of the United Nations General Assembly, Mr. Pintat has not been in the driver's seat once. He has not had to learn the New York driver's alphabet: the B.Q.E., the F.D.R., C.P.W. 
 Nor has he had to figure out such New York driving rituals as alternate-side parking, for he has been just another leader in the back seat of just another limousine creeping toward the United Nations.
 And he has been trailed by American Secret Service agents. They ride in elevators with him. They cool their heels when he decides, as he did on Wednesday afternoon, to stop by the Andorran mission and work on ''the speech.'' For his week was focused on ''the speech,'' which he delivered yesterday afternoon from the same lectern at which President Bush spoke one day and President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela called him ''the devil'' the next.
 There was also the reception, which is a diplomatic must when heads of state are in town. Little Andorra drew a big crowd: more than 75 people shook Mr. Pintat's hand as they moved through his receiving line at the Millennium U.N. Plaza Hotel, across First Avenue from the United Nations. 
 As lower-level diplomats from other nations swirled through the crowded room, Ambassador Ravan Farhadi of Afghanistan leaned against the piano. Across the room, sipping a glass of water, Mr. Pintat talked about how comfortable he felt in New York. 
 ''I was always impressed with what is written under the liberty lady -- here you are welcome,'' he said. And with so many leaders in New York at once, he said, ''you can speak with Montenegro, with Switzerland, with Iceland. All your friends, you can see them here.''
 He does not mind being the smallest of players on the world stage. ''We do not want to join the E.U.,'' he said, referring to the European Union.
 Andorra has been working to shake off a reputation as the dowdy laughingstock of the Pyrenees, as a tax refuge mentioned in the same breath as Monaco or Liechtenstein and as a front for swindlers on eBay who are based elsewhere. 
 Mr. Pintat said Andorra had been going through an ''economic evolution.'' Parliament has been considering a corporate tax, but not a personal income tax. ''You don't need that much taxation,'' he said. 
 Mr. Pintat mentioned that Andorra had the world's lowest unemployment rate (zero). Encyclopedias and almanacs add details that he did not: Andorrans have the world's longest life expectancy (83 1/2 years). Andorra has no navy -- it is, after all, landlocked, although it has dozens of mountain lakes -- and it has no army, either. Until 1993, it had a law requiring every household to keep a firearm that could be used to defend the country, said Joseph Altarriba, an aide who accompanied Mr. Pintat to New York. 
 Officially, Andorra was at war with Germany until the 1950's. (Andorra was mistakenly left out of the Versailles treaty that ended World War I.)
 These days, Andorrans spend euros -- Andorra does not have its own currency, and it has been known as a place that appeals to rich foreigners who want to avoid taxes. 
 In 2002, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development put the country on its list of uncooperative tax havens. But Mr. Pintat, who has been prime minister since May 2005, said Andorra was not like that.
 ''We don't go in for offshore business or tax evasion,'' he said. In fact, he said, foreign business interests can own only a third of an Andorran-based company. Andorrans must own the rest.
 Still, he said, the corporate tax law would go a long way toward redeeming Andorra's reputation. ''After 9/11, you have to prove you are clean,'' he said. ''We thought, being a small country, we didn't have to show our wallet.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Albert Pintat, prime minister of Andorra, has no security detail at home. Not so this week in New York. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Prime Minister Albert Pintat of Andorra, center, speaking with Aldo Mantovani, an Italian diplomat, at a reception at the Millennium U.N. Plaza. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) United Nations; General Assembly (Un)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%) James Barron; Albert (Prime Min) Pintat

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SPAIN (92%); ANDORRA (92%); FRANCE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Andorra 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006



476 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Energy Prices and a Hedge Fund Take a Tumble 

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
OIL and gas prices slid almost as fast as they had risen earlier in the year, but this bit of good news came with a surprise, at least for investors in a hedge fund that had bet heavily on continued high energy prices.
 Corporate profits remained strong and the Federal Reserve's decision not to raise short-term interest rates buoyed the Dow Jones industrial average, which seemed to be closing in on its record set in 2000. The market reversed as some statistics suggested economic growth might be slowing more than traders had anticipated.

POWER DOWN -- Energy prices tumbled this week, and they dragged a big hedge fund down with them. 
Fading concerns that hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico or political tumult in the Middle East might disrupt supplies in a tight market drove the sharp drops in crude oil and natural gas prices. Traders said signs of slowing economic growth in many major economies added to the declines.
 Crude oil prices have tumbled almost 20 percent over the last six weeks, from nearly $77 a barrel to less than $61 yesterday. Natural gas, which sold for as much as $8.50 for 1,000 cubic feet last month, has fallen even further, closing yesterday under $5.
 Those plunging gas prices cost one hedge fund, Amaranth Advisors in Greenwich, Conn., more than $3 billion in losses. The fund sold all of its energy contracts to raise cash and avoid liquidation by its creditors. In a letter to its investors, mostly institutions and rich people, Amaranth said it had lost 65 percent of their money so far this month.
 Statistics on domestic crude oil inventories will be released on Wednesday, and could shake up markets even further.

RATE FREEZE -- In a split decision, the Federal Reserve's policy makers voted to keep interest rates unchanged, spotlighting the housing slowdown and suggesting that accelerating inflation, while still a threat, seems less likely than in the past.
 In effect, the Fed affirmed its assertion that the slowing economy will curb the rate of price increases, which has been near the top of its target range.
 While many recent economic statistics, measuring the housing industry, labor market, factory orders and other bellwethers, have shown weakness, which should ease pressure on prices, others have remained strong. Economists point to labor costs, which are rising faster than productivity for the first time in many years.
 Additional evidence of the state of the economy will come next week, when measures of consumer confidence, orders for durable goods and second-quarter economic output are released.

CHRYSLER CUTS -- Warning that it expects to lose $1.26 billion this year, the Chrysler Group, a unit of DaimlerChrysler, said it would cut production in the second half of this year by 16 percent, or about 90,000 vehicles.
 Slumping sales of sport utility vehicles are driving the cutback, said the company, which recently said it did not see how to profitably produce economy cars in the United States. Chrysler said it would again ask the United Automobile Workers union to agree to reduce health care benefits, though the union rejected the idea earlier this month.
 Chrysler's chief executive, Thomas M. LaSorda, said he was planning another restructuring -- the company's second in six years -- but said it was too early to discuss plant closings. He did say, however, that Chrysler needed to act quickly.
 General Motors and Ford have already reached agreements with the U.A.W. to buy out tens of thousands of hourly employees. 
 Automakers will release car sales data for September on Oct. 1.

OIL LEASE CHARGES -- In lawsuits unsealed by a federal judge, four government auditors say the Interior Department suppressed their attempts to recover more than $30 million from energy companies that they said were cheating the government out of royalties for oil from publicly owned waters in the Gulf of Mexico.
 The accusations surfaced a week after the Interior Department's inspector general, Earl E. Devaney, told a House subcommittee that ''short of crime, anything goes'' at the top levels of the Interior Department. 
 The auditors sued the oil companies under the False Claims Act, a federal law that governs individuals who expose fraud against the government. People who recover money for the government in such cases are entitled to share in the amount recouped. 
 Interior officials denied that the agency had suppressed any valid claims and implied that the auditors sued rather than worked within the system because they wanted a share of any money recovered through their lawsuits.
 With midterm elections six weeks away, Democrats and Republicans in Congress are expected to question the Bush administration's willingness to challenge the oil and gas industry.

SILICON SCANDAL -- Hewlett-Packard's beleaguered chairwoman, Patricia R. Dunn, resigned from the board as the company's spying scandal showed no sign of dying down.
 The good news for H.P., such as it was, was that the California attorney general did not press criminal charges against the company, its officers or contractors, as he had said he expected to do.
 The bad news was that new revelations about the program seemed to emerge every day, with each expanding the depth and breadth of the possibly illegal campaign.
 In one example, The New York Times reported that Hewlett-Packard studied the idea of planting spies in news organizations as part of its investigation of leaks from its board. The company has already acknowledged that private investigators working for it had misrepresented themselves to obtain private phone records.
 A House subcommittee has scheduled hearings on Hewlett-Packard next Thursday.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Sept. 16 through Sept. 22:
 1. Fortune's Fools: Why the Rich Go Broke 
 2. Deeper Spying Is Seen in Hewlett Review
 3. A Hedge Fund's Loss Rattles Nerves
 4. Suits Say U.S. Impeded Audits for Oil Leases
 5. A Chip That Can Transfer Data Using Laser Light
 Links can be found at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: DaimlerChrysler's chief, Dieter Zetsche, addressed a trade fair in Germany this week, as the Chrysler unit in Detroit announced it would cut production by 16 percent. (Photo by Ranier Jensen/European Pressphoto Agency )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); HEDGE FUNDS (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (83%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (79%); ROYALTIES (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); STATISTICS (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (75%); DURABLE GOODS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); DIVESTITURES (71%); ETHICS (71%); WEATHER (71%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Gas (Fuel); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; United States Economy; Interest Rates; Automobiles; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Sales; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Frauds and Swindling; Royalties; Ethics; Production; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Boards of Directors

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Amaranth Advisors; Federal Reserve System; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Interior Department; Hewlett-Packard Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (81%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (50%) Mark A Stein; Patricia C Dunn

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%) Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006



477 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: What's a Couple of Hundred Trillion When You're Talking Derivatives?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Everett McKinley Dirksen, the Senate Republican leader in the 1950's, is supposed to have said, ''A billion here and a billion there, and pretty soon you're talking real money.'' What would he have thought of derivatives today? 
 The International Swaps and Derivatives Association, a trade group, reported this week that the outstanding nominal value of swaps and derivatives at the end of June was $283.2 trillion.
Compare that with the combined gross domestic product of the United States, the European Union, Canada, Japan and China, which is about $34 trillion. The total value of all homes in the United States is about the same amount. 
 To be sure, notional value is an exaggerated term as it greatly overstates the amount at risk in many contracts. But the growth rate is real, and in the fastest-growing area of swaps -- credit default swaps -- notional value is closer to the amount at risk, because such swaps promise to make up the losses if a borrower defaults on the notional amount.
 The value of outstanding credit default swaps doubles every year -- a trend that must eventually stop -- and now equals $26 trillion. That is about the same as the total amount of bond debt in the United States, and corporate debt, on which most credit swaps are traded, comes to just $5.2 trillion.
 The credit derivatives cover the risks of default by individual companies, and offer insurance against default for bond indexes and specified bond portfolios.
 The growth of the market has forced the swaps and derivatives association to change the way its credit swaps work. It used to be that if a company defaulted, the writer of a credit swap would have to pay par value for the bond he had guaranteed, and could then sell the bond to reduce his losses.
 But in some cases defaults led to bond rallies, as those who had purchased credit swaps scrambled to get bonds to deliver. Now traders can choose cash settlements, with the amounts to be paid determined through auctions.
 Until 1997, the association provided separate numbers on currency and interest rate contracts, but innovations blurred the distinction between those categories, and now it publishes a combined total. At the end of June, the figure was $250.8 trillion, up 25 percent over the previous 12 months.
 Growth in that market slowed markedly early in this decade, as worldwide markets cooled, and there was even one annual decline, from mid-2000 to mid-2001. But growth picked up in 2002 as economies began to recover.
 The volume outstanding of equity derivatives is rising by about 30 percent a year, and now totals $5.6 trillion. It could go farther, with world stock market capitalization now about $41 trillion, according to Standard & Poor's.
 Robert Pickel, the chief executive of the association, said that the growth in derivatives enables ''more and more firms to benefit from these risk management tools.'' On the other hand, the situation allows more and more traders to load up on risk if they choose, and hedge funds have become major derivatives traders.
 The combination of large unregulated hedge funds trading ever larger amounts of unregulated derivatives in nontransparent markets makes some people nervous. But so far, anyway, little is being done to change the situation, and nothing devastating has happened to markets.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Derivatives Keep Growing, With Credit The Fastest Grower''Graph tracks Interest rate and currency derivatives outstanding since 1988.JUNE '06: $250.8 TRILLION12-month change: +25%Four-year compound growth rate: +29%Graph tracks Credit default swaps outstanding since 2001.JUNE '06: $26.0 TRILLION12-month change: +109%Four-year compound growth rate: +101%Graph tracks Equity derivatives outstanding since 2001.JUNE '06: $6.4 TRILLION12-month change: +32%Four-year compound growth rate: +28%Note: Figures are notional values, which overstate real value. For example, a $10 million currency swap contract would expose traders to the risk or reward from the rise or rall of $10 million against another currency, like the euro. If the dollar fell 10 percent, the loss could be $1 million, far less than the $10 million notional value.(Source by International Swaps and Derivatives Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (93%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); BONDS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (87%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HOME PRICES (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%) Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%) International Swaps and Derivatives Assn

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006



478 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Decline in Gas Prices Isn't Buoying Detroit 

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
Just when $3-a-gallon gasoline looked as if it were here to stay, it left. 
 But it was around long enough to devastate Detroit's automakers by convincing many car shoppers that smaller is better.
Now that gas prices have fallen almost 50 cents in the last month, moving below $2 a gallon in some markets, will car shoppers once again start thinking of buying the S.U.V.'s and other big vehicles that have been Detroit's bread and butter for the last decade?
 For now, that may be wishful thinking, according to many dealers and auto executives.
 ''I'm surprised. I thought when the gas prices came down around $2 that my business would pick up,'' said Vic Bailey, 80, who owns a Ford dealership in Spartanburg, S.C., where a handful of gas stations were charging around $1.96 Friday afternoon. 
 ''September has been very disappointing since the first of the month,'' when Ford offered no-interest financing, Mr. Bailey said.
 Simple economics would suggest that as gas prices fall, car shoppers would place less emphasis on mileage. But few, if any, people in the automotive industry are betting that this latest drop will undo some of the damage to Detroit.
 ''They'd have to keep falling and the decline would have to last for at least three or four months before it would have much of an impact on anything,'' said Sean McAlinden, chief economist at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 ''It would take a real fall to the $1.50 level to start changing expectations,'' he explained. ''And there's a better chance of $4 than $1.50 in the long run.''
 The problem is consumers may have decided that higher gas prices are more the rule, and any drops they might see in coming months or years are the exception. 
 Detroit car companies continue to rely on big vehicles as the most important part of their lineups. Those products were planned years ago, when $3-a-gallon-gas still seemed unthinkable.
 In August, a survey by Consumer Reports magazine found that fuel economy had become the top consideration for car shoppers, ahead of reliability, price and safety. Many of the people who feel that way have turned to Japanese manufacturers, namely Toyota and Honda, which spent decades honing their reputations for producing high-quality fuel-efficient vehicles.
 In 2002, the year S.U.V. sales peaked, only 22.7 percent of likely buyers said fuel economy was important in considering which car to buy, according to CNW Marketing Research, a firm in Bandon, Ore., that studies buying habits. 
 By 2005, 61.3 percent of buyers rated fuel economy as important. And in the first quarter of this year, after Hurricane Katrina but before gas prices spiked again, that figured climbed to 64 percent, CNW research showed.
 Sales of S.U.V.'s, a market long dominated by Detroit, have plunged 18 percent this year through August, after a 15 percent drop last year, industry statistics show. That compares with single-digit declines in 2003 and 2004, when gas cost less than $2.
 None of the 15 top-selling vehicles in August were traditional S.U.V.'s. Sales of the Ford Explorer, the most popular S.U.V. for years, are about one-third lower than last year.
 Last year was the first time drivers in most of the country paid $3 a gallon, after Katrina, although drivers in California have seen prices rise above $3 a gallon routinely this decade. 
 But this year prices surged again, with no hurricane to blame, and Detroit realized its days of raking in handsome profits on sales of S.U.V.'s alone were not coming back.
 ''There's a new reality,'' said Ford Motor Company's chief sales analyst, George Pipas, acknowledging that the company no longer expects a rebound in the S.U.V. market. At this point, Mr. Pipas said, he can only hope that gas prices stay low enough for long enough to stop light truck sales from dropping too quickly.
 ''If gas prices were to stabilize at today's levels, I think we might see a return to the slower declines that we experienced in '03 and '04,'' he said. ''We still see this category declining further, regardless of what happens to energy prices. We happen to think that demographics are the primary driver of this shift, as baby boomers downsize, but that gas prices speeded it up.''
 As of Friday, a gallon of regular unleaded gas cost an average of $2.44 nationwide, according to the AAA motor club. That is 47 cents less than a month ago -- yet still high by historical standards.
 The respite comes as General Motors prepares to begin selling its new line of full-size pickups, a vehicle seen as key to returning the company to profitability. G.M. also redesigned its large S.U.V.'s earlier this year and needs to continue selling them at a steady pace to keep its turnaround plans on track. 
 Ford is bringing out fresh versions of the Ford Explorer and Lincoln Navigator, once so popular Ford could not keep them in stock. But their sales have plummeted this year. Ford is putting its emphasis this fall, however, on its new crossover, the Edge.
 The Chrysler Group, which is more dependent on truck sales than any of its competitors, has experienced a sudden sales slump and expects to lose $1.5 billion this quarter, more than double its original projections. Chrysler has a bevy of upcoming new vehicles, but it has struggled to unload excess inventories of 2006 models that are clogging dealer lots.
 Neither company is counting on falling gas prices to provide much of a boost. If anything, consumer confidence may increase slightly, which all industries would welcome. But economists do not expect many people to put money saved on fuel toward a new vehicle, if they were not already shopping for one. 
 ''I don't think anybody's paid a whole lot of attention to it,'' said a G.M. spokesman, John M. McDonald.
 ''It's way too early to tell,'' said Kevin McCormick, a Chrysler spokesman. ''We don't know how long these lower prices are going to sustain.''
 Chrysler's chief executive, Thomas W. LaSorda, last month said the company was planning for gas prices to remain in the $3 to $4 range for the rest of this decade. On a conference call this week, Mr. LaSorda said there had been no uptick in sales as a result of reduced gas prices.
 Mr. McAlinden said the automakers are wise to dismiss the recent drop-off and focus on improving their offerings of smaller cars with higher gas mileage.
 ''The executives in Detroit -- finally -- don't trust this decline in gasoline at all,'' he said. ''Any foreign event could put us back at $3 a gallon, and I think the public senses that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gas under $2 a gallon is common
this station is in Swedesboro, N.J. (Photo by William Thomas Cain for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 With many buyers unconvinced that gasoline prices are permanently falling, big cars like the 2007 Lincoln Navigator may prove a hard sell. (Photo by Joshua Lott/Reuters)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); GAS STATIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (76%); HURRICANES (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%) Automobiles; Production; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Consumer Behavior

PERSON: Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (56%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006



479 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: 

 BODY:
Memorials
DANIELS, JOHN HANCOCK, 84. OF MULBERRY PLANTATION, CAMDEN, SOUTH CAROLINA, DIED MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2006. BORN IN ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA, OCTOBER 28, 1921, HE WAS THE SON OF THOMAS LEONARD DANIELS AND FRANCES HANCOCK DANIELS AND THE GRANDSON OF JOHN W. DANIELS, ONE OF THE FOUNDERS OF ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND CO. HE IS SURVIVED BY HIS WIFE, THE FORMER MARTHA HILL WILLIAMS, TO WHOM HE WAS MARRIED DECEMBER 23, 1942. HE LEAVES TWO SONS, JOHN H. DANIELS JR. OF MINNEAPOLIS, MN AND CHRISTOPHER W. DANIELS OF DENVER, CO AND TWO DAUGHTERS, MARTHA M. DANIELS OF WASHINGTON STATE AND MULBERRY PLANTATION AND DR. JANE D. MOFFETT OF SLEEPY HOLLOW, NY, AS WELL AS EIGHT GRANDCHILDREN AND THREE GREAT GRANDCHILDREN. MR. DANIELS WAS GRADUATED FROM THE PHILLIPS EXETER ACADEMY, 1939, YALE UNIVERSITY, 1943, AND THE ADVANCED MANAGEMENT PROGRAM, HARVARD, 1957. IN WORLD WAR II HE SERVED FROM 2ND LT. TO CAPT., IN THE EUROPEAN THEATRE, WITH THE 738TH FIELD ARTILLERY BATTALION OF 8, INCH HOWITZERS. HE WAS AWARDED THE BRONZE STAR. IN LATER LIFE HE SERVED AS CIVILIAN AIDE TO THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY, AND WAS AWARDED THE U.S. ARMY OUTSTANDING CIVILIAN SERVICE MEDAL. AFTER WORLD WAR II, HE JOINED ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND CO., AN AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS FIRM THEN BASED IN MINNEAPOLIS, WHERE HE SERVED IN VARIOUS CAPACITIES FOR 50 YEARS. HE BECAME PRESIDENT AND CEO OF ADM IN 1958. HE SERVED ON ADM'S BOARD OF DIRECTORS FROM 1958 THROUGH 1996, PERFORMING AS CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD FROM 1968 THROUGH 1972. HE ALSO SERVED AS A MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. IN HIS FINAL TWO YEARS AS A BOARD MEMBER HE CO, CHAIRED WITH FORMER CANADIAN PM, BRIAN MULRONEY, THE SPECIAL SHAREHOLDERS' COMMITTEE WHICH REPRESENTED THE INTERESTS OF ADM'S SHAREHOLDERS IN A FEDERAL LAW, ENFORCEMENT INVESTIGATION INTO THE MISCONDUCT OF ADM EXECUTIVES. HE SERVED AS PRESIDENT OF MULBERRY PLANTATION, INC. FROM 1970 UNTIL 1993. HE WAS A MASTER OF FOXHOUNDS OF THE CAMDEN HUNT (SC). HE COFOUNDED AND SERVED AS THE JOINT MASTER OF TWO FOXHUNTS, THE LONG LAKE HOUNDS (MN) AND THE OLD STONINGTON HUNT (ILL.) MR. DANIELS BECAME A MEMBER OF THE BUSINESS COUNCIL IN 1962. HE WAS A MEMBER OF THE COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT. HE WAS A MEMBER OF THE WOODHILL COUNTRY CLUB, THE ELIZABETHAN CLUB, THE GROLIER CLUB, THE LINKS CLUB, THE LAFAYETTE CLUB AND THE CAMDEN COUNTRY CLUB AND A FORMER DIRECTOR OF THE SPRINGDALE HALL CLUB. WHILE AT YALE, MR. DANIELS WAS A MEMBER OF THE SINGING GROUPS, THE WIFFENPOOFS AND THE SPIZZWINKS AND REMAINED A LIFELONG SUPPORTER OF THOSE ORGANIZATIONS. ALSO AT YALE, MR. DANIELS WAS CAPTAIN OF THE YALE POLO TEAM, A SPORT HE CONTINUED TO PLAY AND FOLLOW LATER IN LIFE. HE HAS SERVED AS A TRUSTEE OF THE YALE LIBRARY ASSOCIATES, THE EXETER TRUSTEES COUNCIL AND AS PERMANENT SECRETARY, 738TH FIELD ARTILLERY BATTALION ASSOCIATION. FOR MANY YEARS AND UNTIL HIS DEATH HE WAS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CAROLINA CUP AND COLONIAL CUP STEEPLECHASES, HELD IN SPRING AND FALL IN CAMDEN, SC. A LONGTIME COLLECTOR OF RARE SPORTING BOOKS, JOHN DANIELS, WITH HIS WIFE, DONATED SOME 5,000 VOLUMES TO HELP LAUNCH THE NATIONAL SPORTING LIBRARY IN MIDDLEBURG, VIRGINIA, WHERE HE SERVED AS DIRECTOR AND DIRECTOR EMERITUS. HE WAS THE AUTHOR OF SEVERAL ARTICLES, MONOGRAPHS AND BOOKS, INCLUDING ''WAR DIARY''(1948),''AND THEN WHAT HAPPENED? MAYDEC 1945'' (1982), ''NOTHING COULD BE FINER''(1996
 DANIELS--John Hancock, 84. of Mulberry Plantation, Camden, South Carolina, died Monday, September 18, 2006. Born in St. Paul, Minnesota, October 28, 1921, he was the son of Thomas Leonard Daniels and Frances Hancock Daniels and the grandson of John W. Daniels, one of the founders of Archer Daniels Midland Co. He is survived by his wife, the former Martha Hill Williams, to whom he was married December 23, 1942. He leaves two sons, John H. Daniels Jr. of Minneapolis, MN and Christopher W. Daniels of Denver, CO and two daughters, Martha M. Daniels of Washington State and Mulberry Plantation and Dr. 
Jane D. Moffett of Sleepy Hollow, NY, as well as eight grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Mr. Daniels was graduated from the Phillips Exeter Academy, 1939, Yale University, 1943, and the Advanced Management Program, Harvard, 1957. In World War II he served from 2nd Lt. to Capt., in the European theatre, with the 738th Field Artillery Battalion of 8-inch howitzers. He was awarded the Bronze Star. In later life he served as Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the Army, and was awarded the U.S. Army Outstanding Civilian Service Medal. After World War II, he joined Archer Daniels Midland Co., an agricultural products firm then based in Minneapolis, where he served in various capacities for 50 years. He became President and CEO of ADM in 1958. He served on ADM's Board of Directors from 1958 through 1996, performing as Chairman of the Board from 1968 through 1972. He also served as a member of the Executive Committee. In his final two years as a Board member he Co-chaired with former Canadian PM, Brian Mulroney, the Special Shareholders' Committee which represented the interests of ADM's shareholders in a Federal law-enforcement investigation into the misconduct of ADM executives. He served as President of Mulberry Plantation, Inc. from 1970 until 1993. He was a Master of Foxhounds of The Camden Hunt (SC). He cofounded and served as the joint master of two foxhunts, The Long Lake Hounds (MN) and The Old Stonington Hunt (Ill.) Mr. Daniels became a member of The Business Council in 1962. He was a member of the Committee for Economic Development. He was a member of the Woodhill Country Club, The Elizabethan Club, The Grolier Club, The Links Club, The Lafayette Club and The Camden Country Club and a former director of The Springdale Hall Club. While at Yale, Mr. Daniels was a member of the singing groups, The Wiffenpoofs and The Spizzwinks and remained a lifelong supporter of those organizations. Also at Yale, Mr. Daniels was captain of the Yale Polo team, a sport he continued to play and follow later in life. He has served as a Trustee of the Yale Library Associates, The Exeter Trustees Council and as Permanent Secretary, 738th Field Artillery Battalion Association. For many years and until his death he was a member of the Board of Directors of the Carolina Cup and Colonial Cup steeplechases, held in spring and fall in Camden, SC. A longtime collector of rare sporting books, John Daniels, with his wife, donated some 5,000 volumes to help launch The National Sporting Library in Middleburg, Virginia, where he served as Director and Director Emeritus. He was the author of several articles, monographs and books, including ''War Diary''(1948),''And Then What Happened? MayDec 1945'' (1982), ''Nothing Could Be Finer''(1996eprint 2006),''Affectionately H''(1999) and ''In the Boat! -A Ninety Year History of The St. Croix Fly - Fishing Club''(2003). Services will be held at The Quaker Cemetery, Camden, South Carolina, at 3 PM, Saturday, September 23, 2006. The family requeststhat in lieu of flowers, memorials may be sent to The Fine Arts Center of Kershaw County, P.O. Box 1498, Camden, South Carolina 29021. Kornegay Funeral Home Camden Chapel is in charge of the services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMIES (75%); THEATER (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (70%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); MISCONDUCT (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); DOGS (62%); AGRICULTURE (51%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (93%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (93%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (93%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (93%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (93%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (93%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006



480 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
DANIELS, JOHN HANCOCK

 BODY:
 DANIELS--John Hancock, 84. of Mulberry Plantation, Camden, South Carolina, died Monday, September 18, 2006. Born in St. Paul, Minnesota, October 28, 1921, he was the son of Thomas Leonard Daniels and Frances Hancock Daniels and the grandson of John W. Daniels, one of the founders of Archer Daniels Midland Co. He is survived by his wife, the former Martha Hill Williams, to whom he was married December 23, 1942. He leaves two sons, John H. Daniels Jr. of Minneapolis, MN and Christopher W. Daniels of Denver, CO and two daughters, Martha M. Daniels of Washington State and Mulberry Plantation and Dr. 
Jane D. Moffett of Sleepy Hollow, NY, as well as eight grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Mr. Daniels was graduated from the Phillips Exeter Academy, 1939, Yale University, 1943, and the Advanced Management Program, Harvard, 1957. In World War II he served from 2nd Lt. to Capt., in the European theatre, with the 738th Field Artillery Battalion of 8-inch howitzers. He was awarded the Bronze Star. In later life he served as Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the Army, and was awarded the U.S. Army Outstanding Civilian Service Medal. After World War II, he joined Archer Daniels Midland Co., an agricultural products firm then based in Minneapolis, where he served in various capacities for 50 years. He became President and CEO of ADM in 1958. He served on ADM's Board of Directors from 1958 through 1996, performing as Chairman of the Board from 1968 through 1972. He also served as a member of the Executive Committee. In his final two years as a Board member he Co-chaired with former Canadian PM, Brian Mulroney, the Special Shareholders' Committee which represented the interests of ADM's shareholders in a Federal law-enforcement investigation into the misconduct of ADM executives. He served as President of Mulberry Plantation, Inc. from 1970 until 1993. He was a Master of Foxhounds of The Camden Hunt (SC). He cofounded and served as the joint master of two foxhunts, The Long Lake Hounds (MN) and The Old Stonington Hunt (Ill.) Mr. Daniels became a member of The Business Council in 1962. He was a member of the Committee for Economic Development. He was a member of the Woodhill Country Club, The Elizabethan Club, The Grolier Club, The Links Club, The Lafayette Club and The Camden Country Club and a former director of The Springdale Hall Club. While at Yale, Mr. Daniels was a member of the singing groups, The Wiffenpoofs and The Spizzwinks and remained a lifelong supporter of those organizations. Also at Yale, Mr. Daniels was captain of the Yale Polo team, a sport he continued to play and follow later in life. He has served as a Trustee of the Yale Library Associates, The Exeter Trustees Council and as Permanent Secretary, 738th Field Artillery Battalion Association. For many years and until his death he was a member of the Board of Directors of the Carolina Cup and Colonial Cup steeplechases, held in spring and fall in Camden, SC. A longtime collector of rare sporting books, John Daniels, with his wife, donated some 5,000 volumes to help launch The National Sporting Library in Middleburg, Virginia, where he served as Director and Director Emeritus. He was the author of several articles, monographs and books, including ''War Diary''(1948),''And Then What Happened? MayDec 1945'' (1982), ''Nothing Could Be Finer''(1996/reprint 2006),''Affectionately H''(1999) and ''In the Boat! -A Ninety Year History of The St. Croix Fly - Fishing Club''(2003). Services will be held at The Quaker Cemetery, Camden, South Carolina, at 3 PM, Saturday, September 23, 2006. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, memorials may be sent to The Fine Arts Center of Kershaw County, P.O. Box 1498, Camden, South Carolina 29021. Kornegay Funeral Home Camden Chapel is in charge of the services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ARMIES (75%); THEATER (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (70%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); MISCONDUCT (65%); DOGS (61%); AGRICULTURE (51%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (93%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (93%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (93%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (93%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (93%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (93%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2006



481 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

WAL-MART TO CUT PACKAGING -- Wal-Mart Stores announced a five-year program with its suppliers to help reduce overall packaging by 5 percent. In the latest step to polish its environmental record, Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, said it would begin the initiative in 2008, and it could help Wal-Mart save $3.4 billion in its own costs. In the five-year plan, Wal-Mart will push its 600,000 global suppliers to find more efficient packaging methods. It estimates total supplier savings of $11 billion.
 Wal-Mart said it would start working with suppliers in November to prepare for the changes. Last October, the company's chief executive, H. Lee Scott Jr., above, said Wal-Mart would become a leader in environmental issues with three goals: reducing waste to zero, moving toward using only renewable energy and offering more products made in a way that preserves the environment. 
 Wal-Mart shares fell 15 cents, to $48.31. (AP)

AUTO SUPPLIERS MAKE CUTS -- Production cuts among American automakers are rippling through the supplier industry, with BorgWarner saying yesterday that it would eliminate 13 percent of its North American work force and Lear earlier this week cutting its sales forecast by $300 million.
 General Motors, Ford Motor and the Chrysler Group division of DaimlerChrysler are losing market share to Asian automakers at the same time that the American economy is softening and domestic car sales are slowing.
 Shares of BorgWarner, based in Auburn Hills, Mich., fell 73 cents, to $53.76. Lear, based in Southfield, Mich., fell 23 cents, to $18.38. (AP)

BOSTON SCIENTIFIC ISSUES WARNING -- Boston Scientific warned that its third-quarter profit would fall short of analysts' expectations, setting off a 9 percent decline in its share price and driving its stock to a four-year low. The warning prompted several Wall Street analysts to downgrade their recommendations on the stock and raise concerns about cash flow at the company, which took on about $9 billion in debt this year when it acquired the Guidant Corporation.
 In its warning, Boston Scientific said it expected third-quarter profit, excluding acquisition charges and other one-time items, of 15 cents to 19 cents a share and sales of $1.97 billion to $2.04 billion. Analysts had forecast a profit of 26 cents a share on revenue of $2.16 billion.
 Stock in Boston Scientific, which is based in Natick, Mass., fell $1.51, to $14.85 a share. (REUTERS)

COLA BAN OVERTURNED IN INDIA -- The High Court in India overturned a ban on the production and sale of Coca-Cola and Pepsi soft drinks in the southern Indian state of Kerala, but state officials said they would seek ways to challenge the decision. Kerala's government imposed the statewide ban after a New Delhi-based private research group, the Center for Science and Environment, contended that the soft drinks contained high levels of pesticides.
 On Friday, the High Court upheld an argument by the Indian divisions of Coca-Cola and PepsiCo that the state government had no jurisdiction to impose a ban on the manufacture and sale of their products. Only the federal government can ban food products, it ruled.
 Coca-Cola shares fell 21 cents, to $43.99, while PepsiCo shares lost 33 cents, to $64.28. (AP)

MERCK QUESTIONS JUROR'S TIES -- A judge granted Merck lawyers access to bank and cellphone records that could show the extent of a juror's financial relationship with a plaintiff who won a $32 million verdict in the death of a man who took the painkiller Vioxx. The juror, Jose Manuel Rios, who earns $22,000 a year as a school janitor, testified in a posttrial deposition that he borrowed up to $10,000 interest-free from Felicia Garza, the plaintiff in the lawsuit against Merck. He said the loans included $2,500 that was paid off just weeks before jury selection in the case.
 He and other jurors in April found Merck liable for 71-year-old Leonel Garza's fatal heart attack. Tilden Katz, a spokesman for Merck's legal team, has said that Merck's lawyers were hoping the documents would help them ''get to the bottom of'' the financial relationship. Joe Escobedo, a lawyer for the plaintiff, did not immediately return a call for comment. (AP)

SONY CUTS PRICE FOR PS3 -- Sony cut the price of its PlayStation 3 in Japan by about 20 percent, responding to complaints that it cost twice as much as consoles from Microsoft and Nintendo. The game player will retail for 49,980 yen ($430) when it goes on sale on Nov. 11, Ken Kutaragi, the head of Sony Computer Entertainment, said at the Tokyo Game Show. The company previously said it would sell the cheapest model for 59,800 yen, excluding tax.
 Shares of Sony fell 1.9 percent, to 4,770 yen. The stock has declined 12 percent in the last six months. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

MTV TO BUY GAME DEVELOPER -- The MTV unit of Viacom agreed to buy Harmonix Music Systems, a developer of video games like Guitar Hero, for $175 million to expand its interactive and digital businesses. Investors in the closely held Harmonix may be eligible for additional payments through 2008 if financial results exceed certain targets, MTV, based in New York, said in a statement.
 MTV and Harmonix will develop products for MTV's online and mobile businesses, a spokeswoman, Marnie Black, said. MTV's games unit has featured Guitar Hero in TV programs and promotions since last November. Harmonix will be part of MTV's music and logo unit, led by Jeff Yapp, an executive vice president, the company said.
 Viacom's Class B shares rose 3 cents, to $37.03. They have dropped 10 percent this year. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

DUTCH PHONE COMPANY IN BUYBACK -- The Dutch government said it would sell its remaining 8 percent stake in the phone company Royal KPN to cut the national debt. Royal KPN agreed to buy back around half of the stake for 800 million euros ($1.02 billion), KPN said in a statement. The government is selling a total of 167 million shares.
 KPN's buyback is part of a larger repurchasing program the company is pursuing this year, totaling 1.56 billion euros. The government's sale completes the privatization of KPN, which went public in 1994. (AP)


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph: ''Sony yen per share''Last Friday: 4970Yesterday: 4770

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); RETAILERS (78%); CASH FLOW (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (67%); SOFT DRINKS (60%); MARKET SHARE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (82%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (82%); FORD MOTOR CO (56%); BORGWARNER INC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); COCA-COLA CO (50%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); BSX (NYSE) (82%); FORDP (PAR) (56%); F (NYSE) (56%); BWA (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (54%); KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (82%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (82%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); KERALA, INDIA (70%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006



482 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Reading the Coca Leaves

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
The most enlightening speech at the United Nations this week, I'm sorry to say, was the one by Evo Morales of Bolivia.
 I don't mean it was a good or even a coherent speech. That would be too much to expect from the world leaders' annual gasathon. The rhetorical bar is extremely low. Morales, like his friend Hugo Chavez, spent much of his time ranting about a new world order based on the economic policies that have worked such wonders in Cuba.
But Morales at least brought a visual aid -- and thank God, it wasn't a book by Noam Chomsky. Unlike Chavez, he didn't assign reading homework to the U.N. Instead, he held up a small green coca leaf, and when he talked about international drug policies, he made more sense than anyone in the United States government. 
 We've sacrificed soldiers' lives and spent billions of dollars trying to stop peasants from growing coca in the Andes and opium in Afghanistan and other countries. But the crops have kept flourishing, and in America the street price of cocaine and heroin has plummeted in the past two decades. 
 Meanwhile, we've been helping terrorists and other enemies abroad. The Senate has voted to send Afghanistan more money for programs to harass opium growers, whose discontent is already being exploited by the resurgent Taliban. In the Andes, American drug policies made Bolivians so mad that they elected Morales, a former leader of the coca growers, who campaigned for president on the kind of anti-American rhetoric he spouted this week.
 At the U.N., he denounced ''the colonization of the Andean peoples'' by imperialists intent on criminalizing coca. ''It has been demonstrated that the coca leaf does no harm to human health," he said, a statement that's much closer to the truth than Washington's take on these leaves. The white powder sold on the streets of America is dangerous because it's such a concentrated form of cocaine, but just about any substance can be perilous at a high enough dose. 
 South Americans routinely drink coca tea and chew coca leaves. The tiny amount of cocaine in the leaves is a mild stimulant and appetite suppressant that isn't more frightening than coffee or colas -- in fact, it might be less addictive than caffeine, and on balance it might even be good for you. When the World Health Organization asked scientists to investigate coca in the 1990's, they said it didn't seem to cause health problems and might yield health benefits.
 But American officials fought against the publication of the report and against the loosening of restrictions on coca products, just as they've resisted proposals to let Afghan farmers sell opium to pharmaceutical companies instead of to narco-traffickers allied with the Taliban. The American policy is to keep attacking the crops, even if that impoverishes peasants -- or, more typically, turns them into criminals.
 Drug prohibition in Bolivia and Afghanistan has done exactly what alcohol prohibition did in America: it has financed organized crime. 
 The only workable solution is to repeal prohibition. Give Afghan poppy growers a chance to sell opium for legal painkilling medicines; give Andean peasants a legal international market for their crops in products like gum, lozenges, tea and other drinks. As Ethan Nadelmann of the Drug Policy Alliance proposes, ''Put the coca back in Coca-Cola.''
 That's what Morales wants, too, and he's right to complain about American imperialists criminalizing a substance that has been used for centuries in the Andes. If gringos are abusing a product made from coca leaves, that's a problem for America to deal with at home. The most cost-effective way is through drug treatment programs, not through futile efforts to cut off the supply.
 America makes plenty of things that are bad for foreigners' health -- fatty Big Macs, sugary Cokes, deadly Marlboros -- but we'd never let foreigners tell us what to make and not make. The Saudis can fight alcoholism by forbidding the sale of Jack Daniels, but we'd think they were crazy if they ordered us to eradicate fields of barley in Tennessee.
 They'd be even crazier if they tried to wipe out every field of barley in the world, but that's what our drug policy has come to. We think we can solve our cocaine problem by getting rid of coca leaves, but all we're doing is empowering demagogues like Evo Morales. Our drug warriors put him in power. Now he gets to perform show and tell for the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (92%); DRUG POLICY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (88%); OPIUM (88%); TALIBAN (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); HEROIN (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FARM LABOR (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); TERRORISM (51%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Coca (Plant); Cocaine and Crack Cocaine; United States International Relations; Drug Abuse and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) United Nations

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (71%); JOHN F TIERNEY (50%) John Tierney; Evo (Pres) Morales

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDES (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); BOLIVIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CUBA (57%) Bolivia 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006



483 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Gazprom Reaps the Benefit of Friends in the Kremlin

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
Gazprom, the natural gas operator, has benefited handsomely from its position as the monopoly supplier of Russian natural gas to Europe. Now the Kremlin-backed energy company may get a similar role in Asia. 
 This year Gazprom surpassed BP and Shell to become the second-largest energy company in the world by market capitalization, after Exxon Mobil. The value of its stock, traded in London and on Russian exchanges, doubled in 2005.
This week, Gazprom moved closer to achieving a monopoly on Russian natural gas to be export eastward, with sales of liquefied gas planned as far away as California. The development has far-reaching consequences for the pricing and politics of energy in Asia. 
 The Russian government threatened to halt work at the Royal Dutch Shell gas field on Sakhalin Island, off the east coast of Siberia, citing environmental shortcomings. The Sakhalin 2 project, a $20 billion development, is the world's largest liquefied natural gas plant, with planned capacity equal to roughly 7 percent of world supply of L.N.G.
 ''Russia cannot change the terms, but it can create conditions where the operators will want to renegotiate'' Vitaly V. Yermakov, research director for Russian and Caspian energy at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, said in a telephone interview. 
 ''It looks like Shell received an invitation to the negotiating table, under the point of a gun,'' he said. 
 Gazprom, a company with interests so closely linked to the Russian state that a deputy prime minister is chairman of the board, is negotiating for 25 percent of the consortium and a blocking vote on the board, analysts say. 
 Also this week, Russian regulators vetoed three tanker shipments from a terminal operated by Exxon Mobil on Sakhalin Island and threatened to withdraw a license for Total of France to operate a Siberian oil field.
 The actions represent the broadest moves yet against foreign energy companies in Russia under President Vladimir V. Putin, whose government appears to be forcing a renegotiation of terms with foreign oil companies, as has occurred in countries from Venezuela to Kazakhstan. 
 Mr. Putin is scheduled to meet Saturday with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Jacques Chirac of France in Compiegne, a town outside of Paris. Energy is on the agenda, and Mr. Putin is expected to face tough questions over the future of Sakhalin 2. 
 In another sign of Gazprom's ambitions in Asia, the company was in buyout talks with three private Russian business partners who operate a large Siberian natural gas field together with BP of Britain, the Vedomosti newspaper reported this week. 
 While Gazprom inherited a gas monopoly in European Russia, it was far from clear that the same approach would work in eastern Siberia or Sakhalin Island, where the Soviet Union never built a gas pipeline network. Asia was an economic backwater when the European pipes were laid in the 1960's. After the breakup of the Soviet Union, foreign companies bought licenses in that region; now the largest working gas fields are those of Shell and BP. 
 Shell's production-sharing agreement allows it to legally avoid Russian tax and other regulatory jurisdiction. The agreement, however, does not free the company from environmental regulations. 
 Under the terms, the operating companies would repay the government only after recouping their investment costs; in the meantime, the government would receive only a small royalty. In July 2005, Shell doubled its cost estimate to $20 billion, citing soaring steel prices and appreciation of the ruble. This pushed off by years any significant profits for the Russian government. 
 ''Sakhalin 2 is a relic that contradicts resource nationalism,'' Cliff Kupchan, director for Europe and Asia at the Eurasia Group, said of the Russian government's view of this deal.
 Meanwhile, Russia's energy exports to Asia are tiny now, at 3 percent of overall Russian energy exports. But they are projected to grow to 30 percent within a decade.
 Gazprom forced BP's joint venture, TNK-BP, to give up export rights from a major gas field near the Chinese border. Now Gazprom will export from the field, called Kovytka; TNK-BP is selling only to local customers. 
 If Gazprom gains at least a blocking stake in the Shell project, then it will control all major gas supplies to Asia from Russia, critics say, with the pricing power and political influence that comes with a monopoly. Gazprom would still compete against liquefied natural gas from the Middle East and other sources. 
 Russia also aspires to be able to play Europe against Asia in a form of haggling on a grand scale that would be possible only after building enough pipeline capacity to shift supplies between West and East and ensuring that independent producers do not interfere with the strategy. 
 Mr. Putin made this intention public last spring, when he said Russia would shift natural gas to China if Gazprom met resistance in its efforts to buy pipelines and energy companies in Europe. 
 ''The Russians are playing energy politics,'' Caius Rapanu, oil and gas analyst at UralSib, said in a telephone interview. ''It's strong-arm tactics, but it's warranted, considering the strategy of the Russian government.''


CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Dec. 29 about concessions that investors in oil and gas fields have given the Russia government misspelled the name of one gas field involved. (The error also appeared in articles last year on Nov. 8, Oct. 11, Sept. 23 and March 22.) It is Kovykta, not Kovytka.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Royal Dutch Shell's $20 billion liquefied natural gas project on Sakhalin Island is scheduled for completion and its first shipment in 2008. (Photo by Royal Dutch Shell, via PRNewsFoto)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (93%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (76%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%) Gas (Fuel); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Monopolies

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (93%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (85%); IHS INC (68%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); CASPIAN ENERGY INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Gazprom (Russian Co); Royal Dutch Shell

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (93%); GAZP (RTS) (93%); RDSA (LSE) (85%); RDSA (AMS) (85%); RDS.B (NYSE) (85%); RDS.A (NYSE) (85%); IHS (NYSE) (68%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); CEK (TSX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (55%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (55%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (55%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%) Andrew E Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); ASIA (95%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Russia; Europe; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Sakhalin Island

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006



484 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Paulson Ends China Visit With Little Progress but Gratified to Be Talking 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., winding up a four-day visit to China, met Friday with President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao and said afterward that he was encouraged by their willingness to engage in a new effort to resolve economic disputes between the countries. 
 Mr. Paulson and his aides, many with long experience in China, said his 50-minute session with Mr. Hu and 55-minute session with Mr. Wen were highly unusual for a Treasury secretary. Mr. Paulson's predecessor, John W. Snow, met with Mr. Hu for only a couple of minutes when he was Treasury secretary.
 But United States officials continued to acknowledge that the trip was ending with no signs of progress on issues like Chinese currency policy, restrictions on China's capital markets, trade disputes and the widespread piracy in China of software, movies and pharmaceuticals from the United States.
 ''I enjoy meetings when they are not scripted, when there is a give and take and when they are substantive,'' Mr. Paulson told reporters after the sessions, soon before leaving for Washington. ''These two leaders knew their stuff, and there was a real discussion.''
 He was careful to provide few details of his talks, but his aides said that ''this was a big deal,'' as one put it, for the meetings to have taken place and for there to have been a considerable presence from the Chinese media.
 The main accomplishment of Mr. Paulson's visit, which began Tuesday, was a new strategic economic dialogue between the United States and China. But officials acknowledge that the creation of a process does not equal achievement of results.
 Mr. Hu welcomed establishment of the dialogue, according to remarks reported by the official Xinhua news agency. Mr. Hu said the dialogue would serve the purpose of ''making suggestions and supplying advice for high-level policy making by the two nations,'' Xinhua said.
 Mr. Paulson summarized his visit to China as successful but said the results would not be seen until later. However, the issue has some urgency for the administration, with critics of China in Congress preparing to introduce legislation to punish the nation because of its currency practices.
 The main focus of the legislative action is a bill sponsored by Senators Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat, and Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican, that would raise tariffs on Chinese imports by nearly 30 percent if China does not allow its currency to appreciate against the dollar. Such a shift would make exports from China more expensive and imports to China cheaper. 
 Tony Fratto, the Treasury Department's chief spokesman, said Mr. Paulson would speak to Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham next week to try to persuade them to pull back their bill. Both have vowed to proceed with it if Mr. Paulson did not achieve progress.
 The bill is expected to be approved in the Senate but not the House. President Bush has vowed to veto it.
 Mr. Paulson argues that even Senate passage would be counterproductive, making the Chinese less likely to accommodate United States interests because they might be seen as yielding to pressure.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. (Pool photo by Elizabeth Dalziel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); LEGISLATION (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (63%) United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Currency; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Motion Pictures ; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%); HU JINTAO (92%); WEN JIABAO (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (50%) Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; Hu Jintao (Pres); Wen Jiabao (Prime Min); Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006



485 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Another Drop on Economic Worries

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street's growing pessimism about the economy sent stocks down for a second straight day yesterday as investors lost the enthusiasm that followed the Federal Reserve's decision on Wednesday to leave interest rates unchanged.
 The market was caught off guard Thursday by a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia that its index measuring regional manufacturing activity fell into negative territory for the first time in more than three years.
Before the manufacturing data came out, the Dow Jones industrial average had been within 100 points of its January 2000 high of 11,722.98. 
 ''I think the markets are all of a sudden worried about slower growth,'' said Dean Junkans, chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Client Services. ''I wouldn't put as much emphasis on one number as the market seems to have done in the last couple days.'' Mr. Junkans contends the markets overreacted to the Philadelphia data and were perhaps looking for a reason to pause after posting strong gains in September.
 ''If you're looking to take some profits, that number probably gave you a reason to do that,'' he said.
 Yesterday, the Dow closed down 25.13 points, or 0.22 percent, at 11,508.10, after having dropped nearly 80 points Thursday.
 Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 3.25 points, or 0.25 percent, to 1,314.78, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 18.82 points, or 0.84 percent, to 2,218.93.
 Oil was down $1.04, at $60.55 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange after falling earlier in the week when a report showed an increase in distillate supplies.
 The Philadelphia report deflated a market that had surged Wednesday, optimistic after the Fed had left rates unchanged. The market was already uneasy about the Fed's having possibly slowed the economy too much with its 17 straight increases starting in June 2004, and the Philadelphia report added to investors' concerns.
 The Dow ended the week down 0.46 percent, the S.& P. 500 index was off 0.39 percent and the Nasdaq fell 0.75 percent.
 The market, always anxious to see the latest economic data, will probably be more sensitive than usual to next week's reports, particularly the Conference Board's consumer confidence index on Tuesday and the Chicago purchasing managers index, a measure of Midwestern manufacturing activity, on Friday.
 Michael Malone, a trading analyst at Cowen & Company, said the market was due for a profit-taking pullback and suggested that investors should not read too much into the Philadelphia Fed number.
 ''A lot of the risk such as inflationary fears, high energy prices, concerns about the Fed, etc. are receding and so I think that given the attractive value that's why we've seen the recent move up in the market,'' he said. He added that stocks probably met with some technical resistance this week as the Dow neared its high and the S.& P. 500 drew near its highest point in five and a half years. 
 In corporate news, the medical device maker Boston Scientific fell $1.51, or 9.23 percent, to $14.85 after announcing that its third-quarter results would fall short of Wall Street's expectations.
 Shares of the Tribune Company rose $1.94, or 6.05 percent, to $33.99. Tribune said late Thursday that it would consider breaking up the company or taking it private to increase value for shareholders. 
 Tribune, which owns The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune, among other properties, said it planned to undertake substantial changes by the end of the year. 
 Palm, the maker of hand-held communications devices, said its first-quarter profit fell 9 percent amid increased competition and stock option expenses. But the stock rose 59 cents, or 4.07 percent, to $15.09, as investors were encouraged by the company's growth plan.
 The domestic auto industry's troubles continued, as the auto parts supplier BorgWarner announced plans to cut about 850 jobs, or 13 percent of its North American work force, because of lower auto production. BorgWarner shares fell 73 cents, to $53.76.
 Nike shares rose $3.90, or 4.73 percent, to $86.36 after the shoe and sportswear maker posted a 9 percent increase in its fiscal first-quarter sales. At the same time, tighter margins and stock option costs hurt profits, the company said. 
 In the bond market, prices rose sharply, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note gaining 11/32, to102 7/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, falling to 4.59 percent from 4.64 percent late Thursday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (64%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Credit; Government Bonds; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); COWEN GROUP INC (80%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); COWN (NASDAQ) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (85%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (80%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (80%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2006



486 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 95

LENGTH: 2704 words

HEADLINE: If You Build It, Will They Come?

BYLINE: By Nicolai Ouroussoff

 BODY:
Jean Nouvel is standing on an industrial bridge over the Mississippi River clutching a fat cigar. Water rushes through the locks underneath. Wisps of white smoke rise from the smokestacks of an electric plant a hundred yards downstream, alongside the sad concrete silos of an abandoned grain elevator. Just beyond it, the gleaming blue form of Nouvel's new Guthrie Theater complex in Minneapolis is the latest addition to this haunted panorama: a monument to culture conceived on an industrial scale.
 To a contemporary architect like Nouvel, few sites are likely to conjure more conflicting emotions. In the 1920's, when Le Corbusier famously described the industrial icons of the American Midwest as the ''magnificent first fruits of the new age,'' it was both a battle cry for a new architectural order and a jab at a complacent bourgeoisie. Today, Modernism's utopian agenda is long dead. The industrial warehouses that line the Mississippi have been transformed into plush lofts for yuppie couples. And the industrial aesthetic has been reduced to a matter of personal style. 
 ''The references to silos and mills -- I was nourished on that,'' Nouvel said. ''At the same time, this was exactly the site of the birth of the city. The boats stopped to load and unload here. So it was very important for me to create a kind of belvedere where you can see this story of the city. The other materials are a contradiction: the blue exteriors, the reflective surfaces. It is a commentary, if you like, on the evolution of architecture.''
 Architects like Nouvel contribute to that transformation. If the Guthrie Theater celebrates the city's industrial legacy, it is also part of a familiar formula that draws on a blend of cultural institutions, convention centers, sports venues and brand-name architecture in an often desperate attempt to resurrect dying urban centers. This can turn living cities into Potemkin villages: sanitized shopping environments for the global consumer.
 Still, however fashionable it is to attack the wave of new architectural monuments as part of a shallow effort to attract tourist dollars, many of these designs involve some sort of sincere effort to repair a torn urban fabric. What's more, in cities like Minneapolis, Denver and Toledo, Ohio, where the death rattle of the middle class is still comparatively faint, the civic spirit often feels more vigorous than in global cities like 
 Los Angeles and New York, which increasingly resemble playgrounds for the rich. The result is often a more experimental brand of architecture.
 The cultural landscape of much of America was shaped by civic-minded business leaders at the end of the 19th century; they saw culture both as a symbol of a more cultivated way of life and as a way to compete with great cultural centers like Chicago. That shift was prompted by the World's Columbian Exposition held in Chicago in 1893, a demonstration of cultural ambition that the architect Louis Sullivan said would spread like a disease through the country.
 In Minneapolis, a city with a particularly powerful philanthropic tradition that dates back to the ambitions of two dueling Midwestern aristocrats, a lumber baron and a railroad czar, this awakening also created a climate that was unusually open to architectural experimentation. Ralph Rapson's 1963 
 Guthrie Theater, for example, which is slated for demolition this month, was a progressive view of conventional theater design for its time. Its open facade, pierced by oval apertures, presented the interior life of the theater audience as a form of civic spectacle; its ''vineyard terrace'' seating pattern thrust the actors into the center of the audience, so that the two formed part of a shared community.
 Similarly, the stepped interior spiral of the original Walker Art Center, designed by Edward Larrabee Barnes in the 1970's, not only made for a wonderful place to view art, but its blank brick exterior was also a model of restraint, reflecting an age when the spirit of civic responsibility was expressed through stoic reserve, not architectural flamboyance. At the same time, both buildings were expressions of a society willing not only to engage in contemporary cultural life, but also to take the risks that are a necessary part of pushing it forward.
 That began to change with the erosion of urban centers across America in the late 70's, a phenomenon fueled by so-called white flight and a sinking national economy. And it has since been replaced by a more developer-driven formula: the insipid blend of cultural tourism and corporate homogeneity that can produce urban centers littered with a range of architectural statements yet nonetheless hollow at the core.
 As Richard Flood, a former curator at the Walker who moved to New York last year, put it: ''The people who were backing the cultural initiatives of the 1950's and 60's are still the best people out there, but they're dying off. These people had very elegant ideas about promoting and supporting culture. They were also the ones who helped create it, which is a very different situation than the ones who simply inherit their vision. Now the goals of these institutions and their boards are very different. It's no longer about the joy of bringing culture to a community. It's about the needs of the institutions to pay off their debts.'' The trustees, he added, want to hear how you're going to get people in the door.
 Even so, it is hard to deny that the recent boom in civic building, almost all of it financed by private institutions, has produced some major architectural achievements. (Nouvel's Guthrie is joined in Minneapolis by an array of lesser but still notable projects, like a public library by Cesar Pelli and expansions of the Minneapolis Institute of Art and the Children's Theatre Company, both by Michael Graves. And Frank Gehry recently began working on an addition to his 1993 design for the Frederick R. Weisman Art Museum, a city landmark a mile downriver from Nouvel's.) What's more, these works often reflect a tradition of egalitarianism that harks back to the middle-class values of a younger, more tolerant America.
 In creating a strong visual link between his big blue boxes of the Guthrie and the industrial landscape that surrounds it, for example, Nouvel is making an aesthetic statement as well as asserting a cultural vision that, like the mass productions of an assembly-line age, is for and of the masses. That romantic, populist message is reinforced by the enormous cantilevered form that projects out from the building's facade more than 175 feet toward the river. Precariously suspended above the riverbank, the bridgelike structure is a viewing platform where theatergoers can wander out and take in a romantic view of Minneapolis's heroic industrial roots. At the other end of the building, a similar bridgelike structure links the theater complex to the scene shop on top of an aboveground parking ramp. The bridge conjures the network of skyways that, in winter, is the connective tissue of the city's urban core.
 Across town, Herzog & de Meuron's recent addition to the Walker reveals a similar sensitivity to the urban surroundings. Along Hennepin Avenue, a main thoroughfare to downtown, the facade is entirely transparent, so that visitors on their way to the galleries remain on view as part of the urban experience. In back, the museum will open onto a garden (yet to be completed) anchored by a James Turrell light sculpture. The contrast between the emptiness of the street and the tranquillity of the grounds evokes the museum as both a corrective to social alienation and a place of emotional reflection.
 Yet in transforming the museum's interior life into public spectacle, the design also suggests how art can change the world. In case you miss the point, the structure's five-story aluminum-clad tower is set slightly off balance, conveying the dynamic energy of a vibrant, living culture rather than the static energy of a museum where dead cultural relics are buried.
 Both the new Guthrie and the expanded Walker aggressively seek to engage the urban context around them. They present a similar antidote to the insularity of cities whose main public space is often the mall: the city as public spectacle. And they do so by making visible a beauty that was already there.
 The revival of Denver's downtown cultural district may represent a more concentrated example of this trend. The city's historic core already is etched with the memories of abandoned urban visions. It is a model of the City Beautiful movement first promoted by the Chicago exhibition, anchored by city hall and a series of symmetrical flowering gardens that form Denver's main axis. In the late 1960's, the city invited Gio Ponti to design its art museum. Ponti, best known for his design of Milan's sleekly beveled Pirelli Tower, a monument of postwar Italian style, was entering a period in his career when the relationship between modern and classical worlds was no longer clear. Clad in shimmering gray glass tiles, the Denver Art Museum is one of his most bizarre structures: a vertical museum that is pierced by slotlike openings and is a picture of monastic seclusion.
 ''It is like he wanted the museum to be a castle,'' said Daniel Libeskind, who is now completing the design for a major addition to the museum. ''It has defensive walls and an elevator core, very utilitarian. It is very interesting that this was his view of Denver. He said, if this is really Middle America, I'm going to create this fortress of art.''
 Denver's solution to this approach seemed to be to pile on more architectural imagery. Fifteen years ago, Michael Graves was hired to design a major expansion for the public library across from Ponti's museum. As a composition, the project is not Graves's worst. Its geometric forms (a cluster of cylinders and squares capped by an array of decorative roofs) has some of the haunting qualities of the designs of Aldo Rossi, who saw cities as repositories of memory as melancholy as a de Chirico painting. But the overblown scale of the library gives it a more sinister edge, like a Disney interpretation of Albert Speer's designs for the Third Reich.
 When the city hired Libeskind to design the museum addition in 2000, it seemed as if it were trying to heal a deep urban wound by piling on yet more architectural forms. And Libeskind's plan soon expanded to include an adjoining residential project, one of the cliches of contemporary urban revitalization.
 Yet it would be wrong to say that he produced a work that is insensitive to its context. The museum, clad in titanium, sits on a critical site midway between the old Civic Center Park and the Golden Triangle, a historic district that has become a center of restaurants and galleries. Its jagged forms are a reflection of the two different street grids that collide there, a remnant of Denver's origins as a collection of small Western towns. Libeskind positioned his building at the edge of the site to create a public plaza that connects the two main districts. The pointed form of the upper-level gallery shoots out over 13th Avenue, as if straining to connect to the old historic core to the north. A bridge spans the street, piercing Ponti's building and pulling it into the composition. The residential component also has an urban function: it wraps around three sides of a large public parking structure, enlivening what could otherwise have been a deadening black hole.
 ''They have an ambition to not just be a cow town in the Rockies,'' Libeskind said. ''And so people began to see the museum not just as a building but as part of a whole city. The synergy of these buildings is more important than any one by itself.''
 It is also the mark of a young city. In Europe, as he says, the growth patterns of a place like Arles, France, are guided by its ancient Roman grid. The roots of a city like Denver lie elsewhere: in the collision between small-town America and the car culture that erupted in the latter half of the 20th century. In some sense, architects today still try to resolve that conflict. Their success will largely be determined by whether it is possible to wed their aesthetic aims to a larger urban purpose, and, more pointedly, by whether it is possible to manufacture urban diversity through aesthetic diversity.
 If there is a project that revives one's faith in the ability of architecture -- in its purest form -- to have lasting impact on how we experience our cities, it is the recently completed Glass Pavilion at the Toledo Museum of Art. A century ago, this was a major industrial city, mostly known for its production of high-quality glass. But industry fled long ago, and the city's core is largely abandoned and derelict. Designed by Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa of the Japanese firm Sanaa, the pavilion is set within a small garden opposite the brooding, columned facade of the Beaux-Arts museum, a monument to the cultural aspirations of a once-thriving city.
 The project is comparatively humble. 
 The glass used to build it was manufactured in Germany and molded in China; most of Toledo's glassworks closed long ago. Its low form is composed of a series of curving glass walls, creating the occasional illusion that it is dissolving into its surroundings. Yet it is also a perfect work of art, one of the most delicately conceived I have seen in years. The layers of glass create a series of interstitial spaces that are used to regulate the climate inside the building. These cavities also create the illusion that you are constantly sliding between spaces that you can see but cannot enter, which gives them an added seductive pull. The entire composition has been placed within its garden setting with exquisite care, just off axis from the art museum across the street, as if the architects' aim were to not disrupt the surrounding cityscape.
 The pavilion is proof that a single architectural moment, created out of the deepest sense of humility, can have an impact more resonant than a major planning campaign. It reminds us that there are greater urban values than an endless cycle of consumption. And it begins to create a sense of place within the larger fabric of the city, something that to an architectural tourist may be more important than where you can buy a handbag.
 Essentials Architecture in America
 Minneapolis Hotels Chambers Brand-new sibling to the Chambers hotel in New York, with a contemporary art collection and a Jean Georges restaurant. 901 Hennepin Avenue; (612)767-6900; www.chambersminneapolis.com; doubles from $189. Graves 601 Hotel The city's original style-driven hotel. 601 First Avenue North; (866)523-1100; www.graves601hotel.com; doubles from $199.
 Buildings Central Library of the Minneapolis Public Library 300 Nicollet Mall; (612)630-6000; www.mpls.lib.mn.us. The Children's Theatre Company 2400 Third Avenue South; (612)874-0400; www.childrenstheatre.org. Guthrie Theater 818 South Second Street; (612)377-2224; www.guthrie theater.org. Minneapolis Institute of Arts 2400 Third Avenue South; (888)642-2787; www.artsmia.org. Walker Art Center 1750 Hennepin Avenue; (612)375-7600; www.walkerart.org. Frederick R. Weisman Art Museum 333 East River Road; (612)625-9494; www.weisman.umn.edu.
 Denver Hotels The Brown Palace Hotel Historic 1892 property, with suitably traditional interiors.321 17th Street; (800)321-2599; www.brownpalace.com; doubles from $150. Hotel Teatro A more modern choice, right by the Denver Center for the Performing Arts. 1100 14th Street; (888)727-1200; www.hotelteatro.com; superiors from $250. Buildings Denver Art Museum The Frederic C. Hamilton Building by Daniel Libeskind opens on Oct. 7. 100 West 14th Avenue Parkway; (720)865-5000; www.denverartmuseum.org. Central Library of the Denver Public Library 10 West 14th Avenue Parkway; (720)865-1111; www.denverlibrary.org. 
 Toledo, Ohio Hotel Hilton Toledo Located on the sprawling campus of the Medical College of Ohio, about eight miles from the art museum. 3100 Glendale Avenue; (419)381-6800; www.hilton.com; doubles from $144. Building Toledo Museum of Art 2445 Monroe Street; (800)644-6862; www.toledomuseum.org.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Frederic C. Hamilton Building (Center Right) Is Daniel Libeskind's Addition To The Denver Art Museum. His Museum Residences Are To The Right Of It. The Museum's Original North Building, By Gio Ponti, Is To The Left, And Michael Graves's Denver Central Library Is Behind.
Jean Nouvel's Guthrie Theater (Center Left), On The Mississippi River In Minneapolis. Opposite, From Top: The Lobby Of The Guthrie's Dowling Studio
Inside The Cantilever That Projects From The Building.
Frank Gehry's 1993 Frederick R. Weisman Art Museum In Minneapolis
The Minneapolis Institute Of Art, By Michael Graves. Herzog & De Meuron's Expansion Of Walker Art Center In Minneapolis, Which Seeks To Actively Engage With Its Urban Environment.
The Glass Pavilion At The Toledo Museum Of Art, By The Japanese Firm Sanaa (Shown Under Construction).Daniel Libeskind's Frederic C. Hamilton Building Of The Denver Art Museum (Center)
 His Museum Residences Are To The Building's Right. (Photographs by Domingo Milella)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (72%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (53%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Guthrie Theater (Minneapolis); Minneapolis Institute of Arts; Denver Art Museum; Toledo Museum of Art

PERSON: Nicolai Ouroussoff

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (95%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) COLORADO, USA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (95%) Minneap00321400nn); Denver (Colo); Toledo (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



487 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 110

LENGTH: 3233 words

HEADLINE: Your Own Private Africa

BYLINE: By Verlyn Klinkenborg

 BODY:
If I could talk with one of the wildebeests in front of me, here's what I'd ask: ''How big were the herds 150 years ago?'' I'd ask a cow, not a bull. The bulls are frantic, shaping momentary harems out of the passing horde of females, surging ahead in great clouds of dust, dueling under noontime acacias. It's summer in northwestern Tanzania, two degrees south of the equator, and Lee Fuller, a tall, jubilant South African, has driven me into the heart of the migration. The herds glance sideways at us -- and there is a lot of sideways to a line of passing wildebeests. They've spilled across the western corridor of Serengeti National Park, a narrow strip of land pointing toward Lake Victoria, and onto Grumeti Reserves, a new, private safari reserve where Fuller is the head guide. They are following the grass, one and a half million of them. They are the color of a thunderhead just before the storm breaks on top of you. 
Humans don't seem to know the answer to my question. A hundred and fifty years ago, David Livingstone was just finishing his trek across the continent, some 16 degrees south of us. No one was counting wildebeests back then. The first good counts came in the mid-20th century. Thanks to those, we know that today there are at least five times as many wildebeests in the greater Serengeti ecosystem than there were 50 years ago.
 Here's why I mention this. Africa distorts your sense of time and permanence. It makes you believe that whatever you see has lasted forever, whether it's a leopard in a tree by night or a woman walking down a path with a plastic bucket on her head. At Sasakwa Lodge, the heart of Grumeti Reserves, a waiter serves tea in the shade of the veranda. Red oat grass stands thick on the plains below. Giraffes stride through it with the motion of seaweed in a slack tide. The rains are a memory. You imagine it has always been this way -- the unending grassland, the migrating wildebeests, the shifting balance between predator and prey, the impeccable service.
 But sooner or later, you remember. Every view (especially one that is nearly empty of people) has a history. The only timelessness in nature is the timelessness of change.
 And so, the wildebeests. I would like to know how many there were 150 years ago -- back in the time before time -- because in the late 1880's and early 1890's, a plague called rinderpest swept across sub-Saharan Africa. It was probably brought to Ethiopia by infected cattle imported for the Italian army. It killed at least 90 percent of the cattle on the continent and huge numbers of the buffaloes and wildebeests. In 1960 it was still killing wildebeest calves in the Serengeti. Three years later, after a massive campaign to vaccinate cattle all across Africa, rinderpest vanished from the wildebeest herds. Good rains fell in the Serengeti in the early 1970's, and now there are well over a million more wildebeests in this ecosystem than there were in 1960. When rinderpest breaks out -- and it has done so as recently as 1997 -- a biological fence of vaccinated cattle probably keeps it from reaching the wildlife.
 One and a half million wildebeests are a lot. But I don't know whether the historic herd, the one before rinderpest, was bigger or smaller than the one that exists now. No one does. The lesson, I suspect, is that the only historic herd that matters is the one that's migrating through the present.
 Every day at Sasakwa I got up and looked out at the savanna. Every day I drove down into it with Lee Fuller, at dawn and again after tea. Sometimes we followed a frail watercourse, sometimes a well-traveled track through the woodland. I saw lions mating again and again (and again) and a herd of elephants turning blue -- all but their tusks -- in the swift, equatorial dusk. I watched a cheetah kill a Thomson's gazelle using the wildebeest herd to conceal its approach. I saw impala in the high grass, and I could feel their nervousness, but I didn't really understand it until the morning when Fuller and I got out of the Land Rover and walked up the nearly dry bed of the Grumeti River. Fuller carried a .416 Rigby rifle, a very big gun by American standards. For a couple of hours I felt like prey. We stood under baboon roosts. We examined hyena and leopard tracks. We watched fork-tailed drongos (black, iridescent birds) attack a young martial eagle. We considered the blossoms of Acacia tortilis and felt the leathery leaves of an abutilon. Then we drove some more.
 One morning, Fuller and I were driving down the hill before dawn, slipping out of the woodland and into the open, a clear, blue day ahead. Fuller said, with satisfaction, ''Just us and 140,000 hectares.'' I knew exactly how he felt.
 It was never really just us, of course. There were guests and staff at Sasakwa Lodge and its sister lodge, Sabora Plains Tented Camp, as well as a construction crew at a river camp being built at Grumeti called Faru Faru River Lodge. There were askaris (uniformed guards) in hidden observation posts all around us, armed with binoculars and two-way radios. Every day we saw antipoaching patrols coming and going, men crowded into the backs of Toyota pickups, waving as we passed. Sometimes I caught the glint of a windshield on the main Tanzanian highway, a rough, red-gravel road that cuts across the reserves. One day we drove past Fort Ikoma, an old German redoubt that is now a kind of back lot with maintenance buildings and staff housing for Serengeti National Park. Southeast of Ikoma -- still on the reserves -- is a lone village called Robanda. But 140,000 hectares is about 346,000 acres, or more than 540 square miles, bigger than Grand Teton National Park and almost one-tenth the size of Serengeti proper. This is for the exclusive use of guests staying at Grumeti Reserves. The landscape feels empty, except for the game.
 In 2002, the Tanzanian government leased this land to Paul Tudor Jones II, an American conservationist and financier in his early 50's. Since June -- when the first full season of commercial operation began -- Grumeti has been managed by Singita, a highly regarded South African lodging and safari company. The reserves are really three contiguous hunting blocks with Sasakwa at the center: Grumeti Game Reserve, Fort Ikoma Open Area and Ikorongo Game Reserve. Hunting blocks are supposed to generate income for the central government and local districts through the sale of hunting licenses and trophy fees. Grumeti Reserves would make no financial sense, as far as the government is concerned, if the hunting revenues from these blocks simply vanished. Jones's solution has been to pay the hunting fees and nearly eliminate hunting.
 In a sense, Grumeti Reserves is a private extension of Serengeti National Park. If it had been up to the wildebeests, the reserves would have been part of the park from the beginning. The conservation gains are immediately obvious. The reserves add protected land to the western corridor of the Serengeti, right in the path of the great migration. Hunting blocks that were legally overhunted and commercially poached -- and that were perfectly positioned to intercept wildlife -- are now carefully guarded. Dozens of poachers have been arrested and thousands of wire snares destroyed. Resident herds of animals have quickly rebounded in the reserves, though the behavior of some species still shows how heavily they were hunted.
 In the midst of all this is Sasakwa Lodge, a cluster of elegant colonial cottages with a spa and equestrian center on Sasakwa Hill. At $1,500 a night (part of which goes to the government as ''hunting'' revenue), Sasakwa is one of the most luxurious resorts in Africa. Which leaves only a few questions: Do you really need a pedicure after watching a cheetah with her cubs? And do you judge conservation solely by the good it does? Or do you judge it by the good it does, divided by the number of people who are able to witness and directly benefit from it?
 What makes these questions more complicated is that Grumeti Reserves borders the fastest-growing human population anywhere around the Serengeti between the park and Lake Victoria. Some call it a ''human fence.''
 One afternoon, instead of going south out of Sasakwa, Fuller and I drove north, out the service entrance. We were joined by Barbara Schachenmann, a Tanzanian of Swiss origin who coordinates community relations for the Grumeti Fund, a foundation still partly underwritten by Jones but designed to direct some of the profits from the reserves into the villages that border it. We passed the guides' houses and a helicopter hangar and the lodge's generators. An askari raised a gate for us. Then we drove over a stone bridge and into a different set of expectations.
 The district was densely settled. The long, and now somehow smoky, gravel road seemed like the convergence of paths coming in from the countryside and braiding away again. It felt as though there were a new impulse, a new intention in the landscape, every few dozen yards: a small patch of maize or sunflowers; the driver of a broken-down Land Cruiser camped out and waiting for a part, which might take days to reach him; women washing clothes along the roadside; maintenance facilities and staff housing and a warehouse for the reserves; a few rows of sorghum; piles of burned bricks; a school with a neatly swept dirt yard lined with white stones; and then zebu cattle (a few of them as big as a wildebeest) walking along the ditch. I realized that a certain Africa -- its wildlife and their habitat -- had been naturalized for me long before I ever caught a glimpse of it. But nothing had ever naturalized the life of the human districts for me. I found it hard to believe the two could be contiguous.
 At a village called Singisi, where the people are Issenye and Datoga, we watched a rehearsal for an H.I.V.-education dance whose overt sexuality had the whole village laughing. We saw wells that had been dug by the Grumeti Fund and schools it had built, as well as a piggery and a building that would soon house a sunflower-oil press. We passed fields of artemisia being grown, with Grumeti logistical support, for their antimalarial properties. We passed Grumeti vehicles carrying villagers up to their jobs at Sasakwa Lodge. At a village called Natta Mbiso, Fuller steered the Land Rover over a dirt berm, and we followed a bicycle track a couple of kilometers through the bush to a cluster of thatched houses shaded by bougainvillea. The place was called Bugerera, a name that, for all I know, means ''No Elephants, Please.'' There we found an irrigated garden, a farm in the shade of enormous fig trees where sugar cane and bananas and cassava grow beside bell peppers and carrots and marjoram. The air was lush with moisture, the soil black, not red. The forest seemed to climb over itself toward the ridges. There has been a market garden here for years, and the hope is that soon it will provide most of the vegetables and herbs for Grumeti Reserves. But to the main road there is now only a dusty trail with the track of a puff adder leading across it.
 For the people in this district, the hard boundary with wildlife conservation used to be the edge of Serengeti National Park. The land in between was porous. Now the hard edge is the boundary of Grumeti Reserves. Wherever you find that edge -- in Africa or anywhere else -- you come across a cultural border that causes puzzlement at best, resentment at worst. It's worth exploring that border, though doing so isn't yet a regular activity at Grumeti, just to give the reserves its proper context. How abrupt the edge is became clear on the road back up to the lodge. One minute we were threading our way through a herd of goats and zebu cattle. The next we were being greeted at Sasakwa by a man from one of the villages we had just visited. He was wearing a Grumeti Reserves uniform (khakis and a polo shirt) and holding a silver tray of cool, damp washcloths to wipe off the dust. In a few kilometers, we had moved from a poor world shaped by livestock to a rich world shaped by wildlife -- but both indisputably governed by humans.
 On my last day at Sasakwa, I stood on the east bank of the Grumeti River beside the corpse of an old buffalo bull. He lay in Ikorongo Game Reserve, which, like most of the land in Grumeti Reserves, was vacated in the 1970's by order of the Tanzanian president, Julius Nyerere, as part of a plan to urbanize -- to village-ize, really -- people who lived in rural areas. Sometime that day the bull had risen from his night bed in the tall grass, taken a few steps toward the east and fallen. You could see the signs of his last struggle in the mud around his muzzle. Then the vultures that nest in the fig trees along Grumeti began carving a bloody porthole where his tail used to be. They ate as far into him as they could, but their beaks and talons were too weak to open his hide. Only a lion or hyena could do that, and so far none had found this corpse. So the old bull lay there nearly whole. In Africa, this is a dignified death.
 We had come hoping to see a banquet of hyenas standing around the carcass, bickering over seconds, or perhaps just a rubble of bones and a horn boss that would, in time, be eaten by horn moth caterpillars. But the old buffalo lay nearly unconsumed, still black and barrel-sided, because there were wildebeests and zebras all around him. In the old days, five or six years ago, there was every chance this bull would have been snared or shot by a poacher, his carcass swallowed by the commercial market for bush meat. In the older days still, there was every chance he would have died of rinderpest. The wildebeests around us were drunk on lust and territory and so much grass after good rains. The predators were drunk on lust and wildebeests. The buffalo was so much extra meat.
 It was just too dark for the tsetse flies to be bothersome. Their narrow, harrying whine had followed us while we were looking for the bull. His terrain was also theirs. Ever since I got to Sasakwa, I had been trying to make sense, if only an ethical sense, of the absence of humans. The tsetse flies were another clue, more powerful in their own way than hunting block leases or wildlife laws or the good intentions of a socialist president. Tsetse transmit African trypanosomiasis, or sleeping sickness, which in East Africa kills mostly livestock. It was tempting to say, simply, that the flies had kept people out of this habitat by killing their cattle. I was told that several times. But the answer is more complicated and more interesting. 
 The rinderpest plague that began in the 1880's was followed by famine, by smallpox, by locusts -- a series of biological bombs that ended a way of life. Rinderpest destroyed the cattle herds and the wealth of the people, and the resulting famine sent the survivors into exile in search of food. Where cattle had once grazed in what was then Tanganyika, the bush took over and with it the tsetse. Everything suggests that there was less trypanosomiasis, both the human and cattle kinds, in Africa in 1837 than in 1937, when an entomologist mapped the spread of tsetse in Tanzania. (There was probably also less in 1837 than there is in Africa today, now that the disease has been set loose by the chaos of civil war.) Before rinderpest, cattle grazing had fenced the tsetse into distinct and well-known belts where the wildlife lived. As Henry Stanley put it, tsetse were the invariable sign of ''an extensive habitat of game.'' Then the cattle died. 
 We are so used to the swift expansion of human settlement that the swift expansion of wilderness is almost unimaginable to us. But that is what happened. In the early 20th century, much of Tanzania had to be resettled from within, but on very different terms, since the bush and the tsetse had taken over vast tracts of land. Those tracts, in many cases, were the ones eventually set aside for wildlife conservation. Laws and leases make the balance sound relatively stable now. But some of the same oscillations continue. The human population just outside Grumeti Reserves grows quickly enough on its own. A drought last year pushed many of the Sukuma people into the districts just on the edge of the Serengeti and the reserves. The poaching that once might have been called subsistence hunting is now an important part of the commercial economy of Africa, including the districts bordering Grumeti. No one really wants to talk about it, because no one is sure how high up the political ladder the money rises.
 Sasakwa Lodge looks south to the center of the Serengeti ecosystem. The line of smoke you often see on the southern horizon rises from a firebreak along the park border. But there are other fires even closer, more and more of them all the time, the cooking and brick-burning fires of an Africa that has been kept at bay to leave room for wildlife. To see the smoke from those fires, you would have to look in a different direction, and no veranda points that way. So you have another cup of tea and look south again, out at the fullness, the familiarity of nature.
 I lingered over my tea, like everyone else, shaded by the deep veranda. I stared and stared at the landscape while I was in Africa, but it would not stay still. A sky that was thick with clouds in the morning had burned clear by noon. The giraffes I saw the day before were suddenly whistling thorn trees. The sun went down behind a mountain I was sure lay in the east. Some of this was my own confusion, of course. But most of it was the hard task of learning to see around the edges of what you think you've already seen. All the permanence I could find was right in the present.
 Essentials Grumeti Reserves, Tanzania
 BEFORE YOU GO 
 Visas are required for United States citizens to enter Tanzania. Vaccines for yellow fever, hepatitis, typhoid and rabies, as well as malaria prophylactics, are recommended by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (www.cdc.gov).
 GETTING THERE 
 The closest airport to Grumeti Reserves is Kilimanjaro International Airport, near Arusha; from the United States, the most convenient connections are on KLM through Amsterdam. You'll generally need to overnight in Arusha before continuing by plane to Grumeti. Recommended hotels in Arusha are the downtown Arusha Hotel (www.arushahotel.com; doubles from about $180) or the Arusha Coffee Lodge (www.elewana.com/acl; doubles from $260), set in a coffee plantation near the Arusha municipal airport.
 GRUMETI RESERVES 
 Many United States bookings for Grumeti are handled by Micato Safaris (800-642-2861; www.micato.com), which also does an excellent job of handling all trip logistics. At Grumeti, there are three choices for lodging: Sasakwa Lodge, set high above the plains, with views of the African savanna and animals in the distance; Sabora Plains Tented Camp, air-conditioned tents on the grassland for a deeper bush experience; and, opening in December, Faru Faru River Lodge, in the woods overlooking the Grumeti River. Along with twice-daily game drives or bush walks led by superb guides, Grumeti offers bicycling on the plains, horseback riding, tennis, archery, and a full gym and spa. Food is well prepared and beautifully presented, and there is a terrific wine cellar. www.grumetireserves.com; doubles from $1,020.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lush life: The infinity pool at Sasakwa Lodge, above, at Grumeti Reserves in Tanzania, owned by the American financier Paul Tudor Jones II. Opposite, from top: tea service on the veranda at Sasakwa
lounge chairs By the Pool
nighttime ambience at the lodge.
Under African skies Clockwise from top left: women gather in the village of Singisi, not far from Grumeti
on the reserves, Land Rovers are used for game viewing
elephants and wildebeests (who trek one and a half million strong during migration season) roam on grumeti's protected acres. Wild kingdom Clockwise from top left: sasakwa lodge is one of three lodging choices at grumeti
the reserves are home to diverse insect life, including butterflies
a pair of lions enjoy a tranquil moment
 a giant web enshrouds a tree. (Photographs by Azim Haidaryan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (89%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (74%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (68%); LAKES (68%) 

PERSON: Verlyn Klinkenborg

GEOGRAPHIC: LAKE VICTORIA (79%); EQUATOR (72%) TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); ETHIOPIA (77%) Tanzania; grumeti00322200s (tanzania)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



488 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; The Get: Thai Dressing; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Style Map Bangkok 

BYLINE: By Sheridan Prasso

 BODY:
Thais like to think of their capital as Asia's Milan, a city that's both a business center and a place that embraces forward-thinking design. Now, with the economy booming and local demand for unique-to-Bangkok fashion on the rise, a handful of Thai designers (many of whom have studied and worked in the West) are opening their own pret-a-porter shops, most in the upscale malls of the central Siam Center/Siam Paragon shopping area. Here's the best of the new crop. SHERIDAN PRASSO
1. Another Hound (by Greyhound) 
 The latest outpost of Thailand's biggest fashion house, Greyhound, sells only the company's high-end Grey label. On offer are streamlined khaki sportswear for men and traditional Laotian textiles reworked into women's shorts and skirts. Siam Paragon, 1/F; 011-66-2-129-4358.
 2. Baking Soda
 The designer Duangta Nantakwang, known for her club wear, introduced a new women's line early this year exclusively for this location. It's very ladylike -- think lots of lace, bows and pleats. Siam Center, 3/F; 011-66-2-251-5968. 
 3. Tube Gallery
 Palm Beach pastels and cowboy chic dominate both the men's and women's lines of Saksit Pisalasupongs and Phisit Jongnarangsin, a design team with backgrounds in theater and dance. They've been pioneers at Siam Center, adding larger sizes for an international clientele and renovating their shop to create distinct spaces for each line. Siam Center, 3/F; 011-66-2-635-2736.
 4. Boudoir
 Thailand's first designer lingerie line is the brainchild of Disaya Prakobsantisukh, who worked with John Galliano in Paris. Within pink-quilted walls are exquisite negligees and lacy underpinnings, in sizes mostly for tiny figures. An online store with ready-to-wear and jewelry is planned for fall. Erawan Bangkok at Grand Hyatt Hotel, Shop 301 (3/F); 011-66-2-250-7667; www.boudoir.co.th.
 5. Enlever Ses Vetements 
 Suparerk Bhasaputra, who studied at the School of Visual Arts in New York, returned to Bangkok two years ago to establish his own men's label of clean-lined jackets, pants and shirts in a subdued palette of white, beige and gray. It's a refreshing antidote to the bold prints and narrow cuts of most Thai men's wear. 116/10 Sukhumvit Soi 23; 011-66-2-640-8088.
 6. Inspired by Inner Complexity
 Bangkok's creative types head to Issariya Virajsilp and Nuttawat Suthapong's shop for ultracool but affordable men's and women's clothes. This season's collection, called Inspired by Christ, includes T-shirts with ''Jesus'' written on them in Hebrew, as well as angelic-looking white skirts and dresses. Next month, they are expanding beyond their concept store in a gated compound to a space in this location: Siam Center, 3/F; 011-66-2-258-4488.
 7. Flynow III
 Flynow began in 1983 as a small women's line, but it has become one of the country's biggest fashion brands, with nine shops in Thailand and floor space at Browns in London. The company's new venture is a younger, Morocco-inspired line featuring jeans, dresses and hippyish patchwork handbags. Siam Center, 3/F; 011-66-2-658-1170.
 8. Munchu's
 The ex-Greyhound protege Munchumart Numbenjapol designs girly dresses in velvet, chiffon and satin that suggest Marc Jacobs. Also check out the cropped jodhpurs and striped nautical T-shirts. Siam Center, 3/F; 011-66-2-658-1134.


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photographs By Charlie Crane)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: READY TO WEAR (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); MEN (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (73%); LINGERIE (72%); TEXTILES (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); DANCE (64%) 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (52%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (52%)

PERSON: Sheridan Prasso

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) THAILAND (95%); UNITED STATES (78%); ASIA (73%); FRANCE (58%) Bangkok (Thailand); Thailand

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



489 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: September 24, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1		1	THE BOOK OF FATE, by Brad Meltzer. (Warner, $25.99.) The apparent murder of a presidential aide reveals Masonic secrets in Washington and a 200-year-old code invented by Thomas Jefferson.		 	 	 	2	1	2	RISE AND SHINE, by Anna Quindlen. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of two sisters, one the host of a popular morning television show and the other a social worker, in two very different New Yorks.		 	 	 	3		1	DARK CELEBRATION, by Christine Feehan. (Berkley, $23.95.) Carpathians from around the world join together to oppose their enemies' plot to kill all Carpathian women.		 	 	 	4	2	6	JUDGE & JURY, by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An aspiring actress and an F.B.I. agent join forces against a powerful mobster.		 	 	 	5	3	4	RICOCHET, by Sandra Brown. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A detective is attracted to a judge's wife who he suspects is not telling the truth about a fatal shooting.		 	 	 	6	4	3	THE AFGHAN, by Frederick Forsyth. (Putnam, $26.95.) To foil a Qaeda plot, a British operative masquerades as a Taliban commander just released from Guantanamo.		 	 	 	7	9	4	INTO THE STORM, by Suzanne Brockmann. (Ballantine, $21.95.) A Navy Seal and a former cop work together to track a serial killer in a remote corner of New Hampshire.		 	 	 	8	5	2	THE EMPEROR'S CHILDREN, by Claire Messud. (Knopf, $25.) A group of privileged 30-somethings try to make their way in literary New York just before 9/11.		 	 	 	9	7	3	HUNTERS OF DUNE, by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $27.95.) Adventures of the fugitives fleeing the ''Honored Matres,'' based on Frank Herbert's final outline for the Dune series.		 	 	 	10		1	THE GUY NOT TAKEN, by Jennifer Weiner. (Atria, $24.95.) Stories about women and relationships from the author of ''In Her Shoes.''		 	 	 	11	6	2	ARMAGEDDON'S CHILDREN, by Terry Brooks. (Del Rey/Ballantine, $26.95.) In an urban, postapocalyptic United States, Knights of the Word battle the Void.		 	 	 	12	10	12	WATER FOR ELEPHANTS, by Sara Gruen. (Algonquin, $23.95.) A young man -- and an elephant -- save a Depression-era circus.		 	 	 	13		1	ALL AUNT HAGAR'S CHILDREN, by Edward P. Jones. (Amistad, $25.95.) Short stories, mostly set in Washington, by the author of ''The Known World.''		 	 	 	14*	16	2	FOOL ME ONCE, by Fern Michaels. (Kensington, $24.) A young woman grapples with revelations about her mother's true identity and her past.		 	 	 	15	11	4	SPY, by Ted Bell. (Atria, $25.95.) The British Secret Service agent Alex Hawke journeys into the Amazon to try to thwart an attack that could destroy America.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	6	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	2	2	47	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	3	5	75	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	4	7	5	THE LOOMING TOWER, by Lawrence Wright. (Knopf, $27.95.) The road to 9/11 as seen through the lives of terrorist planners and the F.B.I. counterterrorism chief.		 	 	 	5	4	7	FIASCO, by Thomas E. Ricks. (Penguin Press, $27.95.) How the Bush administration's and the military's failure to understand the developing Iraqi insurgency contributed to its further growth.		 	 	 	6	3	3	STATE OF EMERGENCY, by Patrick J. Buchanan. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $24.95.) The conservative commentator argues that unchecked immigration means that the American Southwest is being reconquered by Mexico, and offers a border-security plan.		 	 	 	7	6	74	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	8	11	2	ELIZABETH, by J. Randy Taraborrelli. (Warner, $26.99.) A biography of E. Taylor.		 	 	 	9	15	16	DISPATCHES FROM THE EDGE, by Anderson Cooper. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) The CNN correspondent describes covering the tsunami in Sri Lanka, the war in Iraq and Hurricane Katrina.		 	 	 	10	9	4	WINS, LOSSES, AND LESSONS, by Lou Holtz. (Morrow, $25.95.) The retired football coach turned motivational speaker tells his life story.		 	 	 	11	14	18	MAYFLOWER, by Nathaniel Philbrick. (Viking, $29.95.) How America began, from the author of ''In the Heart of the Sea.''		 	 	 	12		1	BANKRUPT, by David Limbaugh. (Regnery, $27.95.) The intellectual and moral bankruptcy of the Democratic Party, by a lawyer and syndicated columnist.		 	 	 	13		7	THE LANGUAGE OF GOD, by Francis S. Collins. (Free Press, $26.) The head of the Human Genome Project argues that faith in God and faith in science can coexist.		 	 	 	14	10	80	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	15		1	CHUCK KLOSTERMAN IV, by Chuck Klosterman. (Scribner, $25.) Essays on popular culture from the author of ''Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs.''		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Sept. 9, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

THE GREATEST STORY EVER SOLD: The Decline and Fall of Truth From 9/11 to Katrina, by Frank Rich. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) The New York Times columnist indicts the Bush administration's approach to message management.
 A SPOT OF BOTHER, by Mark Haddon. (Doubleday, $24.95.) A novel of British suburban melodrama from the ''Dog in the Night-Time'' author.
 THE MISSION SONG, by John le Carre. (Little, Brown, $26.99.) A translator is caught up in a plan for a Congolese coup in le Carre's latest novel.
 BLIND WILLOW, SLEEPING WOMAN: Twenty-Four Stories, by Haruki Murakami. Translated by Philip Gabriel and Jay Rubin. (Knopf, $24.95.) A career-spanning grab bag of work.
 KENSINGTON GARDENS, by Rodrigo Fresan. Translated by Natasha Wimmer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) This novel's unbalanced narrator, a children's writer, juxtaposes his life with that of J. M. Barrie, the author of ''Peter Pan.''
 SCAR TISSUE, by Charles Wright. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) Wright's poetry extols the world's paradoxically permanent flux. 
 THE MYSTERY GUEST, by Gregoire Bouillier. Translated by Lorin Stein. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $18.) Bouillier's highly literate memoir gives sad, funny shape to a broken love affair. 
 TOUCHY SUBJECTS: Stories, by Emma Donoghue.(Harcourt, $24.) Lucid contemporary tales in a variety of styles, with humor ascendant. WINTER'S BONE, by Daniel Woodrell. (Little, Brown, $22.99.) This novel's tough heroine seeks her fugitive father across the Ozarks, a milieu rendered in a ramshackle, beautiful realism. 
 TWICE A STRANGER: The Mass Expulsions That Forged Modern Greece and Turkey, by Bruce Clark. (Harvard University, $29.95.) Both the diplomatic and the human stories of the two countries' post-World War I population exchange. 
 THE PUNISHMENT OF VIRTUE: Inside Afghanistan After the Taliban, by Sarah Chayes. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) A journalist and aid worker's close portrait of a land still in danger.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ESPIONAGE (77%); WOMEN (76%); SHOOTINGS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); JURY TRIALS (69%); TALIBAN (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



490 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2352 words

HEADLINE: The Multimedia Synergistic Slumber Party

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
CASSIE SCERBO, a preternaturally poised 16-year-old wearing Juicy Couture sweats and a pair of Versace sunglasses resting atop her platinum blond locks, was contemplating fame and the motivation required to attain it. ''Since I was a little girl, I've always wanted to be a megastar, not just a superstar,'' she said over a recent breakfast at Le Parker Meridien, the Manhattan hotel. ''I always say, there's people that want it really, really, really bad, and then there's people who just cannot live without it. That's me.'' 
 That day she and the four other equally self-assured, equally enthusiastic members of the Slumber Party Girls would resume a rigorous week of promotional duties for their newly formed pop band, followed by a long weekend of rest with their families, before returning to Los Angeles for another month of voice lessons and dance rehearsals. Still, Ms. Scerbo was reluctant to describe any of these activities as work. ''Even if I didn't have to, I'd be doing this,'' she said. ''I'd be in my mirror at home, just dreaming about it.'' 
In her wildest fantasies Ms. Scerbo probably could not have dreamed up the formidable launching pad that has been built to propel her and her new band mates to pop stardom. Having been together just two months, the Slumber Party Girls now reign over three straight hours of Saturday morning television as the hostesses of ''KOL Secret Slumber Party'' on CBS. An extended block of animated and live-action programming, it culminates each week in ''Dance Revolution,'' a dance competition on which they serve as the house band. 
 In October their debut album, full of upbeat anthems aimed at 9- to 13-year-old listeners, will be released by Geffen Records. Still want more? You can watch for continuous music and video updates on KOL, a children-theme AOL channel, or wait for a made-for-television movie and a second television series planned for the following months. 
 All of which makes the Slumber Party Girls -- motivated, energetic and soon to be ubiquitous -- an embodiment of the latest way to reach young consumers in their so-called 'tween years: using every possible avenue at once.
 THE Slumber Party Girls made their television debut on Sept. 16. In a series of short, high-energy skits sandwiched between Saturday morning cartoon shows like ''Sabrina'' and ''Trollz,'' the young performers offered positive advice: Dancing is good exercise! Fruit is nutritious! And as the opening credits rolled on ''Dance Revolution,'' the Slumber Party Girls took to its neon-and-pastel stage with no narrative elements to explain who they were or how they had come together; they were just five industrious girls in leggings and short-shorts, strutting their stuff and singing about being best friends.
 But before they sang their first perky note, several major media organizations had spent nearly a year planning the girls' entrance. Last October, as it prepared to end its partnership with Nickelodeon, CBS turned to DIC Entertainment, an independent studio specializing in children's television programming, to supply a new Saturday lineup. 
 Having seen CBS gradually lose young viewer to competitors like Kids' WB and Cartoon Network, DIC's chairman, Andy Heyward, had a plan to keep young viewers tuned in: he proposed ''a threaded morning that had one theme going through the whole block,'' a recurring element that would hold youngsters' attention from start to finish. 
 Mr. Heyward approached Ron Fair, the veteran music executive, about providing songs for the ''Dance Revolution'' show. But Mr. Fair, who in August was named chairman of Geffen Records, had bigger ambitions. ''I said, 'You ought to have a group on there,' '' he recalled, ' ''so that every time you cut to a commercial or an interstitial -- we'll be right back and don't forget to eat your vegetables -- we continue to build awareness in our own John, Paul, George and Ringo.' ''
 Mr. Fair's instincts are usually reliable: he shepherded the Pussycat Dolls from a burlesque troupe to a platinum-selling musical act and transformed an unknown singer named Stacy Ferguson into the pop sensation Fergie by pairing her with the Black Eyed Peas. Seeing an environment where 'tweens had helped make ''American Idol'' the top-rated television series of 2006 and the soundtrack to Disney's ''High School Musical'' the year's best-selling album so far, he anticipated that they would soon be clamoring for a pop-music group to call their own.
 ''What we can do,'' Mr. Fair said, ''is provide an age-appropriate yet really entertaining experience for kids that doesn't speak to them in Barney's voice. It's speaking to them in an adult, cool, hip voice that they can understand.''
 In July, Geffen and DIC began auditioning about 1,000 teenage girls at locations around Hollywood who could sing, dance and act. By the end of the month they had selected five winners with varying degrees of performance experience. At one end of the spectrum was Ms. Scerbo, born in Dix Hills, N.Y., and raised in Parkland, Fla., who started attending a charm school for acting at 7 and had already traveled worldwide as part of a dance troupe called Hip Hop Kidz. At the other end was Karla Deras, 17, a Los Angeles native of Mexican and Salvadoran heritage who had never sung or acted professionally and is now seeking her first agent. And Lina Carattini, 16, had left her hometown, Portage, Ind., only once before (to attend television auditions in Los Angeles).
 Over a boisterous breakfast at Norma's in Le Parker Meridien, during which the girls constantly switched seats and intermittently fiddled with glitter-painted digital devices, they each confessed to varying degrees of nervousness at the auditions. ''We saw each other as competition at first,'' said Mallory Low, a gregarious 18-year-old Southern Californian, who met and carefully befriended several of her future band mates during the tryout process. Ms. Low was at the gym when she got the call. Ms. Scerbo was in the parking lot of a mall. Ms. Deras was at the motor vehicles department taking a test for a driver's permit. They all cried.
 After toasting her success at a local IHOP, Ms. Deras called Ms. Low. She proceeded gingerly, as if trying to figure out her friend's SAT scores. Eventually Ms. Low confessed the good news: ''I was like: 'I'm celebrating. What are you doing?' '' she said. ''She was like, 'I'm celebrating too.' I knew she wouldn't have called me if there wasn't anything going on.'' 
 Caroline Scott, 15, was on her way home to Memphis from the band's first audition when she got a call inviting her to a callback. She persuaded her mother to turn the car around and head back to Los Angeles. While her parents were on a business trip to China (during which she was staying at a friend's house), Ms. Scott learned she had landed the job. ''My friend was like, 'So, can you spend the night next week?' '' she said. ''I was like: 'You know what? You have to plan that I can't spend the night for about three months.' ''
 In late July the Slumber Party Girls officially convened for the first time, at the Record Plant studios in Hollywood. There they were formally introduced to Mr. Fair and given songs and choreography to learn. They also got detailed itineraries for 60 days of recording sessions, video shoots, vocal instructions and one all-important licensing meeting, held at the Museum of Television and Radio in Beverly Hills and attended by Wal-Mart, McDonald's, Target and Hasbro, among others. The girls say they were undaunted. ''In Hollywood,'' Ms. Scerbo said, ''either you're on the go or waiting, and I'd rather be on the go.''
 At the same time they were provided with an official mentor in the form of Stefanie Ridel. Ms. Ridel, 33, is an executive producer on the Slumber Party Girls record. She's also Mr. Fair's girlfriend. But beyond that she had been a member of the all-female pop trio Wild Orchid (her band mates included the artist not yet known as Fergie), and she knows from experience why the girls would submit themselves to such a relentless work routine. 
 ''I didn't go to a lot of my things in high school, and I sacrificed a lot to be in Wild Orchid,'' Ms. Ridel said, ''but it was my passion. These girls grew up in an age where they're watching 'American Idol,' they're seeing people become stars overnight, and I think they've all been waiting for this. They won the lottery, and we tell them that.''
 In four weeks they recorded a 13-track album. That pace left little room for experimentation. ''We didn't have the time to cultivate anything that wasn't who these girls really are,'' Ms. Ridel said. ''If they couldn't sing a lyric, they just went on to another one. They have this raw energy, and that's what we got on tape.''
 Along the way the group was videotaped at every recording, photo and dance session, to create additional content for the Web, for a DVD, or for any other medium that someday becomes popular with 'tweens. ''All the platforms have to be open for business or it doesn't work anymore,'' Mr. Fair said. ''It's radio, it's Internet, it's TV, it's cellphones, it's whatever -- micro-sonic inkblots.'' 
 But he insists the strategy can't work if the music doesn't. ''People like to say it's prefab or it's manufactured or whatever, but it's really no different than four guys getting together to form a band and going into a garage and creating a vibe for themselves,'' Mr. Fair said. ''Except for the fact that someone was at the helm, doing it.'' 
 There are strong economic motivations for a record label to pursue such a young audience: in 2005 alone, consumers 10 to 14 purchased 8.6 percent of all recorded music, just over $1 billion of a market valued at more than $12 billion, according to a study published by the Recording Industry Association of America. But there are no data to suggest that today's 'tweens are any more discerning than their counterparts of 20 or 30 years ago; they may be the last group of listeners who are still susceptible to a Monkees-style all-media blitz.
 ''Unfortunately they're very impressionable at this age,'' said Janet Giovanelli, the editor in chief of J-14, a 'tween-oriented entertainment magazine. ''If they're seeing the Slumber Party Girls everywhere, on commercials, on TV, on the Web, on iTunes, they come to the conclusion, 'Well, they must be popular, and maybe I should like them.' '' 
 IN their live performances, the Slumber Party Girls are learning to convey their individuality. They were carefully chosen to represent a range of ethnicities: two Caucasians, one Hispanic, one Asian and one of mixed African-American and Latin descent. (A made-for-television movie, which Mr. Fair and Ms. Ridel wrote in a single weekend, promises to provide the group with a ''Wizard of Oz''-like origin story.) But for now, as they dance and sing their repertory -- a mix of pop and dance songs with unapologetically innocuous titles like ''Bubble Gum'' and ''Good Times'' -- they have little more than five distinctive wardrobe styles to differentiate themselves. It's Spice Girls-style diversity, though the Slumber Party Girls don't savor the comparison. ''Not all of them sang, not all of them danced,'' Ms. Scott said. ''I don't want to be thought of as a cheesy, manufactured girl group.'' 
 In person the girls tend to speak in a singularly media-savvy voice about the break they've been given. They are all grateful and blessed to be living out their dreams, and they all thank God and their families for the support they've received along the way. And they have all studied the ''Behind the Music'' pitfalls of pop stardom. ''I don't want to be one of those one-hit wonder stars,'' Ms. Scerbo said. ''I want to have longevity.''
 After enough time in their company, however, you may glimpse them behaving like actual teenagers. They giggle and gossip, and they seemed a bit overwhelmed by their first stay in a luxury New York hotel. In August they attended the Teen Choice Awards, where the mere sight of the actor Johnny Depp was enough to render them collectively speechless. And their most cherished memory from the month they spent in the recording studio was a giant book of menus from which they could order food from nearly any 24-hour diner in the Los Angeles area. ''We had lots of vegetables and well-balanced meals,'' Ms. Scerbo said, rolling her eyes. 
 ''Is that a joke?'' Ms. Low replied. 
 But while two months may be sufficient time to learn a set of songs and accompanying dance steps, it may not be enough to prepare the Slumber Party Girls for the polished competition they face. For example the Cheetah Girls, a Disney-branded pop quartet, have already released three hit albums and appear in their own line of Disney Channel movies. ''We are fighting for the same audience,'' Ms. Carattini said. ''It's going to be a Britney-Christina thing. You're going to choose one or the other.'' 
 Then there are the rites of passage that no pre-emptive pep talks can ward off. ''One day Cassie's going to be the favorite, one day it's going to be Karla, one day it's going to be Lina,'' Ms. Ridel said. ''All the things that go with sharing the spotlight with four other girls. That's the hard part of living in a girl group, and that's why girl groups usually break up.'' 
 Having been down this road once before, Ms. Ridel said she was in no hurry to usher her proteges into the wider world. ''I miss those girls already,'' she admitted. ''I tell them they're each special, and they each shine in their own way, and they have a long way to go.'' 
 But the girls themselves are rarely nostalgic, not even for the lives they're giving up for a chance at stardom. ''I actually do not enjoy school that much,'' Ms. Deras said, ''other than being with my friends, but I'll get to see them outside of school. This is all I've ever wanted, so to be doing this. I'd rather do this than school any time.''
 Ms. Carattini agreed. ''I went to school all the way to sophomore year,'' she said. ''I went to all the dances and football games. You just have to look at the bigger picture.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Slumber Party Girls, top, at work, and above from left, at rest: Mallory Low, Cassie Scerbo, Lina Carattini, Karla Deras and Caroline Scott. (pg. 1)
 Mallory Low, Karla Deras, Cassie Scerbo, Lina Carattini and Caroline Scott were chosen among about 1,000 girls who auditioned for the group. (pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); YOUTH MARKET (74%); POP & ROCK (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); DANCE (72%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (69%); TWEENS MARKET (67%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (67%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (64%) Music; Television; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Children and Youth

ORGANIZATION: Slumber Party Girls (Music Group); Aol (America Online)

PERSON: Dave Itzkoff

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



491 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3673 words

HEADLINE: So Small a Town, So Many Patent Suits

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

DATELINE: Marshall, Tex. 

 BODY:
ON a crisp Monday morning earlier this month, about 20 lawyers from some of the country's top law firms shuffled their way into a brightly lit, wood-paneled federal courtroom in this small city in eastern Texas.
 Wearing white shirts and dark suits, the lawyers congregated in small groups, leaning into one another with their arms crossed and speaking in hushed tones.
At precisely 8:30 a.m., a series of knocks on the right side of the courtroom signaled the entrance of Judge T. John Ward, a blur of black robe and white hair, who quickly took his seat and, with little preamble, began the proceedings.
 Over the next few minutes, a 10-person jury listened raptly as lawyers for both sides laid out the case. Hyperion Solutions, a software company based in Santa Clara, Calif., accused the OutlookSoft Corporation of Stamford, Conn., of infringing two of its patents, causing $50 million in damages. A lawyer for OutlookSoft said the company did not steal any patented technology, adding that Hyperion's patents were not even valid. 
 What was remarkable about the trial was not the issue being tried or the arguments proffered by each side, but that these big companies -- like dozens more from the East and West Coasts -- wound up in the Federal District Court here in Marshall, the self-proclaimed Pottery Capital of the World and home to the annual Fire Ant Festival (sponsored by Terminix, the pest-control company).
 More patent lawsuits will be filed here this year than in federal district courts in San Francisco, Chicago, New York and Washington. Only the Central District of California, in Los Angeles, will handle more patent infringement cases.
 On the surface, there is little to recommend Marshall as a locus for global corporations looking to duke it out over who owns the rights to important technology patents. Some 150 miles east of Dallas, and just minutes from the Louisiana border, Marshall and its 25,000 residents are fairly typical of most small cities in Texas. Marshall is a place where friendships last a lifetime and rivalries even longer, where residents still talk about the Civil War, debate on street corners about decades-old high school football games, and conduct midday business meetings over plates of meatloaf, mashed potatoes and banana pudding.
 What sets Marshall apart from its neighbors is a red-hot patent docket. Four years ago, 32 patent lawsuits were filed in the Federal Eastern District of Texas, which includes Tyler, Texarkana and Marshall. This year, an estimated 234 cases will be filed in the district, a majority of them in Marshall. 
 What's behind the rush to file patent lawsuits here? A combination of quick trials and plaintiff-friendly juries, many lawyers say. Patent cases are heard faster in Marshall than in many other courts. And while only a small number of cases make it to trial -- roughly 5 percent -- patent holders win 78 percent of the time, compared with an average of 59 percent nationwide, according to LegalMetric, a company that tracks patent litigation.
 Those odds are daunting enough to encourage many corporate defendants to settle before setting foot in Marshall. Add to that the fact that jurors here have a history of handing out Texas-sized verdicts to winners. In April, for instance, a Marshall jury returned a $73 million verdict against EchoStar Communications for infringing the patents of TiVo.
 MARSHALL was once one of the most prominent and wealthy cities in Texas, but much of the city's industry and many of its downtown shops disappeared in recent decades. Now, thanks to an influx of out-of-town lawyers and the increased investment in real estate by a handful of local leaders, Marshall is in the early stages of a revival.
 The sounds of hammers and electric saws echo across the brick-paved streets that line its picturesque downtown square as buildings that stood empty for years are being transformed into office space for rent. 
 Restaurants that depended on tourists drawn to town by the Fire Ant Festival, the Stagecoach Days Festival and the winter Wonderland of Lights display now do a brisk business catering lunches and dinners for visiting lawyers. Some hotel chains along Interstate 20, south of downtown, are running at 95 percent occupancy rates during the week.
 ''During the TiVo-EchoStar trial, 90 percent of my revenue for one month came from one of the law firms in the case,'' said Phillip W. Gurganus, manager of the local 68-room Hampton Inn, where rates run $77 a night. 
 His mother, a former Texas tort reform lobbyist, helps to serve breakfast at the hotel. ''I loved getting that check and taking it to the bank,'' he added.
 How far the dollars from visiting lawyers trickle through Marshall's economy remains unclear and is the subject of discussion among local leaders. 
 For much of its history, Marshall has been a community divided by wealth and race. People whose grandparents or great-grandparents made fortunes from oil, natural gas or railroads live in gated mansions and rarely mix with those who frequent the local Wal-Mart or many downtown finance shops that make $300 loans. The median family income in Marshall is $30,000.
 ''The majority of Marshallites don't even know the patent docket exists,'' said Johnny B. Taylor, a native of Marshall who returned and started an office rental business after spending 31 years as a police officer in Arlington, Tex. ''There's one way the docket affects them: they can't find parking.''
 Cranking up the air-conditioner of her father-in-law's 1990 red Cadillac DeVille with a matching red leather interior, Geraldine Mauthe, the city's bubbly and silver-haired convention-and-visitors director, begins the tour of town. 
 Turning away from the pale yellow century-old Harrison County Courthouse, which is being renovated and updated to handle Marshall's rapidly expanding patent docket, Ms. Mauthe often stops the Cadillac in the middle of the street -- eliciting sharp honks from cars behind her -- to point out local sights.
 This much can be said about Marshall: It is not lacking in churches (50 Baptist, 35 of other Protestant denominations and 1 Roman Catholic), historic homes (many built in the 1850's) and, oddly, funeral homes. ''We have seven. Four for blacks and three for whites,'' Ms. Mauthe said, matter-of-factly. 
 When she drove past a hair salon that offered haircuts, tanning and the services of a notary public, Ms. Mauthe rubbed her fingers together and said: ''You got to make money somehow.''
 Oh yes, Ms. Mauthe added, Marshall and its robust legal community go back a long way. In the late 1800's, she said, Marshall was a bustling city, a transportation gateway to the North, linking local cotton farmers and the Texas and Pacific Railway.
 As the railroad was built, personal-injury lawyers came to town to represent injured workers. In more recent decades, Scott Baldwin, Franklin Jones and other Marshall-based plaintiffs' lawyers generated tens of millions of dollars in fees -- and grabbed the national spotlight -- by pursuing class-action lawsuits against companies that used asbestos and silica, and against the pharmaceutical and tobacco industries.
 By the late 1990's, though, it looked as if the good times were ending for Marshall's lawyers. Broad tort reform in the state had limited punitive damages and later capped damages on medical malpractice lawsuits, effectively limiting the fees that lawyers could make.
 In Marshall, an oft-told joke is that the passage of tort reform was when many local lawyers made the trip from P.I. to I.P. -- that is, they moved out of personal injury and into intellectual property.
 That was the road traveled by Samuel F. Baxter, a former state district court judge who had become a personal-injury lawyer, after he received a call from a lawyer in Dallas in 1996, asking him to help out in a patent lawsuit in Marshall. ''I told him, 'No, I don't know anything about patents,' '' Mr. Baxter recalled as he reclined far back in his chair in his Marshall office, which included an autographed Cy Young baseball and aging maps of the United States depicting an outsized Republic of Texas.
 Mr. Baxter was eventually persuaded to take the case and was the lead trial lawyer defending Samsung in a patent lawsuit filed by Texas Instruments, which eventually settled. Since then, Mr. Baxter, who is a principal at McKool Smith, a Dallas-based law firm with a full-time office in Marshall, has been involved in a number of patent cases; in one, he helped represent TiVo in its patent fight with EchoStar.
 Charmingly loquacious about his two adopted sons and local Civil War history, Mr. Baxter turns economical with his words when asked why the federal court in Marshall handles more patent lawsuits than federal courts in much larger cities.
 ''One, speed kills,'' he said. ''If you're the plaintiff, you can go fast and get a resolution faster here than you can a lot of other places. 
 ''Second, there's a dearth of good lawsuits these days for lawyers to handle,'' he added. ''You know lawyers: they go where the money is.''
 THE testing of Marshall as a patent battleground began nearly two decades ago, when Texas Instruments, which has its headquarters in Dallas, embarked on an aggressive strategy to make rivals license its patents. If a company would not capitulate or at least negotiate, a Texas Instruments team of lawyers would drag it to court -- increasingly, down the road to the uncluttered courtrooms of Marshall.
 In September 1999, Mr. Ward, a malpractice and product-liability lawyer with a practice nearby, in Longview, was sworn in to the East Texas federal bench.
 A no-nonsense judge who charms people with his folksy demeanor but who also has a reputation for a fiery temper in the courtroom, Judge Ward began hearing patent cases. As a private lawyer, he had argued a few such cases; as a judge, however, he quickly grew frustrated at the slow pace, paperwork, and delays and motions that were part of a patent docket.
 That's when he adopted what he calls ''the Rules.'' As any lawyer who has shown up in Judge Ward's courtroom will testify, the Rules put patent lawsuits on a strict timetable, laying out when key documents must be handed over and setting firm trial dates.
 No 100-page motions or lawyer soliloquies are tolerated in Judge Ward's courtroom. He puts page limits on documents and uses a chess clock to time opening and closing arguments, brusquely interrupting lawyers when it is time for them to wind it up.
 The changes turned Marshall's federal court into a ''rocket docket'' -- a place where the time between filing and trying a lawsuit became significantly shorter than in other districts.
 ''I really shot myself in the foot when I adopted the Rules,'' Judge Ward said with a laugh, sitting in a leather chair in his quiet, wood-paneled chambers during a lunch recess in the Hyperion-OutlookSoft trial. The reason, he added, was that the district was soon deluged by patent suits filed by companies seeking a quick resolution to their conflicts. While judges in nearby cities also began to hear patent cases, most of them remain before Judge Ward.
 The expedited process pleases clients, though it is sometimes hard on the lawyers who break the Rules.
 ''When he's mad, first his face gets red,'' said Michael C. Smith, a lawyer with the Roth Law Firm in Marshall. ''Then his neck gets red and he starts tucking his chin down into his chest. If he tears off his glasses, I don't care what side you're on, you had better drop to the floor and get under that table fast.''
 Judge Ward said that he did not often lose his temper. ''If I tell a lawyer to stop leading the witness and he continues, well, we're going to have a problem,'' he said.
 SPEED is not the only feature bringing patent holders to Marshall. So, too, is the fact that they usually win. Three-fourths of the cases that come to trial in Marshall are decided in favor of the plaintiffs, compared with less than half in New York.
 The success rate for patent holders in Marshall is a great incentive for defendants to settle matters quickly and privately. Since 1991, the Federal District Court in Marshall has held less than half the number of full patent trials as courts in Los Angeles, New York, Chicago and San Francisco. 
 ''I would say that this is, historically anyway, a plaintiffs-oriented district,'' Judge Ward said, noting that he lost a large patent suit there himself when he was practicing. He was part of the team representing Hyundai Electronics in 1999 when it lost a $25.2 million verdict in a lawsuit filed by Texas Instruments.
 Others point to a different reason why plaintiffs may win more often than defendants: plaintiffs, they say, typically hire local Marshall lawyers. Hiring local in Marshall means that you will get a lawyer who not only knows the jurors, but who also probably knows their friends and even personal details like how often they go to church, local lawyers say.
 ''We had a Fourth of July party and we circulated the jury lists to people there on the boat dock,'' said Joy Berry, a local lawyer who advises out-of-town law firms in jury selections. ''By the time the party was over, we knew quite a bit about nearly everyone'' on a list of potential jurors for coming trials, she said. 
 Mr. Smith of the Roth Law Firm said it could be difficult for outside lawyers to blend in and noted that some even tried to curry favor with jurors by taking on a drawl or wearing cowboy boots. ''I call them T.B.L.'s, or 'tall building lawyers,' '' he said. ''They don't take their coats off no matter how hot it is down here.''
 Indeed, local lawyers love to swap stories about visiting colleagues and their clients from bigger cities or from abroad.
 One of Mr. Baxter's favorites is about an out-of-town lawyer, a vegan, who wanted a late-night meal. ''She walked over to Wendy's and tried to order a salad through the drive-in window,'' he recalled. ''She was told she needed to be in a car to order through the drive-in window so she walked back over to the hotel, woke up one of the firm's partners and had him take her through the drive-in window.'' He laughed uproariously at the memory.
 M. Craig Tyler, a lawyer in the Austin, Tex., office of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, the big Silicon Valley law firm, is fond of recounting how visitors react to Texas hospitality. ''We've had many meals with clients from the Pacific Rim who take out their cellphones and send pictures back home when they see the portions of the meals in Marshall,'' he said. ''They thought it was family style, that one plate would feed many people.''
 And then there are the tight-knit relationships that visiting lawyers encounter when they work in Marshall. In one patent case that eventually was settled, the plaintiffs hired an accountant whose clients included Judge Ward. 
 Patent litigation is a growing business across the country; Marshall is just the most visible example. Among the weightier issues behind the mushrooming of its patent docket is whether the elements that have made it expand -- hungry plaintiffs' lawyers, speedy judges and plaintiff-friendly juries -- are encouraging an excess of expensive litigation that is actually stifling innovation.
 Some say yes. ''A lot of the cases being filed in Marshall are by patent holding companies, or patent trolls, as they're called, whose primary and only assets are patents,'' Mr. Tyler said.
 Companies spent 32 percent more on outside counsel for intellectual property litigation in 2003 than in the previous year, Chuck Fish, the chief patent counsel for Time Warner, told the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet and Intellectual Property earlier this year. Spending for all other litigation rose a mere 1 percent during that time, Mr. Fish said.
 Defending Marshall's role, many residents note that not only is it cheaper to hold a trial in Marshall, but that it is neutral territory for virtually all corporations that find themselves in court here.
 ''It's not as if you have a situation here where Microsoft is hated or Cisco is spit upon,'' Mr. Baxter said. ''Whether it happens in Marshall, Tex., or Des Moines, Iowa, these lawsuits are going to happen. They might as well happen here.''
 And many in Marshall are looking for ways to profit from the patent gusher.
 THE paint is peeling and the wallpaper in the bathroom is nothing short of hideous, but all Johnny Taylor sees as he walks through the former doctor's office he just bought in town is space for as many as 16 lawyers.
 ''Furnished office space is renting for $1 to $1.50 a square foot per week. So, a 2,000-square-foot office can get $2,000 per week,'' said Mr. Taylor, who has already wired the building for high-speed Internet access and created marshallofficespace.com to highlight offices for rent and offer advertising to local businesses.
 One of the first challenges for visiting lawyers arriving in Marshall is cramped quarters. They often roll into town with semitrailer trucks that have traveled from San Francisco or New York containing everything that could be needed to try a case, including volumes of documents, copying machines, desks, video and audio equipment and even cappuccino machines.
 Some people in Marshall are trying to save them the trouble by providing fully equipped office space on short-term leases. 
 ''We're going to have a 6,000-square-foot space for a war room that we can rent out for $7,500 to $10,000 a week,'' said Leslie D. Ware, a patent lawyer in Dallas, who bought a former furniture building next door to the federal courthouse. ''A firm could basically walk in, plug in their laptops, work and unplug and go home,'' he said. 
 Others are trying to lure patent dollars through different tacks. Fairfield Inn, which bought a subscription to Pacer, the electronic docket, routinely calls law firms to offer rooms for their lawyers with cases scheduled for trial.
 ''I'm thinking of coming up with a T-shirt for the lawyers,'' said Jennie A. Kelehan, a former financial adviser who moved here from Houston three years ago and is now the co-owner of a wine and specialty store called Under the Texas Sun. She estimated that lawyers in town for the patent docket were responsible for about a sixth of her sales.
 ''The patent lawyers were not in our plans at all,'' she said, ''but they are definitely a huge asset for us and we will start using that as we start planning for the future.''
 Others, though, seem more skeptical about the long-term effect of the patent docket on Marshall's economy. They said they would like to bring in new industries and increase tourism.
 ''For the most part, the rocket docket and the lawyers are 'today dollars,' '' said Alan Grantham, a member of the Marshall Economic Development Corporation and a senior vice president at Bancorp South. ''They spend the night at a hotel, rent cars and eat at restaurants.'' But, he added that the patent docket was not the only factor driving the local economy.
 Others, like Jerry Cargill, who runs a wholesale beverage distributing company in Dallas and has a family farm outside Marshall, said they hoped that increased tourism would play a bigger role in Marshall's comeback.
 In the last three years, Mr. Cargill has bought nine buildings downtown, as well as a $500,000 stake in the historic Hotel Marshall. The City of Marshall put in $1 million and others raised $527,000 to restore the building to its original Italian Renaissance design.
 ''I didn't even hear about the rocket docket until a year ago,'' Mr. Cargill said. ''By then, we were well into the various projects.''
 This fall, a tourism marketing firm is coming to town to create a branding plan and to offer ideas to alter Marshall's infrastructure for tourism. ''It's a unique community,'' Mr. Cargill said. ''It just needs some marketing.''
 Marshall's patent docket may not be able to sustain its current pace of growth. Its reputation for speed is starting to attract so many cases that a certain sluggishness may be setting in. Four years ago, lawsuits took less than two years to go to trial. Now the average time between when a suit is filed and when it goes to court is more than 27 months.
 There is legislative movement afoot as well. This spring, two senators, Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, and Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, introduced a patent reform bill. Among its many provisions is one to limit damages in patent lawsuits and another to require a more substantial connection between a business and the court where it brings a patent lawsuit. 
 ''WE think the bill will restore more balance in the patent system and remove incentives for plaintiffs to run to one jurisdiction and try to hit the jackpot,'' said Mark W. Isakowitz, a lobbyist with the Coalition for Patent Fairness, which advocates patent reform on behalf of corporations. Any reform would likely happen next year at the earliest, lawyers say. 
 But the biggest change in Marshall's status could come if plaintiffs start losing more cases.
 A jury in Judge Ward's courtroom in July stunned observers when it returned a verdict that said WG Security Products had not infringed any of the patents of Sensormatic. 
 The jury in the Hyperion-OutlookSoft case went even further a little over a week ago. After a five-day trial, it deliberated for less than three hours before deciding that OutlookSoft had not infringed the Hyperion patents and that those patents were invalid.
 After the verdict was read, OutlookSoft's legal team returned to the local law office it had been working out of and opened some Champagne, said the company's chief executive, W. Phillip Wilmington, who attended every day of the trial in Marshall.
 ''As we were going through our victory discussion, a big truck pulls up and there goes the copier and fax machines out the door,'' Mr. Wilmington said. ''It disappeared just as quickly as it was set up. I'm sure the week following, there was someone coming in to do it all over again.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with an article about the number of patent lawsuits filed in Marshall, Tex., referred incorrectly to Samuel F. Baxter, a principal at the law firm of McKool Smith. He is a trial lawyer who handles patent cases; he is not a patent lawyer who specializes in obtaining as well as protecting patents.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judge T. John Ward of federal court in Marshall, Tex. Quick trials and plaintiff-friendly juries has made his court one of the busiest for patent cases. (Photo by Mark Graham for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Samuel F. Baxter, a patent lawyer at McKool Smith, has moved from personal-injury cases to more cases covering intellectual property.
Lawyers at the courthouse in Marshall are an increasingly familiar sight now that the court has become a hotbed for patent disputes.
The county courthouse is the center of the downtown square in Marshall, Tex. It is being renovated to accommodate federal patent law trials, helping to revive the once-bustling area. (Photographs by Mark Graham for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
Johnny B. Taylor, a former police officer who has returned to Marshall, in one of the rooms of an office building he hopes to rent out to visiting lawyers. He has already wired the building for high-speed Internet access.
 Ginger Garrett, left, and Jennie A. Kelehan owners of the Under the Texas Sun wine and gift shop, whose patrons include visiting lawyers. (Photographs by Mark Graham for The New York Times)(pg. 9)Chart: ''A Destination for Patent Holders''A high winning percentage for patent holders and relatively fast times to trial have helped make the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas one of the most popular districts for trying patent infringement cases.Graph tracks total patent cases filed for the following selected districts from 2002 through estimated 2006:CaliforniaCentralTexasEasternCaliforniaNorthernNew YorkSouthernIllinoisNorthernTIME TO TRIALSELECTED DISTRICTS: Virginia EasternMONTHS FROM CASE FILING TO TRIAL (2005 - PRESENT): 12SELECTED DISTRICTS: Wisconsin WesternMONTHS FROM CASE FILING TO TRIAL (2005 - PRESENT): 14SELECTED DISTRICTS: Texas EasternMONTHS FROM CASE FILING TO TRIAL (2005 - PRESENT): 27SELECTED DISTRICTS: California CentralMONTHS FROM CASE FILING TO TRIAL (2005 - PRESENT): 28SELECTED DISTRICTS: California NorthernMONTHS FROM CASE FILING TO TRIAL (2005 - PRESENT): 32SELECTED DISTRICTS: New York SouthernMONTHS FROM CASE FILING TO TRIAL (2005 - PRESENT): 44SELECTED DISTRICTS: Illinois NorthernMONTHS FROM CASE FILING TO TRIAL (2005 - PRESENT): 63WINNING PERCENTAGESELECTED DISTRICTS: Texas EasternPERCENT OF CASES WON BY PATENTEE (1991 - PRESENT): 78%SELECTED DISTRICTS: California CentralPERCENT OF CASES WON BY PATENTEE (1991 - PRESENT): 65SELECTED DISTRICTS: California NorthernPERCENT OF CASES WON BY PATENTEE (1991 - PRESENT): 63SELECTED DISTRICTS: Illinois NorthernPERCENT OF CASES WON BY PATENTEE (1991 - PRESENT): 61SELECTED DISTRICTS: New York SouthernPERCENT OF CASES WON BY PATENTEE (1991 - PRESENT): 36(Source by LegalMetric)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (91%); LAWYERS (91%); PATENT LAW (90%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (86%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); DAMAGES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); SPONSORSHIP (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (50%) Inventions and Patents; Suits and Litigation; Jury System

PERSON: Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); TEXARKANA, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (98%) Marshall (Texas); San Francisco (Calif); Chicago (Ill); New York City; Washington; Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



492 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Are You Better Off Than You Were 4 Years Ago? Do You Care?

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
WHY doesn't anyone seem to care about the economy anymore?
 Despite an apparently imminent slowdown, which could cost millions of jobs, economic policy and the general state of the economy have hardly made it onto the evening news of late, let alone onto the Congressional agenda or an electoral platform. It's an odd turn of events, given Americans' obsession a decade ago with the financial markets. During the wild days of the Internet boom, everyone and their dog was investing in stocks. Construction workers could be heard discussing technology stocks over lunch. Pundits like James J. Cramer, analysts like Abby Joseph Cohen and even college professors like Robert J. Shiller of Yale became media superstars.
Lately, however, chatter about the economy seems to have fallen on the list of priorities, both in the news media and in Washington, as terrorism and the war in Iraq dominate public debate.
 ''There is a lot of stuff on the foreign policy side that has a newsworthiness and an urgency that tend to crowd out the domestic,'' said William G. Gale, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution, a left-leaning group in Washington. Citing the worsening economic trend, he added, ''it is kind of remarkable that it's not all over the headlines the way it might be.'' 
 Marginalized economists might be consoled if there were an economic explanation for the lack of attention. Indeed, you can come up with a theory if you try. Much of that extravagant paper wealth generated in the 1990's has disappeared, and so have the assets of many pensions. Given the nation's low saving rate, those investments aren't being replenished quickly. Is it any surprise that fewer people are interested in how the markets are doing? 
 ''The baby boom generation is 10 years older, and getting close to retirement. They've kind of set the tone for what's happened,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a conservative commentator who wrote a book critical of President Bush's economic record. ''They're not driving things the way they did when they were in their peak earning years and peak saving years.''
 But other things are going on, too, Mr. Bartlett said. ''We've had, the last few years anyway, quite a bit of activity in the area of economic policy, especially tax policy, and it might be that people are just kind of fatigued by what's been done.''
 That might also be true of politicians, said Kevin A. Hassett, director of economic policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute, a right-leaning research group. ''I don't think they did anything on the economy, really, this year,'' he said of the administration. ''I don't know why it is that their sights are set so low.''
 Mr. Hassett said his research showed an extremely strong correlation between how people felt about the war in Iraq and how they felt about the economy, even though the war in Iraq isn't necessarily the biggest force driving month-to-month economic performance. He drew the conclusion that sentiment didn't always translate into action.
 ''How people say they feel about the economy is not an accurate reflection of what really motivates them as economic agents,'' he said. ''Americans have said that they're really pessimistic, but they've been anything but cautious with their spending.''
 Mr. Gale suggested that Americans might be addicted to spending, in the form of payments for mortgages, car loans and college tuition. But Mr. Bartlett said that falling gasoline prices -- a factor that people do seem to care about -- might be contributing to the public's blase attitude.
 That attitude is hardly enough to spur politicians into action. But there may be another reason that they haven't initiated any significant economic legislation lately, said Robert Greenstein, president of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning research group. The old practice of reaching behind-the-scenes agreements in Congress to push forward important legislation may be dying out.
 ''The whole atmosphere with each passing year seems to move farther away from what you'd need to have a bipartisan bill, like in 1983 on Social Security,'' Mr. Greenstein said. ''To the degree that they see that there's no prospect for that actually happening in the future, why stick your neck out and talk seriously about that stuff?'' 
 The president did start his second term with an ambitious agenda for tax changes, set forth by a panel he had appointed earlier. But the panel's recommendations have gone absolutely nowhere. ''The tax reform panel did a great job,'' Mr. Hassett said. ''Their report will likely be graduate-school required reading for many years. It was dead on arrival.''
 The process feeds upon itself, Mr. Greenstein added. The news media don't take politicians' partisan posturing seriously, the economy gets less coverage and there is less public appetite for legislation -- so the posturing continues.
 The disaffection may also be growing because some traditional economic maxims don't appear to be holding, Mr. Bartlett said. In the past, many economists might have agreed that higher fiscal deficits would push up interest rates, or that a huge trade deficit would depress the value of the dollar. And although one could argue that interest rates would be still lower without such big deficits, rates are not high in absolute terms.
 As a result, Mr. Bartlett said, there's not much pressure on politicians to act. The only economic policies left to discuss, he asserted, concern divisive issues like immigration and international trade. 
 Big macroeconomic issues could return, Mr. Greenstein said, if the nation's budget and trade deficits bring the country closer to an economic crisis, or if a recession seems imminent. Economists at Goldman Sachs have already been predicting below-average growth through the end of 2007 -- just 2 to 2.5 percent, adjusted for prices, or about 1 percentage point below the long-term norm. Though such slow growth might not imply a recession, millions of people could still lose their jobs if the economists are right. 
 YET such pronouncements don't command the attention they once did. That's not surprising, given the many dire predictions that never came to pass. There never was a double-dip recession, as Stephen S. Roach of Morgan Stanley predicted in 2002, just another year of slow growth. If there ever was a multitrillion-dollar housing bubble, as Dean Baker of the Center for Economic Policy Research wrote back in 2002, it hasn't burst in four years. And the financial crisis that experts have been forecasting -- including, for over a year now, Paul A. Volcker, the chairman of the Federal Reserve from 1979 to 1987-- hasn't arrived.
 So the public could simply be suffering from a case of ignoring the boy who cried wolf. But if that's true, Mr. Bartlett said, there's a little problem: ''Eventually, the wolf did come around, remember?''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The War and the Economy''According to New York Times / CBS News polls, public opinion on the state of the Iraq war and the state of the national economy have both trended downward since the beginning of 2004.Graph tracks the percentage of those polled who believed the following since May 2003:That the U.S. intervention in Iraq was going very well or somewhat wellThat the national economy was getting better

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); TRENDS (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); TAX LAW (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%); TERRORISM (53%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) United States Economy; News and News Media; Politics and Government; Consumer Behavior; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) Daniel Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



493 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: After a Bit of Good News, Stocks Fall for the Week

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
After absorbing the good news -- that the Federal Reserve would hold interest rates at their current level -- Wall Street began to focus on the bad. Stocks fell for the week on concerns that the economy was slowing. 
 On Wednesday, stocks rose on the news that Fed policymakers had decided, for the second consecutive time, to hold their benchmark short-term rate at 5.25 percent.
By Thursday, though, the market had turned decidedly gloomy, and stocks fell further on Friday, on a report of a slowdown in home construction and manufacturing in the Philadelphia region.
 In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.59 percent from 4.79 percent the previous week. Prices, which move in the opposite direction, had their biggest gain in 17 months. 
 The price of oil continued its decline, to $60.55 a barrel of crude oil in New York, from $63.33 the previous week.
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 52.67 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 11,508.10. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.09 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,314.78. The Nasdaq composite index lost 16.66 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 2,218.93. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Wal-Mart StoresNYSE: WMTThe nation's largest retailer will begin selling nearly 300 generic prescription drugs at sharply reduced prices at some stores in an effort to take some customers away from the big pharmacy chains.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $48.29WEEK'S CHANGE: +0.15%EST. '06 P/E: 16.63YahooNNM: YHOOThe Internet search company said its third-quarter revenue would be at the lower end of its forecast range because of recent weakness in advertising for automobiles and financial services.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $25.52WEEK'S CHANGE: -12.96%EST. '06 P/E: 53.61Sharper ImageNNM: SHRPThe electronics retailer said it would restate some financial results for the last three years and miss a quarterly filing deadline because of changes in its accounting for stock options.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $9.40WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.99%EST. '06 P/E: --Morgan StanleyNYSE: MSThe Wall Street firm said its third-quarter profit surged to $1.85 billion, or $1.75 a share, on stronger investment banking and trading revenue. The results far exceeded the average analyst forecast of $1.37 a share.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $71.78WEEK'S CHANGE: +1.17%EST. '06 P/E: 11.27Premium Standard FarmsNNM: PORKThe pork producer agreed to be acquired by Smithfield Foods for $693 million in cash and stock. The deal valued the company at $21.35 a share, a premium of 20 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $19.30WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.86%EST. '06 P/E: 18.89CarnivalNYSE: CCLThe world's largest cruise ship operator said its fiscal third-quarter profit rose 4 percent as strength in its European and Alaska cruises offset a 28 percent increase in fuel costs and weakness in the Caribbean market.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $44.70WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.03%EST. '06 P/E: 16.47General MillsNYSE: GISThe maker of Cheerios, Yoplait yogurt and Pillsbury baked goods said its first-quarter profit rose 5.9 percent as strong sales helped the company overcome higher costs for raw materials like wheat, oats and sugar.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $55.24WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.31%EST. '06 P/E: 18.05NapsterNNM: NAPSShares in the online music service surged after it announced that it had hired UBS to explore a number of options, including a sale. The company said it had 500,000 subscribers and annual sales of $100 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $4.04WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.91%EST. '06 P/E: --(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (75%) Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



494 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Church as State

BYLINE: By ADRIAN WOOLDRIDGE. 
Adrian Wooldridge is the Washington bureau chief of The Economist and a co-author of ''The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America.''

 BODY:
THE THEOCONS
 Secular America Under Siege.
 By Damon Linker.
 272 pp. Doubleday. $26.
SO much for the power of prophecy. If the great prophets of the 19th and early 20th centuries agreed on anything, whether they were utopians like Marx or pessimists like Weber, it was that God was on his deathbed. Religion was a fading force; society was secularizing; and theology, once the queen of the sciences, was headed for irrelevance.
 Six years into the 21st century, fanatics are strapping on suicide belts and blowing themselves to smithereens in the name of God. The onward march of religion is not confined to Islam or the left-out bits of the globe. In much of the developing world, Christianity is doing a much better job of harvesting souls than Islam. In the only remaining superpower, the United States, hot religion is triumphing at the expense of cool religion (the mainline has long since passed to the sideline); and the religious revival is spreading from the masses to the intelligentsia. 
 ''The Theocons'' is a study of a group of Roman Catholic thinkers who, by their own lights at least, have been at the heart of this intellectual revival -- Michael Novak, George Weigel, Robert P. George and, most important of all, Richard John Neuhaus, a former Lutheran pastor who converted to Catholicism in 1990. Damon Linker clearly wants to capitalize on the infamy of the neocons -- a groupuscule that is recognized and reviled the world over -- and he has half a point. The theocons come from a different generation from Irving Kristol and company: they reached maturity in the 1960's rather than the 1950's. But the parallels are striking. 
 They started life as left-wing radicals: Neuhaus looked forward to a social conflagration, and Novak called for the destruction of ''the idol of inhibition, repression and shame.'' They broke with their radical past, dismissing the 1960's as what Neuhaus calls a ''slum of a decade,'' feuding with their former friends and moving smartly to the right. And they eventually found a comfortable home in the bosom of the conservative establishment. Novak is a cardinal in the papal college of neoconservatism, the American Enterprise Institute.
 Linker is a disillusioned theocon who cut his journalistic teeth working for Neuhaus's magazine, First Things. But his tone is admirably restrained, dispassionate and scholarly when it could so easily have been rank and recriminatory, and he uses his insider's knowledge to build up a detailed account of the movement. The result, for anybody who wants to understand the growing public role of American religion, is a book to reckon with. 
 Linker tells the story of how the theocons advanced on several fronts at once: establishing links with conservative foundations, forging an alliance with evangelicals and trying to redirect Roman Catholicism (Novak's ''Spirit of Democratic Capitalism'' remains the most ambitious attempt to reconcile Catholicism with Reagan-style capitalism). He argues that these maneuvers involved convolutions and compromises. As Americans, the theocons were treated with some suspicion in Rome; as Roman Catholics, they were treated with suspicion by both the evangelicals, who dominated the religious right, and the secular Jews, who wielded growing influence on the intellectual right. 
 In telling his tale Linker scores some good points against his former bedfellows, without abandoning his dispassionate tone. First Things, he reminds us, once ran an issue seriously discussing the case for resisting the American ''regime'' because of its support for abortion. He also convicts the theocons of cafeteria Catholicism -- as strict as you can get when it comes to contraception and euthanasia but willing to second guess the Vatican when it comes to war in the gulf. The best passages in the book deal with a schizophrenia that has them demonizing ''the people'' when they vote for Bill Clinton and sanctifying them when they vote for George W. Bush. ''This is the permanent theocon dynamic,'' Linker writes, ''hurtling wildly from theological affirmation of the country to theocratic denunciation and back again.''
 But Linker overestimates the importance of his subject matter: the theocons are pale imitations of the neocons and the evangelicals when it comes to exercising influence in the Earthly City. The evangelical movement is the engine of the Republican majority, after all. The bearer of the Republican standard has talked about Jesus changing his heart. (Neuhaus deeply dislikes the evangelicals' ''overly confident claims to being born again,'' as well as their ''forced happiness and joy'' and their ''awful music.'') 
 In the end, the theocons are just too eccentric to exercise the sort of influence on America that Linker ascribes to them. Again and again -- in their deference to papal authority, in their belief that American ideals and institutions derive from Catholic principles, in their willingness to sanction civil disobedience -- the theocons come across not as harbingers of a conservative revolution but as a rather eccentric intellectual clique. Secular America has more potent enemies to worry about than the Rev. Richard John Neuhaus and his colleagues.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Viktor Koen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); LITERATURE (63%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: Adrian Woolridge; Damon Linker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



495 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Aussie Brawler

BYLINE: By GEOFF DYER. 
Geoff Dyer's most recent book is ''The Ongoing Moment,'' a history of photography.

 BODY:
THINGS I DIDN'T KNOW
 A Memoir.
 By Robert Hughes.
 395 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $27.95.
Well, well, well,'' William Burroughs drawls on encountering Matt Dillon in ''Drugstore Cowboy.'' ''If it isn't bad Bobby Hughes.'' ''Things I Didn't Know'' is the story of how another Bobby Hughes -- or Robbie Huge, as Julian Schnabel nearly remembered him in his memoir -- made good. Almost. The final chapter sees him hiding out in his lair in London, inhaling all the hash and Scotch he can afford. It's 1969 and Hughes is 31. His marriage -- to a promiscuous, bisexual, acid-gobbling head case -- is a sink full of dirty dishes, most of them broken. He's done some television and written a couple of books on art, but the ambition that galvanized him into emigrating from Australia five years earlier has been thoroughly dissipated. And then, out of nowhere, he gets a call on a neighbor's phone (his own having been disconnected) asking if he'd like to have a bash at being the art critic for Time magazine in New York. 
 Bash is the operative word. The great venerators, Nietzsche reminds us, are also great despisers, and Hughes's reverence for great art is counterbalanced by limitless scorn for the bloated reputations of people like Schnabel and Jeff Koons, who came into their own during his watch. By the 1980's, inflation in the art market had made a nonsense of the kind of value 
 Hughes espoused. ''The idea of a present with continuous roots in history, where an artist's every action is judged by the unwearying tribunal of the dead,'' as he put it in his 1987 collection ''Nothing if Not Critical,'' was so wan that it fell to the critic to take up the cudgels on the dead's behalf. Expressing his loves and loathings with an Australian flair for articulate demotic, Hughes carved out a distinctive niche as a passionate reactionary, a radical conservative or, as he puts it here (charmingly embellished with obscenities), an ''elitist.'' Naturally this makes for a belligerently seductive on-screen persona, particularly in the two outstanding television series on art he wrote and presented, ''The Shock of the New'' and ''American Visions.'' His literary range, meanwhile, has extended to stirring books about Barcelona and the settlement of Australia as a penal colony. 
 Things, in other words, were looking pretty good until they suddenly got very bad when he totaled his car in a remote part of Australia in 1999. Hughes's memoir begins here, where everything nearly ended. Hughes smashes practically every bone in his body and gets prosecuted and sued to boot. From there we drift back to his early life in a prominent Australian family, his education at a Jesuit school, and a gradually emerging sense of potential vocation. Hughes soon discards what he considers the daft trappings of Catholicism but they leave in their wake a void that will eventually be filled by art. Writing from Australia, D. H. Lawrence expressed irritation with the way that every man considered himself ''a little pope of perfection.'' Invert this phrase -- pope of imperfection -- and you have an alternative title for this entertaining if ultimately unsatisfying memoir. 
 Hughes is contemptuous of the cult of unbridled ''self-revelation,'' which, having been worked up into a pseudoscience by Freud, blossomed in the London underground of the 1960's. The template for this ''secular parody'' of the Catholic sacrament is provided by Rousseau's ''Confessions,'' in which all the ''morally vile'' things the author had done were ''somehow redeemed'' by being admitted and described. What, then, is the purpose of this volume? Not so different, it turns out, from that of confession and analysis: ''to excavate and bring into the light things I had forgotten or repressed.'' Since this involves a lot of mum, dad and kidhood stuff, the near-fatal momentum of the book's opening is soon lost. 
 Things pick up with the post-university move from Sydney to Europe. Encouraged and helped by his mentor, the journalist Alan Moorehead, Hughes gets some freelance writing work in London but is happier in Italy -- and, later, Spain -- where he has epiphanic art experiences. These excursions enable Hughes to shift into the more familiar register of his art writing, but the unfolding personal narrative adds nothing to the discursive passages on Giovanni Pisano and others. John Berger (whom Hughes mentions as an influence) has often used experiences from his life to illuminate the paintings he is examining. Here, the interrogatory tension of Hughes's critical writing is reduced by being fed through a filter of autobiography. The mistake is generic. ''Writing art criticism is never easy,'' Hughes insists. Writing a memoir is ostensibly easier (you are automatically the leading authority in the field!) and, for this reason, infinitely more difficult. Falling into the memoirist's basic trap, Hughes reminisces about his discoveries; we do not experience them -- as we would if the same material were to be successfully deployed in fiction -- as they happen. 
 One gets the impression that, for Hughes, writing of this kind is like playing a game of squash without a back wall. He's got nothing to hit against. Not until the 1960's, at least. He can carp on about Australia being parochial and philistine but it's not until Jimi Hendrix gives him the clap (via his wife) and he encounters some of the prime movers of the acid underground (ditto) that he finds a surplus of irritations to kick against. Timothy Leary strikes him as ''a coarse, middle-aged Irish whiskey priest'' while Jerry Rubin is ''a semieducated liar with invincible self-esteem, the attention span of a flea, and a disgustingly inflated ego to match.'' Whether discussing Bernini (''that megaphone of 17th-century papal dogma'') or Andy Warhol (''the white mole of Union Square'') Hughes has always had a knack for the higher forms of name-calling. But there's a weary quality, here, even to this signature skill. In the case of Rubin, it's as if Hughes can't muster up the energy to personalize the final part of the triptych of jibes and makes do with that one-size-fits-all dig, ''disgustingly inflated ego.'' And while it's easy to accuse someone -- Picasso, in this instance -- of ''rhetorical poppycock,'' an ironic feature of this convenient weapon of rhetorical assault means that you cannot aim it at anyone without contemplating a bleeding hole in your own foot. 
 Here's the rub. It's fine being an elitist, but the credentials for occupying such a privileged seat have constantly to be justified and renewed. And this can't be done if you write flabby prose. Back in the early 1960's, Hughes concedes, he was ''not a fully functioning writer.'' And now that he's in his late 60's? The answer, I fear, is found in the same paragraph: ''Living for beauty was all very well, but it wasn't going to put any spinach on the plate, let alone any butter on the spinach. In two years I had laid up a lot of honey in my comb.'' 
 One comes back, inevitably, to the car crash, for it is there that the doubts about the author's prose first appear, doubts that mount when the raw material is not spectacular enough to compel attention more or less unaided. In the course of seven pages three people are referred to, respectively, as a ''dear friend,'' a ''dear, benign friend'' and ''my dear friend.'' O.K., he's got a lot of dear friends in not many pages, but under the circumstances, it's fair enough. But consider this as well: On Page 4, Hughes admits that he can recollect nothing about the crash itself. ''The slate is wiped clean, as by a damp rag.'' On Page 23 he tells us that he can recollect nothing about the accident: ''The slate is wiped clean, as by a damp rag.'' There is no ''Memento''-style point to be gained from the repetition. Memory of the first usage has simply been wiped clean, as by a damp rag. In Britain there is a specific crime called driving without due care and attention. Whether lapses like these -- symptoms of a care-and-attention deficit that runs throughout the book -- constitute a literary equivalent of this offense is open to debate. It depends, I suppose, on how much of an elitist you want to be.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Hughes in the late 1960's (Photograph courtesy of Robert Hughes)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); LITERATURE (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); CONSERVATISM (63%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Geoff Dyer; Robert Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



496 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 9-24-06: FREAKONOMICS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Selling Soap

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt. 
Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt are the authors of ''Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything.'' More information on the research behind this column is at www.freakonomics.com.

 BODY:
The Petri-Dish Screen Saver
 Leon Bender is a 68-year-old urologist in Los Angeles. Last year, during a South Seas cruise with his wife, Bender noticed something interesting: passengers who went ashore weren't allowed to reboard the ship until they had some Purell squirted on their hands. The crew even dispensed Purell to passengers lined up at the buffet tables. Was it possible, Bender wondered, that a cruise ship was more diligent about killing germs than his own hospital?
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, where Bender has been practicing for 37 years, is in fact an excellent hospital. But even excellent hospitals often pass along bacterial infections, thereby sickening or even killing the very people they aim to heal. In its 2000 report ''To Err Is Human,'' the Institute of Medicine estimated that anywhere from 44,000 to 98,000 Americans die each year because of hospital errors -- more deaths than from either motor-vehicle crashes or breast cancer -- and that one of the leading errors was the spread of bacterial infections. 
 While it is now well established that germs cause illness, this wasn't always known to be true. In 1847, the Hungarian physician Ignaz Semmelweis was working in a Viennese maternity hospital with two separate clinics. In one clinic, babies were delivered by physicians; in the other, by midwives. The mortality rate in the doctors' clinic was nearly triple the rate in the midwives' clinic. Why the huge discrepancy? The doctors, it turned out, often came to deliveries straight from the autopsy ward, promptly infecting mother and child with whatever germs their most recent cadaver happened to carry. Once Semmelweis had these doctors wash their hands with an antiseptic solution, the mortality rate plummeted.
 But Semmelweis's mandate, as crucial and obvious as it now seems, has proved devilishly hard to enforce. A multitude of medical studies have shown that hospital personnel wash or disinfect their hands in fewer than half the instances they should. And doctors are the worst offenders, more lax than either nurses or aides. 
 All of this was on Bender's mind when he got home from his cruise. As a former chief of staff at Cedars-Sinai, he felt inspired to help improve his colleagues' behavior. Just as important, the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations would soon be inspecting Cedars-Sinai, and it simply wouldn't do for a world-class hospital to get failing marks because its doctors didn't always wash their hands. 
 It may seem a mystery why doctors, of all people, practice poor hand hygiene. But as Bender huddled with the hospital's leadership, they identified a number of reasons. For starters, doctors are very busy. And a sink isn't always handy -- often it is situated far out of a doctor's work flow or is barricaded by equipment. Many hospitals, including Cedars-Sinai, had already introduced alcohol-based disinfectants like Purell as an alternative to regular hand-washing. But even with Purell dispensers mounted on a wall, the Cedars-Sinai doctors didn't always use them.
 There also seem to be psychological reasons for noncompliance. The first is what might be called a perception deficit. In one Australian medical study, doctors self-reported their hand-washing rate at 73 percent, whereas when these same doctors were observed, their actual rate was a paltry 9 percent. The second psychological reason, according to one Cedars-Sinai doctor, is arrogance. ''The ego can kick in after you have been in practice a while,'' explains Paul Silka, an emergency-department physician who is also the hospital's chief of staff. ''You say: 'Hey, I couldn't be carrying the bad bugs. It's the other hospital personnel.''' Furthermore, most of the doctors at Cedars-Sinai are free agents who work for themselves, not for the hospital, and many of them saw the looming Joint Commission review as a nuisance. Their incentives, in other words, were not quite aligned with the hospital's. 
 So the hospital needed to devise some kind of incentive scheme that would increase compliance without alienating its doctors. In the beginning, the administrators gently cajoled the doctors with e-mail, faxes and posters. But none of that seemed to work. (The hospital had enlisted a crew of nurses to surreptitiously report on the staff's hand-washing.) ''Then we started a campaign that really took the word to the physicians where they live, which is on the wards,'' Silka recalls. ''And, most importantly, in the physicians' parking lot, which in L.A. is a big deal.''
 For the next six weeks, Silka and roughly a dozen other senior personnel manned the parking-lot entrance, handing out bottles of Purell to the arriving doctors. They started a Hand Hygiene Safety Posse that roamed the wards and let it be known that this posse preferred using carrots to sticks: rather than searching for doctors who weren't compliant, they'd try to ''catch'' a doctor who was washing up, giving him a $10 Starbucks card as reward. You might think that the highest earners in a hospital wouldn't much care about a $10 incentive -- ''but none of them turned down the card,'' Silka says.
 When the nurse spies reported back the latest data, it was clear that the hospital's efforts were working -- but not nearly enough. Compliance had risen to about 80 percent from 65 percent, but the Joint Commission required 90 percent compliance.
 These results were delivered to the hospital's leadership by Rekha Murthy, the hospital's epidemiologist, during a meeting of the Chief of Staff Advisory Committee. The committee's roughly 20 members, mostly top doctors, were openly discouraged by Murthy's report. Then, after they finished their lunch, Murthy handed each of them an agar plate -- a sterile petri dish loaded with a spongy layer of agar. ''I would love to culture your hand,'' she told them. 
 They pressed their palms into the plates, and Murthy sent them to the lab to be cultured and photographed. The resulting images, Silka says, ''were disgusting and striking, with gobs of colonies of bacteria.''
 The administration then decided to harness the power of such a disgusting image. One photograph was made into a screen saver that haunted every computer in Cedars-Sinai. Whatever reasons the doctors may have had for not complying in the past, they vanished in the face of such vivid evidence. ''With people who have been in practice 25 or 30 or 40 years, it's hard to change their behavior,'' Leon Bender says. ''But when you present them with good data, they change their behavior very rapidly.'' Some forms of data, of course, are more compelling than others, and in this case an image was worth 1,000 statistical tables. Hand-hygiene compliance shot up to nearly 100 percent and, according to the hospital, it has pretty much remained there ever since.
 Cedars-Sinai's clever application of incentives is certainly encouraging to anyone who opposes the wanton proliferation of bacterial infections. But it also highlights how much effort can be required to solve a simple problem -- and, in this case, the problem is but one of many. Craig Feied, a physician and technologist in Washington who is designing a federally financed ''hospital of the future,'' says that hand hygiene, while important, will never be sufficient to stop the spread of bacteria. That's why he is working with a technology company that infuses hospital equipment with silver ion particles, which serve as an antimicrobial shield. Microbes can thrive on just about any surface in a hospital room, Feied notes, citing an old National Institutes of Health campaign to promote hand-washing in pediatric wards. The campaign used a stuffed teddy bear, called T. Bear, as a promotional giveaway. Kids and doctors alike apparently loved T. Bear -- but they weren't the only ones. When, after a week, a few dozen T. Bears were pulled from the wards to be cultured, every one of them was found to have acquired a host of new friends: Staphylococcus aureus, E. coli, Pseudomonas, Klebsiella.. . .


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Sahre and Loren Flaherty)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); BACTERIA (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HAND SANITIZERS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (88%); MIDWIVES (87%); UROLOGY (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); CRUISES (78%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (75%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); ACCREDITATION (70%); AUTOPSIES (67%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (65%); BREAST CANCER (54%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (53%) Medicine and Health; Sanitation; Doctors

ORGANIZATION: CEDARS-SINAI MEDICAL CENTER (83%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (56%) Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (Los Angles)

PERSON: Stephen J Dubner; Steven D (Prof) Levitt

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



497 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: The Other Side Of Lower Oil Prices

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''The Good News About Oil Prices Is the Bad News'' (On the Contrary, Sept. 17), on why higher oil prices are good for the economy and the planet: 
 The column said that ''the burden of higher oil prices, unfortunately, will fall most heavily on the world's poor.'' But this is not necessarily so.
The revenue from higher prices for oil (and coal and natural gas) can be recycled to the public via an environmental trust fund. Because individuals would pay into the fund in proportion to their consumption of fossil fuels, the rich would pay more than the poor. If the fund then paid equal dividends to every woman, man and child -- based on the principle that all have equal ''ownership'' rights to the atmosphere's capacity to recycle carbon emissions -- the poor would come out ahead, getting more in dividend checks than they pay in higher fuel prices. 

James K. Boyce
Amherst, Mass., Sept. 17

The writer is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts.

To the Editor:
 Yes, cheaper oil is ultimately bad news. So, yes, load it with taxes -- European style -- and use the revenue bonus for alternative-fuel research. Unfortunately, President Bush would probably use it to lower top tax rates again.

Horace Hone
Palm Coast, Fla., Sept. 18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); BIOFUELS (74%); COAL PRICES (73%); WRITERS (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); DIVIDENDS (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Taxation

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%)

PERSON: James K Boyce; Horace Hone

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



498 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: ARMCHAIR M.B.A.; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: The Rebirth Of Venture Capitalism

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN

 BODY:
VENTURE capitalists, who faded from the limelight after the bursting of the dot-com bubble, have been making a comeback with a global focus, says Bob Higgins, founder and managing general partner of Highland Capital Partners, a venture capital firm in Lexington, Mass., and a senior lecturer at the Harvard Business School. Here are excerpts from a conversation:

Q. What trends do you foresee in venture capital investing?

A. In the near term, Silicon Valley and conventional technology sectors, the Internet and biotech, will be where the bulk of the dollars will go. But there's definitely a globalization occurring. And there is movement into new sectors. And within information technology and within life sciences, there is a shift in what kinds of companies are getting funded and their locations.

Q. Where are venture capitalists going?

A. We're seeing outsourcing companies not just in India or China, but also in Eastern Europe. We're seeing interesting companies in medical technology starting in Israel and Ireland. There was a time when if you knew what was going on in Silicon Valley and Boston, you were pretty far down the road of understanding the business. That's no longer possible. 
I just came back from a trip to China and saw an enormous number of companies and venture capitalists. The change in the past five years in China is overwhelming. In the world of early-stage companies, an enormous amount is happening. 

Q. Can the Chinese master the art of venture capital, which requires risk-taking, a clear legal system and protection of intellectual property?

A. The jury is still out on a lot of those factors. One of the things I noticed was how young the entrepreneurs are and how few of them have any mentorship. The reason is that there is no mentorship class. The people who would be the board members in their 50's and 60's lived through the Cultural Revolution. They were not starting up companies. They were sent down to the countryside to work on communes.
 What's really driving venture capital are the returnees, the Chinese who came over here and were educated. They're going back and then they're working with local Chinese in starting companies. They're bringing knowledge of American and European practices and also have financial relationships with either venture capitalists or investment banks.

Q. How does India compare with China, as far as venture capital goes?

A. Their rule of law is more understandable. It's the British tradition. It's easier to do business in some ways. The good and the bad news is that there are large families who have been doing entrepreneurial things for centuries. I was having dinner with a maharajah who told me that his family business has been in existence for 74 generations. As members of these families spin out to start businesses, they get the mentorship, the financing and the assistance that is necessary.
 Independently of that, you have companies starting up in business process outsourcing. Infosys is a great example. Other companies in pharmaceuticals are doing development work and working in the generics market. But both sectors are moving toward proprietary technology.

Q. In the United States, what kind of technologies are being financed?

A. Health care had the biggest growth of any sector in the first half of the year. And within health care, biopharma has been the biggest growth sector. That involves using biotechnology innovation to create pharmaceutical products. So these are drugs that humans will take.
 The other related sector that's really taking off is devices. There's been a lot of press about Boston Scientific and Johnson & Johnson in the stent market. Everybody knows somebody who has had a stent implanted. The stent market is growing incredibly rapidly. The stents are now covered with a drug. The hot new word is ''convergence'' of drugs and devices, meaning actually having a device that can be implanted in the human body but is married to a drug in some fashion. 

Q. Geographically, aside from Silicon Valley, where is this activity happening?

A. Eli Lilly, sitting in Indianapolis, decided to buy some medical device companies back in the 1990's, most of them in Silicon Valley. These companies were merged together and spun out and became Guidant. So although Guidant was headquartered in Silicon Valley, it was a company in Indianapolis that made the acquisitions to make it happen. Much of Boston Scientific's growth has come through acquisitions, and those companies have been spread around the country.
 Another great example, in the device world, would be companies such as St. Jude's or Medtronic, located in Minnesota.

Q. Have private equity and hedge funds stolen the thunder from venture capitalists?

A. The lines between what's venture capital and what's private equity and what's a hedge fund are blurring. Some of the hedge funds are investing in private companies and even in fairly young private companies. I actually think that venture capitalists are farmers. We spend a lot of time starting companies and growing companies and then we take them to harvest. That's the I.P.O. I think it's an extremely good time to be planting. We're fairly optimistic. We're starting companies and building companies, and we're confident the harvest will be there.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sean Kelly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (93%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); STARTUPS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); OUTSOURCING (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%) Venture Capital; Biographical Information

COMPANY: HIGHLAND CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Highland Capital Partners

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: Bob Higgins; William J Holstein

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); EUROPE (56%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); ISRAEL (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



499 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: House Available For $50,000 (Monthly, That Is)

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND

 BODY:
JACK COHEN, a developer in suburban New York, is having a hard time selling a house that he built in Purchase and put on the market for $3.75 million. So last year he leased it to a New York Knicks basketball player for $17,000 a month.
 Sheldon Dubrow, who is also a builder, is not getting any bites on a $1.99 million home he owns in Brookline, Mass. Now he's hoping that he can rent it for $8,500 a month.
As housing sales soften in some areas, rentals are beginning to look good to sellers who do not want to cut prices. Renting is also becoming more attractive to potential buyers who would rather wait and see what direction the market is going to take.
 ''There's increased supply and increased demand,'' said John Pfeiffer, a senior manager of Associates for International Research Inc., which handles executive relocation for Fortune 500 companies. 
 A majority of the rental market nationwide is under $6,000 a month, but a handful of cities offer a fair number of rental properties at $8,000 and above -- like Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York, Boston, Honolulu, Las Vegas, Miami and Washington, and their environs. 
 Owners who have properties that might have listed for $1.5 million a year ago may now have to lower the asking price to $1.1 million to make a sale, and so they rent instead. 
 ''People are not willing to take the hit,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said.
 Real estate brokers estimate that a $1 million home will rent for $5,000 to $7,000 a month, depending on size, condition and location.
 So, who pays this kind of rent? 
 It might be someone who has recently moved into an area and is testing out a neighborhood. ''Some of these people who rent are the ones who didn't buy,'' said Nancy McCreary, manager of the Hammond Rental Group in Boston. ''Maybe because it wasn't their perfect choice, or the house was in the high $1 or $2 millions and with the increase in interest rates they said, 'I'm going to wait and see what happens.' '' 
 Although the rents may seem exorbitant, those people do avoid a huge down payment, and aren't necessarily paying much more than monthly mortgage payments of, say, $10,000, on a $2 million-plus home.
 Other high-end renters are diplomats and government officials, as well as executives relocating internationally or domestically, often for a stint of three to five years. 
 Many executives are given housing allowances, or ''contributions,'' as they are more frequently called these days, which means the company will pick up part of the rent when they relocate.
 Other people who might be willing to spend thousands of dollars a month for rent are those who are having expensive renovations done on their homes and need a temporary place to stay. And, of course, there are always the celebrities, along with a support crew of film directors, producers and others.
 ''The high-end lease market has always been extremely active in L.A.,'' said Jan Eric Horn, the founder and executive director of the architectural division of Coldwell Banker in Beverly Hills, Calif. ''There are so many people brought in by the entertainment industry for 10, 11, 12 months.''
 Mr. Horn said he had noticed lately that ''while the sales market has slowed, the demand for leases has gotten higher,'' which sometimes creates bidding wars. 
 A house in the west side of Los Angeles that was recently listed for rent at $30,000 a month is now being leased for $50,000, because several people were interested in it. The house -- just under 7,000 square feet with a pool and horse stables -- went to a businessman who paid the entire one-year lease up front, Mr. Horn said.
 ''A lot of leases are coming onto the market now,'' he said. ''People are saying, 'If I sell now, I'll take a hit. Why do that? Let me put it on the market and lease and get top dollar.' '' 
 Richard Kramer, a writer and producer who has worked on television shows like ''Thirtysomething'' and ''My So-Called Life,'' is tempted to rent out his West Hollywood home and move to another state or country for a while. ''I've fallen in love with my house; I've invested so much of myself in it, you can't recreate that,'' he said. ''I can't imagine ever not having this house, but I would like to live somewhere else.''
 He bought his three-bedroom, 1920's house 15 years ago for $770,000 in an ''insanely appreciating neighborhood,'' he said, and hopes to rent it out for $20,000 a month, which he says would be several times his mortgage.
 ''That might be high,'' he said, ''but I'd like to get it.''
 Homeowners with beach property, especially on one of the rare private beaches in Los Angeles, can almost name their price.
 Alan Mark, a real estate broker from Los Angeles, says he rents his 1,800-square-foot ''cottage,'' which he estimates is worth $12 million, for $30,000 to $50,000 a month, depending on the length of the lease and the season.
 His renters have included people like David Margulies, chief executive of the New Pacific Realty Corporation, who leased the house over the summer. Many renters work less than an hour away in Beverly Hills, Century City or Hollywood but are seeking a beach getaway. 
 ''I'm very active -- I wanted a place where I could scuba dive, swim and surf,'' Mr. Margulies said. ''You can sit at the window and watch dolphins jump out of the water. I know this will sound astounding, but to be candid, I think it's a bargain.''
 Las Vegas, while not on the scale of Los Angeles, has a number of homes that rent for $20,000 to $30,000 a month that also cater to celebrities, including those who are the headlining acts at nearby hotels.
 ''We have 20 or so villas that fit that category,'' said Jack Woodcock, the founder of Prudential Americana Group Realtors in Las Vegas. ''In the past some of the entertainers would have stayed in hotels because we didn't have the facilities, but now they prefer the houses.''
 There have always been some high-end rental homes available for reclusive celebrities, gamblers and top-level corporate executives, but it was only in the last seven or eight years that they have become more prominent as ''security has become more of an issue,'' Mr. Woodcock said. 
 Many of these rentals are clustered around Lake Las Vegas, an upscale development a short limousine ride from the Las Vegas Strip, as well as in golf course resorts in nearby areas, he said. 
 ''There's not a lot of publicity about these places,'' Mr. Woodcock said. ''They're generally places people have moved out of and hold on to as an investment.''
 Manhattan can also bring very high rents. Paying $25,000 a month for a four-bedroom prewar town house on the Upper East or West Side is fairly typical, said Susan Greenfield, a vice president of Brown Harris Stevens in Manhattan. ''I have seen a lot of empty-nesters selling homes in the suburbs and moving into the city,'' she said. ''They're not opting to buy right away and they test the market to see if they like the neighborhood.''
 Another rental scenario is an affluent family in the midst of a divorce and ''the man needs to move out of his very high-end home,'' Ms. Greenfield said, but ''needs to be close to the children.''
 While the high-end rental market may not shift much in Manhattan, give or take a few thousand dollars, brokers say the pricey rental markets in the outlying New York, New Jersey and Connecticut towns are more volatile.
 ''Over the last four months, I'm seeing two things,'' said Alix Sara Prince, vice president of Sotheby's International Realty in Rye, N.Y. ''Those who want to wait out and rent until the market recovers, or those who are strapped because they have to leave town and put their house up for rent.'' 
 Ms. Prince says she has 13 homes available for rent at $11,000 to $35,000 a month in the three towns she serves in southern Westchester County, almost twice as much in that price range as last year. Quite a few rentals, she said, are sitting around unrented. 
 Ms. McCreary, the Boston real estate manager, who specializes in rentals in Boston and its suburbs, said she, too, had an unusually large stock. ''I'm getting a lot of $6,000 to $10,000 rental inventory this fall, which is an odd phenomenon,'' she said. ''Usually the busiest activity is in the late spring.''
 But even with the greater supply, she added, ''we've done quite well'' in the last 18 months. 
 Many of the rentals are from people who want to sell, she said. Some are planning to rent for a few years, while others just intend to lease their homes for a few months before listing their property for sale next spring, she said. 
 Mr. Dubrow, the builder with a home in Brookline, put his 4,500-square-foot house on the market almost a year ago. He has lowered the price once, but still, buyers are not pouring in. ''Some people from California with one child looked at it and thought it was too small,'' he said.
 In June, when his real estate agent ''talked to me about renting, I wasn't too excited,'' Mr. Dubrow said.
 But his attitude has changed. ''Now, $8,500 will cover my nut,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: TEMPORARY QUARTERS -- As home sales soften in many parts of the country, more high-end properties that would otherwise have been offered for sale are being rented, like these houses in Brookline, Mass., above right, and Purchase, N.Y., right. This beach house in Malibu, Calif., above left and left, is also for rent. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)
(Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)
(Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); SALES & SELLING (73%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Renting and Leasing; Housing

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%)

PERSON: Alina Tugend

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (87%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (87%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Las Vegas (Nev); Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



500 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: It Seemed Like A Good Bet At The Time

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
FOR Inga Rogers, the party ends in 38 days.
 On Nov. 1, the adjustable-rate mortgage, or ARM, she took out three years ago at the spectacular rate of 3.875 percent will get considerably more expensive. Ms. Rogers, a single mother of two living in a three-bedroom ranch in suburban Boston, faces a rate increase of three percentage points, raising her monthly house payment by $300, to $1,419, and putting her at a financial crossroads.
Her choices: keep the loan and run the risk of future increases, or ditch her adjustable mortgage in favor of a more stable loan with a higher monthly payment.
 Ms. Rogers, a hairstylist working 32 hours a week, will have to work more in either case. The 6.85 percent 30-year fixed-rate loan she is considering would cost $100 a month more than her higher ARM payment, but it would at least protect her from future increases that could go far higher. 
 ''I still might not be able to make the extra money, because with my job I don't have a set income,'' she said. ''So I have an adjustable salary, too. My whole life is a roller coaster.''
 As housing prices shot up in recent years, ARM's gave borrowers a way to jump into the market while paying only a fraction of the interest that traditional mortgages require, at least for the first few years. But the risk they took -- that rates would not rise too steeply when the loans entered their adjustable period -- now haunts millions of borrowers, who have seen their monthly payments skyrocket. Now, if they can afford it, they are moving to 30-year fixed loans or ARM's that remain at the same rate for at least seven years.
 ARM's have come in and out of vogue, but their latest surge began about five years ago, when the Federal Reserve Board started cutting key short-term interest rates in an effort to stimulate the economy. But now that the Fed's focus is on reining in inflation, rates have risen steadily.
 The increases have caught many homeowners in a ''can't pay, can't sell, can't refinance'' vise, in which their ARM payments are outpacing their incomes and their homes have not appreciated enough to help cover the cost of a refinanced mortgage or to allow them to sell and walk away. For them, foreclosure looms. 
 But for most ARM borrowers whose house values rose sharply in recent years, there is ample fiscal room to switch to a loan with higher interest but lower angst. ''Instead of facing significant payment shock, a lot of people are looking to refinance because they're fearful of further increases,'' said Craig Focardi, an analyst with TowerGroup, a financial-services consultancy in Needham, Mass.
 Some borrowers are simply taking out new ARM's, which carry a fixed rate for three years or less. ''But some of them are thinking, 'Do I really want to double-down?' '' Mr. Focardi said.
 He said a borrower who took out a three-year ARM in August 2003 could expect initial interest rates of about 4.6 percent. On a $300,000 loan, the monthly payment was $1,610. That rate would rise this year to about 6.6 percent, leaving the borrower with a $327-a-month increase, plus the possibility of future annual increases (or decreases) of as much as two percentage points. 
 Nearly 37 percent of all loans taken out in a single week in late March 2005 were ARM's, roughly 10 percentage points higher than the same period a year earlier and 23 percentage points higher than the same period in 2003, the Mortgage Bankers Association says. The loans were most heavily concentrated on the East and West Coasts, economists said, where housing prices spiked more sharply. 
 There is no consensus on how many of those loans are nearing the so-called reset point, when rates are adjusted. Some economists estimate that next year anywhere from $162 billion to $1 trillion worth of adjustable-rate mortgages will be reset. Douglas Duncan, the chief economist of the mortgage bankers' group, said: ''The truth is probably somewhere in the middle of those estimates, but whatever the number, we've seen that consumers are already acting.''
 And what they're doing is getting out of those ARM's. Refinancing activity is back up to nearly 44 percent of all loans, after slumping to about 33 percent in May, the lowest point since June 2004, according to the mortgage bankers' group. As of early September, slightly more than 25 percent of all loans were adjustable, the lowest level since October 2003. The rest are fixed-rate mortgages; the interest rate for 30-year fixed-rate loans now averages 6.36 percent. 
 According to lenders and mortgage brokers, borrowers who are staying with ARM's are divided into three groups: those for whom the possibility of higher interest rates is not a concern; those who know they will not be staying in their homes for long; and those who simply cannot afford higher monthly payments -- people who are essentially at the mercy of the market. 
 In San Francisco, Marc Geshekter, a broker with Residential Pacific Mortgage, said of his ARM customers: ''A lot of them are just taking out a new five-year ARM at 6 or 6.25 percent rather than taking a chance on the current loan adjusting upward. Maybe they had a three-year ARM before, so they're opting for a slightly longer-term loan because they're wishing they had a few extra years now.''
 As in other pricey real estate markets, ARM's are popular in New York. Steven Schnall, the president of the New York Mortgage Company, said ARM's represented 57 percent of its loans in New York, compared with 48 percent nationally. 
 New York, he said, has a higher percentage of affluent homeowners who are more mobile and therefore less likely to need a long-term mortgage. ''And they're more able to afford the risks associated with ARM's,'' he said.
 Affluent they may be, but many New York borrowers are unwilling to accept sharp mortgage increases. Michael D. Cohen, a partner in Phillips Nizer, a New York law firm, will soon refinance the ARM on his five-bedroom apartment on Park Avenue. The new ARM has a 7 percent rate cap for 10 years. ''I've been receiving the benefits of low rates for years,'' he said. ''But you have to take the bad with the good.''
 Others are more desperate. Stephen Parnell, the chief executive of the Lynxbanc Mortgage Corporation in Boca Raton, Fla., said some of his clients had taken out so-called ''option ARM's,'' wherein they can choose to pay less than the nominal interest rate on the loan, so the debt actually grows until it reaches a limit. After that, or after a certain period of time, the interest rate is locked in, often at a steeply higher level. 
 ''Some people are taking that short-relief pain pill in a last-ditch effort to stay in the house,'' Mr. Parnell said. ''Their hope is that the real estate market in the next two to three years will be kinder to them.''
 Some others are in more desperate situations. Mr. Parnell used an example of buyers who had used ARM's to buy homes in new developments last year, only to be facing payments they cannot afford. They would sell their houses to rid themselves of the loan, but the builders in those developments are selling off the last of their new homes for much less than what buyers paid last year, leaving the buyers with ARM's little choice but to drop their resale prices sharply to compete.
 One such owner, who requested anonymity rather than risk the embarrassment of exposing a financial blunder, bought a house in Port St. Lucie, Fla., as an investment in April of last year and financed the $410,000 purchase with an ARM, with an introductory rate of nearly 7 percent. The loan was an afterthought, since he expected to sell the house almost immediately for a profit. He didn't, and now the developer recently sold a similar house in the neighborhood for $325,000. 
 ''I just didn't know what I was doing, and I shouldn't have done it,'' said the man, who does not have enough equity in the house to refinance and who will run out of money to pay the mortgage in 10 months. ''Maybe the Lord will send a miracle.''
 The more precariously positioned ARM borrowers are very much on the minds of economists, some of whom fear that masses of consumers will not be able to afford the new higher payments, setting off a recession. According to Christopher Cagan, an analyst with First American Real Estate Solutions, a housing consultancy in Santa Ana, Calif., about 19 percent of the 7.7 million ARM's taken out in 2004 and 2005 are at risk of defaulting. 
 But many more will escape these loans unscathed, Mr. Cagan said. Melinda Johnson, a dietitian who lives in the Phoenix suburb of Chandler with her husband and two children, recently refinanced to a 30-year fixed loan, six months after the rate on her ARM jumped to 5.85 percent from 3.85 percent.
 ''That was fun,'' Ms. Johnson said, referring to the initial interest rate, which ran for three years. ''But if the market climbed and we still had the loan, we could be at 9.85 percent in another two years.''
 Ms. Johnson and her husband plan to own their home for the long term, so a 30-year fixed loan makes more sense, she said. But the $4,500 the couple spent on the refinancing probably erased most of the interest-rate savings from the ARM, she said. 
 ''I'd do it again in the right circumstances,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''If rates are low and it's looking like the start of a great market, we might take that gamble.''
 Ms. Rogers, of Stoughton, Mass., outside Boston, said she would give herself a little more time before deciding whether she could stomach the uncertainty of her mortgage. Others, like Richard and Sandra Strauss of Oakton, Va., are done with the drama. 
 About five years ago, the couple, who have lived in the same house for 22 years, took out an adjustable-rate mortgage with an introductory rate of 1.95 percent. Since then, the rate has climbed 13 times, to about 7.5 percent in August. They could have saved money simply getting a new adjustable-rate loan, but instead they opted for a 30-year fixed loan, cutting about one percentage point off the interest rate and saving hundreds on their previous monthly payment.
 ''We don't want to track rates regularly,'' Ms. Strauss said. ''And the rates on fixed mortgages are fairly decent.''
 Mr. Strauss put it more bluntly. ''We're done with ARM's,'' he said. ''We don't want any more surprises.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article today on the cover of Real Estate on adjustable-rate mortgages refers imprecisely in some copies to the current average interest rate for fixed-rate mortgages. It is 6.36 percent for 30-year fixed-rate loans, not for all fixed-rate loans.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ONCE BITTEN, TWICE SHY -- Richard and Sandra Strauss, above, shown with their daughter Stephanie at their house in Oakton, Va., opted for a fixed-rate loan instead of another adjustable-rate mortgage. Inga Rogers, left, of Stoughton, Mass., is wrestling with that same decision. (Photo by Steve Ruark for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. 10)Drawing (Illustration by Ross MacDonald)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); INFLATION (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%); SINGLE PARENTS (57%) Housing; Mortgages; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Defaulting; Housing

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



501 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Bitter Disagreement Over School Boards

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 As an alumnus of Lawrence High School and a former resident of Cedarhurst, I was saddened to read ''At Odds Over Schools'' (Sept. 17). That community always had families of every religion, race, ethnic and economic status living in harmony. 
The children went to school, played sports and participated in school activities together, without anything more than the normal differences you would find in any activity. It was a great learning experience for all of us about getting along with people who were different from yourself.
 Apparently the Orthodox community in Lawrence thinks its situation with regard to private school tuition and public school taxes is unique. It isn't. People who willingly pay school taxes support the system because it is good for the children and the community, and a good school system keeps real estate values strong. 
 In my opinion, the example being shown to the children of Lawrence is very damaging, and will have long-term negative effects. 

Jay B. Boyle
Westhampton Beach, N.Y.

To the Editor:
 I've been a resident of School District 15 for 25 years. I have paid school taxes that have faithfully increased each year. The school board, under its previous leadership, squandered funds and let surpluses disappear without making repairs on school buildings or addressing problems in education -- for example, why so many of their students were flunking out.
 Taxation without representation -- in Lawrence, N.Y., that's what was going on. It was time for a change. I am happy about the new school board and its commitment to fiscal responsibility and accountability for all the students of the district. 
 This school board didn't take over. It was elected by a majority. Parents are scapegoating one group, when it was their own failure to hold the previous board accountable to its duties that is the real cause of the decline in the district's performance.

Gail Siskind
Woodmere, N.Y.

To the Editor:
 As someone who spends $15,000 a year to send my children to private school, I admittedly may be doing passive harm to the public school system by depriving my community of two worthy students. But the active role the Orthodox in Lawrence, N.Y., are taking is a cynical attempt to employ a perverted justice.
 Public schooling is a right of every American. How dare those who forfeit its services try to manipulate its budget. May public school parents join the board of the Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway and hold sway over how that school spends its money?

Michael Schreiber
Holliswood, Queens

To the Editor:
 There is only one reasonable cure for the school board disputes in Lawrence, N.Y., and other places, with Orthodox Jews or other religious sects and denominations who are in the majority: the county or the state should legislate that one of the requisites for running for a seat on the board is to have a child in the public schools!

B. Marc Mogil
Great Neck, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); BOARD CHANGES (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (65%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (53%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Jews; Education and Schools

PERSON: Jay B Boyle; Gail siskind; Michael Schreiber; B Marc Mogil

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Lawrence (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



502 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Closing Of A Nation

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
It's an elementary principle of child psychology: safety leads to exploration. The child who feels securely loved at home will venture out and try new things. The child who is insecure will be more passive and cling to what is known.
 What's true of children is true of adults, and in Iraq we now have a case study in human insecurity. The people of Iraq have endured decades of dictatorship, war, insurgency and civil strife, and the psychological costs have been ruinous. Iraq is the most xenophobic, sexist and reactionary society on earth. 
 Researchers from the invaluable World Values Survey have interviewed over 2,300 adults from all over Iraq. The results have just been published by Ronald Inglehart, Mansoor Moaddel and Mark Tessler in the journal Perspectives on Politics.
 Inglehart, Moaddel and Tessler describe a people who, buffeted by violence, have withdrawn into mere survival mode. They are suspicious of outsiders and intolerant toward weak groups, and they cling fiercely to what is familiar and traditional.
 The researchers asked the Iraqis if they would mind living next door to foreigners. In most societies, there is a small minority who say they would mind. Nine percent of Americans say they would mind, and in the median country internationally about 16 percent say they would mind. Ninety percent of the Iraqi Arab respondents rejected foreigners as neighbors.
 As Inglehart, Moaddel and Tessler write, Iraqis ''reject foreigners to a degree that is virtually unknown in other societies throughout the world, including more than a dozen predominantly Islamic countries.''
 Iraqi Arabs almost universally reject Americans, Britons and the French, and roughly 60 percent reject Iranians, Kuwaitis and Jordanians, the groups they are least hostile to. 
 Iraqis also viscerally resist social reform and deviation from the traditional ways of doing things. For example, 93 percent of Arab Iraqis said men made better leaders than women, the highest proportion of any group in the world.
 Iraqi Arabs were asked which values they would like to instill in their children. They emphasized ''obedience'' and ''religious faith'' more than any of the 80 other societies that have been studied. They were less likely to try to instill ''independence'' in their children than people in 74 of the study's 80 societies.
 Meanwhile, Iraqis cling fiercely to their primal identities. Roughly 86 percent of the Arab Iraqis said they were very proud to be Iraqi, and the Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds were very likely to trust members of their own community. Such in-group solidarity is almost without precedent.
 Iraqi Kurds stood apart from the world in all these various measures, but Iraqi Arabs stood apart even more. This suggests that Saddam's tyranny had already had a corrosive effect on Iraqi society by 1991, when the Kurds were effectively liberated, but over the past 15 years, things have become much worse. It's impossible to tell how much of the trauma has been caused since the American invasion.
 We do know, however, that American policy makers were surprised to learn how religious Iraqi society had become during the 1990's. (Iraqi exiles had not prepared them for this.) And we also know this climate of opinion works against the Iraqi leaders as they try to create a functioning nation. 
 In essence, Iraqis are like turtles trying to pull into their shells, but the big tasks now require non-shell behavior. They require getting Shiites and Sunnis to trust each other enough to negotiate a settlement on sharing oil revenue. They require getting Shiite policemen to crack down on their own, and on Moktada al-Sadr's Shiite militia. 
 The larger lesson, as we think about future efforts to reform the Middle East and combat extremism, is that the Chinese model probably works best. That is, it's best to champion economic reform before political reform. 
 We know from a wealth of historical experience that when people see their standard of living rise, they reject the reactionary survival mentality and they become more open to others and to change. If people already see their lives improving materially, they will be more likely to keep their cool as their political institutions are reinvented.
 In the age of terror, statesmanship means knowing how to create a sense of security so you can lead people on a voyage of reform. Most of all, it means that if you're going to do nation-building, you have to understand the values of the people you're going to build a nation with. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); CASE STUDIES (73%); RELIGION (64%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



503 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: With Prices Falling, Gas May Lose Its Electoral Punch

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
AMERICA, the cost of filling up your Hummer just got $16 cheaper. 
 The price for a gallon of regular gasoline now averages just under $2.50 nationwide, according to the Energy Information Administration. While that is not exactly cheap, it beats the $3-plus per gallon seen as recently as last month. (For those keeping score at home, the Hummer H2 has a 32-gallon tank.)
So what does this mean for the midterm elections? 
 Democrats have been beating the oil drum for months, coupling rising gas prices with oil companies reaping record profits and big tax breaks. In commercials from the Democratic Senate Campaign Committee, Representative Sherrod Brown, a Democrat running for Senate from Ohio, is described as having ''fought for tax cuts for the middle class, not for oil companies,'' while a different ad criticizes Senator Jon Kyl, an Arizona Republican, saying he ''voted oil companies billions in special tax breaks.'' Yet another ad from the committee, for the Senate race in Missouri, asserts that the Republican incumbent, Jim Talent, ''has voted to give the oil and gas companies billions,'' while his Democratic opponent, Claire McCaskill, would instead invest more federal money in alternative fuels. 
 Voters can expect this tack to continue, despite the falling prices. 
 ''We still see it as a strong issue for two reasons,'' said Charles Schumer, the New York Democrat who runs the Senate campaign committee. ''First, just about everybody believes they're going to go back up again, and second, it's an example, one of many, of the administration and the Republican Senate not having a policy that makes people's lives better.''
 Republicans, on the other hand, believe the sting of this argument is waning.
 ''Virtually every newspaper in America is reporting on their front page that gas prices are plummeting,'' said Ed Patru, a spokesman for the National Republican Campaign Committee. ''That denies Democrats another issue that they're trying to use to nationalize the election.''
 Poll numbers show that high gas prices are receding as an issue. Back in May, 14 percent of those surveyed by the Pew Research Center said energy prices were the nation's most important problem, ahead of terrorism and Iraq, up from 5 percent in March. This month, only 7 percent gave energy prices top billing. Gallup has had similar findings.
 ''It's certainly good for the Republicans,'' said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center. On the other hand, he added, prices have been high for a long time, ''and they've taken a toll on people's pocketbooks and people's sense of well-being.''
 Frank Newport, editor in chief of the Gallup Poll, said ''it's common sense that if the price of gas continues to go down, it's more favorable to the party in power.''
 ''There aren't many other economic measures that are so readily available,'' he said, adding, ''you see those big numerals as you drive down the street.'' 
 But recent Gallup numbers have also shown that the decrease in gas prices has not translated into general optimism about the economy. And there is no shortage of skeptics who doubt that only market forces are at work. A USA Today/Gallup poll conducted last weekend found that 42 percent of the roughly 1,000 adults surveyed nationwide said they believed the Bush administration had ''deliberately manipulated the price of gasoline so that it would decrease before this fall's elections.'' 
 Tangible reasons cited for the dip in prices include the end of the Israeli-Hezbollah war, which had raised tensions across the Middle East. Also, forecasts of a severe hurricane season that could disrupt oil supplies from the Gulf of Mexico have not, so far, panned out.
 Even with the summer's increases, gas prices still have not topped their inflation-adjusted peaks from the early 1980's. And the long gas lines of the 1973 oil embargo left more of a mark on the national psyche. But the recent high prices have lined the pockets of nations like Iran and helped undercut what's left of the domestic auto industry, which built much of its business around inexpensive gasoline.
 How long will prices keep falling? At least for a few more weeks, predicted Michael Burdette, the Energy Information Administration's senior oil analyst, because crude prices are dropping and retail prices have not fully caught up.
 ''We probably have another 20 to 25 cents in retail declines we would expect to see over the next few weeks,'' he said. ''On the flip side, there are some people out there calling for retail prices way under $2 a gallon. We just don't expect to see that.''
 How about a forecast for Election Day? 
 ''No,'' he said, ''I'm not going to go there.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Erik Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); TERRORISM (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (84%)

PERSON: CLAIRE MCCASKILL (57%); JON KYL (57%); SHERROD BROWN (57%); CHARLES SCHUMER (55%) Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



504 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Teaching 101: First, Do the Math

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Teaching Math, Singapore Style'' (editorial, Sept. 18):
 I wholeheartedly agree with your assertion that more math and science specialists need to be teaching America's students. But as a graduating engineering student, I have two choices: Work in the private sector for an average starting salary of $55,000, or teach math and science in a public school, making far less money and settling for a lower standard of living.
 Our public school system needs to act like the business it is, and produce more of the well-educated math and science graduates whom America's economy sorely needs. The answer is to attract qualified math and science teachers by making it worth their while.

Roger Cost
New York, Sept. 19, 2006

To the Editor: 
 I found your editorial demeaning to the curricular challenges regularly faced by mathematics teachers in this country. I present the following for you to consider:
 Forty-nine of our 50 states have developed state curricular frameworks. Most of these have been influenced by the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics' ''Curriculum and Evaluation Standards'' (1989), or the more recent ''Principles and Standards for School Mathematics'' (2000). Close to 30 of the states have revised their curricular frameworks since 2003.
 What some refer to as basic skills (for example, multiplication facts, and fluency with the addition, subtraction, multiplication and division of whole numbers) have always been a fundamental core of elementary school mathematics. Always. 
 But we want more. We want children to understand the mathematics they are learning and we want them to be able to solve problems, which is, in the long run, why we do mathematics.
 Our recently released ''Curriculum Focal Points'' identifies important mathematical topics in each grade, from prekindergarten through eighth grade. It identifies the mathematical content students need to understand deeply and thoroughly for future mathematics learning. 
 It offers a framework to guide states and school districts as they design and organize revisions of their expectations, standards, curriculums and assessment programs. 
 This is not a change, but reflects what has been the council's commitment to teaching and learning for more than 80 years. 

Francis Fennell
President, National Council of Teachers of Mathematics
Reston, Va., Sept. 18, 2006

To the Editor:
 In your editorial, you lament the practice of allowing people to teach math who have not studied the subject seriously. But in most districts these are the people who are allowed to select the math curriculums for schools.
 It is the ''fuzzy'' approach advocated by the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics that appeals to the math-phobic types and leads them to select ''fuzzy'' math curriculums. 
 As a result, when my sixth-grade son is in school, studying his ''fuzzy'' math, he is asked to contemplate why dividing the day into 24 hours was a better choice than 23 or 25. When he gets home and studies his sixth-grade Singapore Math book, he learns how to solve simple algebraic equations. 
 Sadly, the unwillingness of the teaching profession and N.C.T.M. to approach the teaching of math seriously and rigorously is having untold consequences, especially in urban districts, where most parents don't know that they need to step in and teach their children real math at home.

Ellen Hoerle
Eden Prairie, Minn., Sept. 18, 2006

To the Editor:
 Like those who would support a monarchy if only they would be king or queen, I would support a national curriculum (in mathematics and any other subject) if I were the one designing it. 
 Otherwise, I'd have to question the economic, political and ideological motives of those who would have the arrogance to dictate what all schools should be doing.
 After all, whatever happened to intellectual diversity in the United States?

John Craven
Manorville, N.Y., Sept. 19, 2006

The writer is chairman of the department of human development and learning at the School of Education of Dowling College.

To the Editor:
 Your editorial says the United States should follow Singapore in setting ''national priorities for what public school children should learn.''
 But Singapore is a tiny city-state of about four million people that has laws against spitting out gum in public and canes people for smoking pot. It is hardly a model for a polyglot nation of 300 million struggling to assimilate its most recent generation of immigrants.

Michael Sullivan
Rydal, Pa., Sept. 18, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Open, N.Y.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); MATHEMATICS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CURRICULA (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Education and Schools; Mathematics; Science and Technology; Teachers and School Employees; Wages and Salaries; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF TEACHERS OF MATHEMATICS (55%)

PERSON: Roger Cost; Francis (Dr) Fennell; Ellen Hoerle; John Craven; Michael (Rydal, Pa) Sullivan

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



505 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Bitter Disagreement Over School Boards

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 As an alumnus of Lawrence High School and a former resident of Cedarhurst, I was saddened to read ''At Odds Over Schools'' (Sept. 17). That community always had families of every religion, race, ethnic and economic status living in harmony. 
The children went to school, played sports and participated in school activities together, without anything more than the normal differences you would find in any activity. It was a great learning experience for all of us about getting along with people who were different from yourself.
 Apparently the Orthodox community in Lawrence thinks its situation with regard to private school tuition and public school taxes is unique. It isn't. People who willingly pay school taxes support the system because it is good for the children and the community, and a good school system keeps real estate values strong. 
 In my opinion, the example being shown to the children of Lawrence is very damaging, and will have long-term negative effects. 

Jay B. Boyle
Westhampton Beach

To the Editor:
 I've been a resident of School District 15 for 25 years. I have paid school taxes that have faithfully increased each year. The school board, under its previous leadership, squandered funds and let surpluses disappear without making repairs on school buildings or addressing problems in education -- for example, why so many of their students were flunking out.
 Taxation without representation -- in Lawrence, that's what was going on. It was time for a change. I am happy about the new school board and its commitment to fiscal responsibility and accountability for all the students of the district. 
 This school board didn't take over. It was elected by a majority. Parents are scapegoating one group, when it was their own failure to hold the previous board accountable to its duties that is the real cause of the decline in the district's performance.

Gail Siskind
Woodmere

To the Editor:
 As someone who spends in excess of $15,000 a year to send my children to private school, I admittedly may be doing passive harm to the public school system by depriving my community of two worthy students. But the active role the Orthodox in Lawrence are taking is a cynical attempt to employ a perverted justice.
 Public schooling is a right of every American. How dare those who forfeit its services try to manipulate its budget. May public school parents join the board of the Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway and hold sway over how that school spends its money?

Michael Schreiber
Holliswood, Queens

To the Editor:
 There is only one reasonable cure for the school board disputes in Lawrence and other places, with Orthodox Jews or other religious sects and denominations who are in the majority: the county or the state should legislate that one of the requisites for running for a seat on the board is to have a child in the public schools! 

B. Marc Mogil
Great Neck

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); BOARD CHANGES (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (65%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (53%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Education and Schools; Jews

PERSON: Jay B Boyle; Gail Siskind; Michael Schreiber; B Marc Mogil

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Lawrence (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



506 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Hire That Reading Czar

BYLINE: By Marjorie Gillis. 
Marjorie Gillis is a project director and senior scientist at Haskins Laboratories, a research institute that studies speech and language.

DATELINE: New Haven 

 BODY:
HERE'S some good news for Connecticut as students across the state settle in to school. The Legislature has re-established a position at the state Department of Education for a person to oversee the teaching of reading in school districts that have particularly low test scores. 
 While this position for a state reading consultant was originally created seven years ago, it hasn't been filled for the past year and a half because of fiscal and policy restraints. This time, however, the Legislature seems to realize that creating this position is more important than ever and the hope is that a consultant will be hired and on the job by the end of November. The state needs to think seriously about what sort of qualifications this consultant will need. 
This is a big step toward closing the huge gap in reading achievement within Connecticut -- indeed the largest gap between high and low achieving students in the nation. According to a 2005 report by the federal Department of Education, reading scores for Connecticut's fourth graders have declined since the last group of fourth graders was tested in 2003. Results showed that 53 percent of white students, 85 percent of Hispanic students and 88 percent of African-American students were reading below grade level.
 It's clear that we have a crisis that requires putting reading back on the state's education agenda. Legislators, local education agencies, institutes of higher education and the state Department of Education must all agree to institute practices that take advantage of the advances that have been made in reading research, particularly in the area of phonics and spelling. 
 There is no time to waste. The majority of children in Connecticut's low-performing districts are reading below grade level and facing limited chances for academic and economic success. Statistics repeatedly confirm that if a child doesn't learn to read by the end of first grade, he or she has only a one in eight chance of catching up. 
 The discouraging outlook for low-performing students is reflected in the high incidence of reading difficulties among the prison population. Some states even estimate future prison populations based on third-grade reading scores. Thus not only do reading problems affect students, but they also have a host of negative effects on the economy: the average cost to educate a child in Connecticut is close to $11,000 annually while the average cost to house an inmate here is about $28,000.
 The solution to the personal and economic costs of reading failure lies in effective instruction, yet such instruction requires teacher expertise. 
 Louisa Moats, a long-time advocate of training teachers in the science of reading, says that ''teaching reading is rocket science.'' This may come as a surprise to those, including educators, who believe that if you know how to read, you can teach someone to read. Perhaps that misunderstanding explains why most schools of education require only one or two reading courses for future elementary school teachers.
 Moreover, aspiring teachers are hardly ever taught about research on how children learn to read, what approaches work for early reading success and what to do to help students who struggle with reading. Likewise, accredited teachers rarely learn this information in continuing education courses and professional development workshops. 
 In 1999, Connecticut was on track to becoming a leader among the states in tackling reading problems. State government officials enacted legislation that created what was called the Connecticut Blueprint for Reading Achievement. This legislation and the resulting document clearly laid out what teachers should expect children to know at the end of each grade (kindergarten through third) and what skills teachers must have to teach these children. 
 A recent study, however, revealed that most elementary school teachers in Connecticut are not familiar with these standards and who is responsible for teaching them. The person who fills this new position that the state Legislature has created would be wise to resurrect the blueprint and distribute it to teachers. Furthermore, this person should broaden the scope of the original blueprint to include early literacy and preschool guidelines and proven approaches for struggling readers in middle and high school.
 This new reading consultant should also be knowledgeable about the latest research on reading and work with the next commissioner of education. Together, the two of them should align state policy with this research and devise legislation and policies that will build a teacher preparation system that truly teaches children to read. 
 Since efforts to address Connecticut's literacy needs were stymied in the past, it will take courage and commitment to pursue these latest actions. But at least, this time around it seems that the politicians are on our side.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); PRISONS (65%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Education and Schools; Reading; Spelling; Consultants

PERSON: Marjorie Gillis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



507 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: 100 Years Later, A Painful Episode Is Observed at Last

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
Two years ago, Saudia Muwwakkil, the director of communications for the Martin Luther King Jr. National Historic Site, invited community leaders to discuss how to mark the 100th anniversary of a 1906 race riot in which mobs of whites descended on the city's black residents.
 The racial strife shut down Atlanta for four days and ended with the bodies of black men hanging from trees and streetlights. But of those Ms. Muwwakkil called, almost none had heard of it.
The riot, so contrary to Atlanta's conception of itself as the progressive, racially harmonious capital of the New South, had been erased from the city's consciousness, left out of timelines and textbooks. 
 Ms. Muwwakkil said she was not surprised by the response. ''I'm an Atlanta native,'' she said, ''and I had never learned anything about the riot. It wasn't taught.'' 
 But in the months leading up to the 100th anniversary this weekend, there has been a concerted effort to correct the city's amnesia, with walking tours, public art, memorial services, numerous articles and three new books. Genealogists have found a few descendants of those involved and located the marked tombstone of one victim. Next year, the riot will become part of the state's social studies curriculum.
 The rioting began on Saturday, Sept. 22, 1906, with a surge of white hysteria fomented by segregationist politicians and, more immediately, wildly exaggerated newspaper articles of attacks on white women by black men. By the time the violence ended, at least two dozen blacks had been killed and scores more injured, some taken from their homes or pulled off streetcars. 
 Later accounts attributed the deaths of two whites to the rioting, one of them a pregnant woman who died of a heart attack when she saw two black men torn apart by bullets.
 The violence made international headlines. But in Atlanta, newspapers played down the events, reassuring readers that the ''Negroes'' had been ''disarmed and dispersed.''
 In recent years, the country has grappled with the racial episodes of its past in myriad ways, including front-page apologies by newspapers, truth commissions and criminal trials. If Atlanta is late in coming to the table, it is at least partly because of the way the city sees itself: as a place that has always offered an economic salve for racial tensions.
 But the auditorium was full on Friday when Carole Merritt, a historian, stood and said, ''The story of the riot has been too shameful to tell.'' 
 Ms. Merritt was participating in a symposium at Georgia State University, just blocks from the Five Points intersection downtown where the mob had first gathered. She has written a book about the Herndon family, whose patriarch, Alonzo Herndon, became Atlanta's first black millionaire. His Peachtree Street barber shop, elegantly appointed in mahogany and marble, was one of the rioters' first targets.
 The city's self-image was under construction well before the riot. The black educator Booker T. Washington had offered his ''Atlanta compromise,'' promising that blacks and whites could work together without social integration. The white newspaperman Henry W. Grady persuaded Northerners to invest in a tolerant, industrial New South.
 But in 1906, the city teemed with uneasy change, full of new residents who fit into unfamiliar categories: successful black business owners, college-educated blacks, the first generation of young black men not born into slavery. During the riot, three black corpses were tossed at the base of a statue of Mr. Grady.
 Though the episode is commonly called the Atlanta Race Riot, some say the name is itself a whitewash, because the word riot implies unrest by a minority group.
 ''It's not a riot,'' said June Dobbs Butts, 78. ''No, it was a massacre.'' Ms. Butts's father, John Wesley Dobbs, a civil rights leader, referred to the episode as ''the Horror.''
 That first night, whites shot, beat or stabbed to death any black man they could catch. One victim was a lame bootblack, another a Western Union messenger. On Sunday, with most blacks huddled inside their homes, groups of whites went into black neighborhoods in search of more victims. Some blacks defended themselves with guns, driving away their attackers. On Monday, a white party entered Brownsville, a middle-class black neighborhood, and a shootout ensued, resulting in the death of a white county police officer named James Heard. 
 If the violence contradicted the city's self-image, the response was pure Atlanta. By Tuesday, white city officials had met with a hand-picked group of black leaders in an effort to restore order, beginning a tradition of interracial dialogue that became known as ''the Atlanta way.'' 
 The process of forgetting began almost immediately. ''Atlanta is herself again, business is restored, and the riot is forgotten,'' one newspaper headline declared two days later.
 But the riot shaped the city in powerful ways. Scores of middle-class blacks left the city, and segregation grew more entrenched.
 ''Interracial cooperation was not equal,'' said Clarissa Myrick-Harris, a historian and member of the Coalition to Remember the 1906 Atlanta Race Riot, which planned this weekend's events. ''It was another way of maintaining and asserting power over blacks.'' 
 ''The white elite chose who they were going to meet with in the black community,'' Dr. Myrick-Harris said, and a class divide emerged. Whites blamed the lower classes, both black and white, for the violence, and some black leaders characterized blacks who fought back as threats. 
 The riot also weighed heavily against assimilationists like Booker T. Washington in favor of more radical black thinkers like W. E. B. DuBois, who thought federal intervention was needed to protect blacks. 
 ''It disproved Washington's belief that if blacks worked hard, saved money and became respectable, then whites would recognize their interest in protecting them,'' said David Fort Godshalk, the author of a recent book about the riot. 
 The riot helped spur the formation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and was cited as a life-changing experience for people as diverse as Walter White, who became the head of that organization, and Margaret Mitchell, the author of ''Gone With the Wind.'' 
 And its remembrance has brought a measure of pride to people like Pat Walker Bearden, who knew that her grandfather, Alexander Walker, had been in prison but only recently learned that it was because he had fired as Officer Heard approached his house. Mr. Walker had two small children and a pregnant wife. He was convicted in the officer's death.
 Ms. Bearden said that while she was working on her family genealogy, she began to learn more about Mr. Walker from her father: ''Dad would always start out saying, 'Papa didn't take no mess.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: People gathered at the grave site of Martin Luther King Jr. on Thursday as part of this weekend's commemoration of the 1906 race riot in Atlanta. Above, descendants of those involved in the riot were on hand, including Farrow Allen, left, and Pat Walker Bearden and Yolanda Walker Simmons, who are sisters. (Photographs by Jessica McGowan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (92%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); WALKING & JOGGING (77%); TEXTBOOKS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); GENEALOGY (71%); WRITERS (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); DEATHS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CURRICULA (68%) Blacks; Demonstrations and Riots; Monuments and Memorials; History; Blacks

ORGANIZATION: National Assn for the Advancement of Colored People

PERSON: Shaila Dewan

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Atlanta (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



508 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: That Season Ticket on eBay? It Could Cost Seller the Seat

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The Yankees are revoking the season tickets of fans who have sold their unused tickets on StubHub.com and other Web sites and are looking to start their own entity to sell tickets in the lucrative secondary market.
 ''Why pick on me?'' said Orlando Bautista, a doctor in Smithtown, N.Y., who was told by the team in August that his upper-deck and bleacher seats at Yankee Stadium would be revoked after the season.
He added: ''I'm a good fan. I don't drink. I don't curse.''
 Another fan whose tickets were revoked, and who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to imperil any chance he had of reclaiming his seats, said: ''I'm contemplating being a Mets fan. I'm really hurt. You feel like you're trying to fight City Hall, but this is worse.'' 
 Lonn A. Trost, the Yankees' chief operating officer, said he was not sending a misleading message to season-ticket resellers, while at the same time considering a plan to make the Yankees their own authorized reseller.
 ''It's a violation of our policy to resell tickets,'' Trost said. ''It's in our contract. If you don't want to sign it, you don't have to buy tickets.''
 The tickets come with licenses stating that reselling tickets is not permitted. But that has not deterred fans from posting hundreds or thousands of tickets for sale or auction on any given day on StubHub and eBay.
 But those two Web sites say that season tickets should be treated like a car owner who can sell to anyone. ''If a fan spends hundreds or thousands of dollars on tickets, they have the expectation that they can do what they want,'' said Greg Bettinelli, eBay's director of event tickets.
 Trost said that the team's historic stance against reselling season tickets would not prevent it from considering entering the secondary market.
 ''Times change,'' he said. ''You re-examine everything.''
 Elizabeth Block, an assistant New York attorney general, said the Yankees seem to have the legal right to prevent their season-ticket holders from reselling on outside Web sites while making their own site the exclusive one. But, she said, ''You could argue it's deceptive.'' 
 An exemption in a state law passed last year allows the original sellers of event tickets, like the Yankees, to resell tickets online on their own sites. 
 The legislation, which essentially legalized scalping, allows ticket holders to resell their seats online for a maximum 45 percent over face value for events at facilities with at least 6,000 seats. Most states have no such limits.
 If the Yankees start their proposed site -- Pinstripe Marketplace is listed as ''coming soon'' on Yankees.com -- they would be able to earn money on both the first sale of the tickets and on their subsequent resale. If the plan proceeds, the Yankees would follow the lead of 27 other major league teams that are already in the secondary market, including the Mets.
 ''The other teams are successful and making money, but that's not our chief issue, which is to make sure scalpers aren't ripping off our fan base,'' Trost said. To make money on its site, the Yankees would charge a fee on every sale, most likely only to the season-ticket holder who is selling.
 StubHub charges the sellers and buyers, and eBay charges only the seller. The Mets charge sellers a 10 percent fee on the ticket price and buyers 11 percent.
 Stephen Happel, an economics professor at Arizona State University, said there was only one reason for teams to get into the resale market. ''Teams realize there is a lot of money to be made in the secondary market, but they weren't getting any of it,'' said Happel, who has studied the market.
 The Yankees' efforts to snare season-ticket holders on StubHub or eBay have become more noticeable in recent months, said Sean Pate, a StubHub spokesman, although Trost said it has been going on for years.
 The Yankees troll the online resellers looking for tickets with seat numbers attached, but fans tend to avoid being so easily detected. 
 Fans who post tickets with resellers listing only the section and row numbers are more difficult to hunt down, but Trost said that stadium security will ''flood the area'' to try to learn who sold the ticket. He did not describe how guards find a ticket buyer sitting in a resold seat.
 Pate said guards have stopped fans who visibly carry StubHub envelopes and questioned them about where they got their tickets, which would help to pursue the season-ticket holder. Trost confirmed the tactic.
 Pate said only 10 StubHub customers have had their season tickets revoked. In eight of those instances, the team detected that fans were e-mailing their tickets to StubHub through a Yankees.com forwarding service.
 ''It's a witch hunt against us and eBay for giving fans more access to these games,'' Pate said. ''These aren't scalpers. Season-ticket holders are their most loyal fans.'' 
 He added: ''We're just trying to get fans to games. Why are they putting the fear of God in them?''
 A spokeswoman for EBay said that it was unaware that any of its customers had had their season tickets revoked. Trost would say only that the total number of revocations from all the outlets investigated by the Yankees had exceeded 10.
 Pate said its customers were safe from the Yankees' surveillance in virtually all of their online transactions. He suggested that resellers e-mail their tickets to themselves before forwarding them to StubHub.
 Bautista said that he did not know how his ticket sale on StubHub was discovered by the Yankees, his adopted team. He came to New York in 1979 from Kansas City, Mo., as a Royals fan and started rooting for the Mets. But his children are Yankee fans and did not want to attend Mets games with him, so he bought his Yankee tickets.
 In June, he received a letter from a Yankee lawyer, Alan Chang, telling him that his six tickets had been revoked because the tickets he had sold to an early season game had been tracked to a sale on StubHub.
 ''They caught me in June, and I said, 'fine, I can't complain. It's their policy,' '' Bautista said. He said the team sent mixed messages by enforcing the sanctity of its license, but on its radio broadcasts on WCBS-AM, John Sterling read StubHub ads that did not carry any cautions about team policy.
 (Trost said that he has asked WCBS not to accept the ads.)
 Bautista said he pleaded that he would not resell any more tickets and was reinstated. But he was bounced again last month when the Yankees traced his tickets for late-season games for sale on StubHub. He insisted that he posted them before Chang's letter, but he said that the Yankees did not believe him.
 Trost offers little compassion. ''Most of the individuals say they did it just once. Pity me,'' he said. ''Or, 'I gave it to the salesman who gave it to his brother, who gave to his son and he put it on eBay,' and it's usually not true.''
 The Yankees typically write to violators that it is the team's ''absolute right'' to revoke their season tickets at the end of the year, deny them postseason tickets and refuse to offer them a season-ticket license ''for the 2007 baseball season and beyond.'' Trost said he had not determined if amnesty would be granted at some point.
 Two teams that have preceded the Yankees into the online resale market, the Mets and the San Diego Padres, have not punished fans for peddling their unused tickets on StubHub, eBay or other Web sites like RazorGator.com, and seem content to co-exist with them.
 ''Our license says not to resell unless it's on a Padres Web site,'' said Jim Kiersnowski, the team's ticket operations director. This season, 36,000 tickets have been resold on the Padres' site. ''We could revoke their tickets, but we don't think it would help our relationship with our customers,'' he said.
 The Mets have resold about 6,000 tickets on their marketplace site, which opened this season. Dave Howard, the team's executive vice president of business operations, said, ''We don't have a legal policy against reselling on other sites, but we will take action against scalping.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: If the Yankees and the Mets manage to advance to the World Series together, as they did in 2000, tickets like these will command a high price. (Photo by Marty Lederhandler/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); TICKET AGENCIES (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); AUCTIONS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); LEGISLATION (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) Baseball; Computers and the Internet; Finances

COMPANY: EBAY INC (86%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) New York Yankees

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (86%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (86%)

PERSON: Richard Sandomir

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



509 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; RED HOOK JOURNAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: A Scrappy Laundryman, a Tough Customer, and a Gunman in Trouble

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
Near gone are the stevedores, and now there are suits and ties at Red Hook's Finest Diner on Van Brunt Street, where The Village Voice has a rack by the Luce on the Hook boutique, by the restaurant where they sing karaoke.
 Down the block, the suits are cleaned at the Barakat Laundromat, where a poster of ''Desperate Housewives'' hangs by a sign that says, ''Shirts $2.75.'' Across from the Galaga game machine, big suds-churners stand in a row down to the office that used to have just the bottom half of a door, but now has a full door. 
The laundryman's family has worked for decades in this outpost beyond the subway's reach. A supermarket the family operated has been robbed before, in the 1980's.
 ''I was a kid then,'' said the laundryman, Ebrahem Barakat, who is 28 now.
 Street smarts were a thing to have then, when the gangs of the Red Hook Houses project seemed eternally invincible. In 1990, the police precinct in Red Hook reported 13 murders, 571 robberies and 392 assaults; last year those numbers were down by more than two-thirds.
 But numbers aren't everything, and down by the waterfront they can be even less. In the spring, a grand jury indicted 143 people on charges of drug distribution and conspiracy to control the Red Hook streets. They ranged in age from 16 to 69, and some of the street-level operatives were said to be holding $900 in cash. Prosecutors were not sure what to make of all that, other than to say the sting operation had been a success.
 An alternate inference would be that this is still Red Hook, and street smarts remain useful. To the laundryman, that means being ready for whoever comes walking through the door.
 On May 23, 2005, whoever came early in the morning, in the form of Edward Rodriguez, 47. As Mr. Barakat took inventory and put the Rottweiler puppy into the office behind the half door, Mr. Rodriguez asked for detergent.
 By Mr. Barakat's account, delivered in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn this month, he turned his back to get the detergent, felt a sharp blow on the head, fell, got up and turned to lunge at his attacker. Then he saw the gun in Mr. Rodriguez's hand.
 Mr. Rodriguez backed him against a wall, Mr. Barakat told jurors, then fumbled at his waistband for some unseen thing. When Mr. Rodriguez looked down, Mr. Barakat had a decision to make.
 ''I punched him in the face,'' he said.
 Then he jumped on Mr. Rodriguez's back, the two of them wrestling toward the front of the store, Mr. Rodriguez holding the gun, Mr. Barakat holding the hand holding the gun.
 ''I was on his back, like you would carry somebody like a piggyback ride or something,'' Mr. Barakat said, ''and I wouldn't let him go.''
 The next man through the door was William Rogers, an unemployed neighbor with a buzz cut and a prizefighter's nose. He would later appear on the witness stand dressed entirely in Nike, and a lawyer for Mr. Rodriguez, Manette Kripke, would describe him as ''a bit of a rough customer.''
 Mr. Rogers testified that he put down his coffee and joined the fight. The two of them worked Mr. Rodriguez over pretty good, heard the gun jam, wrestled it away and tossed it to the front of the store, then lay on the tile out of breath. Mr. Rodriguez got up, grabbed the gun and ran. The others gave chase.
 ''My hand was in bad shape after that,'' Mr. Rogers testified. ''I didn't go to a doctor. I put it on ice and did what I had to do. Took aspirins.''
 Mr. Rodriguez was arrested up the block toward the dress boutique. He had taken off his bloody shirt and put the gun beneath a tire.
 Back at the Laundromat, investigators found a live round on the floor alongside a set of flex cuffs, the plastic strips the police use to quickly detain rioters.
 ''You get somebody's wrists together,'' testified Officer Thomas Flynn, ''pull on the tie and that's it.''
 Those ties were the thing Mr. Rodriguez had been fumbling for in his waistband, prosecutors said. They charged him with assault and attempted robbery, but Ms. Kripke argued that the witness accounts made no sense.
 ''They threw him down and they beat him up, and they pretty much admitted that,'' Ms. Kripke told jurors. 
 ''If his intent was to do the robbery like they say it was, why wouldn't he finish the robbery after he got the gun back?''
 Mr. Rodriguez was convicted of attempted assault and weapons possession; he is scheduled for sentencing on Thursday.
 Back at the Laundromat, Mr. Barakat still folds socks and Mr. Rogers still stands around. The Galaga machine waits in the back corner. The Rottweiler is full grown, and that entrance to the office has been replaced.
 ''The door was a half door,'' Mr. Barakat said in court. ''Now it's a full door.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ebrahem Barakat at the Barakat Laundromat in Brooklyn, where he grappled with an attacker last year. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROBBERY (90%); SHOOTINGS (87%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); CONSPIRACY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DOGS (71%); INDICTMENTS (70%); LARCENY & THEFT (70%); GRAND JURY (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); JURY TRIALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) Robberies and Thefts; Bakarat Laundromat (NYC)

PERSON: Michael Brick; Ebrahem Barakat; William Rogers; Edward Rodriguez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



510 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: In City, 2 Die and 2 Are Hurt In Attacks in a Span of Hours

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY and MATTHEW SWEENEY

 BODY:
Across the Bronx, Manhattan and Brooklyn early yesterday, in a public housing complex, a subway car and a packed nightclub, a handful of unrelated stabbings and shootings claimed the lives of two men and injured two more, according to the police.
 About 1 a.m., outside the Edenwald Houses, a public housing project at 1150 East 229th Street in the Edenwald section of the Bronx, David Omar White Floyd, 22, was shot in the upper abdomen, the police and witnesses said. After the shooting, Mr. Floyd, who lived with his mother and stepfather, got up and staggered about 60 yards before collapsing, witnesses said. 
According to the police, he was pronounced dead at Jacobi Medical Center at 1:30 a.m.
 Jason Hopes, a friend of Mr. Floyd's, said the shooting might have been the result of a series of fights that Mr. Floyd had been embroiled in with other young neighborhood men.
 Mr. Floyd, who had an arrest record, details of which the police would not disclose, was chatting with friends in the complex's courtyard when a single shot sounded, Mr. Hopes said. The group saw three young men in hooded sweatshirts approach. Two had drawn guns and were firing, Mr. Hopes said, and one yelled, ''Yo, get the one in red.'' 
 The group of friends scattered, and Mr. Floyd, who was wearing a red and white Chicago Bulls baseball hat, ran about 30 yards before he was struck, Mr. Hopes said. The gunmen fled across a darkened field, Mr. Hopes said. No arrests had been made yesterday..
 About 3:20 a.m., on a northbound No. 2 subway train in Chelsea, Antonio Ramirez, 33, was stabbed in the abdomen after getting into an argument with a stranger, the police said.
 Mr. Ramirez and the other man began arguing after boarding the train at the 14th Street station, the police said. After stabbing Mr. Ramirez, the attacker got off the train at 23rd Street and ran away, the police said. 
 Mr. Ramirez, bleeding, called 911 from the 28th Street station. He was taken to Bellevue Hospital Center, where he received two stitches before being released, according to the police. 
 Crime in the city's transit system this year is down 18.5 percent from the same period last year, according to New York Police Department statistics, and down 30 percent compared with the same period of 2002.
 About 4 a.m., at 611 East 133rd Street in the South Bronx, a 29-year-old man was critically wounded after he was shot in the chest, the police said. The victim, who was not identified, had gotten into a fight with his attacker, who fired his gun and fled, the police said. The man was listed in critical condition at Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center, the police said.
 About 5 a.m., at a party in a nightclub called Club Reflections, at 55 Linden Boulevard, in the Kensington section of Brooklyn, Rawle Sampson, 29, was stabbed several times in the torso and a leg, the police said. 
 Mr. Sampson was found slumped and bloodied by a friend, the police said. He was declared dead half an hour later at Kings County Hospital Center.
 Also yesterday, the police said they were looking for two men in connection with the death of Jose Padilla, 27, who died after being shot twice in the head in a rooming house in Bedford Park, the Bronx, early Thursday. Mr. Padilla, who was unemployed, was pronounced dead at St. Barnabas Hospital just before 4 a.m. 
 The police identified the two men they were looking for as Jose Garcia, 21, and Phillip Stapleton, 18. Both were friends of Mr. Padilla's, said a neighbor, who would not give his name because he said he feared retribution. 
 Mr. Garcia also lived in the rooming house, at 2891 Valentine Avenue, the neighbor said. 
 Funeral services for Mr. Padilla, who was known as Vamp, were scheduled for Tuesday.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in some copies on Sept. 24 about several stabbings and shootings in the Bronx, Manhattan and Brooklyn misidentified the Brooklyn neighborhood where the nightclub Club Reflections, the scene of one stabbing, is located. It is Flatbush, not Kensington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TRAINS (86%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); ARRESTS (77%); CRIME STATISTICS (65%); STATISTICS (64%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (60%); STEPPARENTS (55%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Subways; Murders and Attempted Murders

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BULLS (54%)

PERSON: Cara Buckley; Matthew Sweeney; David Omar White Floyd; Antonio Ramirez; Rawle Sampson; Jose (Shooting Victim) Padilla

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



511 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Long Days, Challenging Clients, Potty-Training Experience Useful 

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

 BODY:
Like the character played by Eddie Murphy in ''Daddy Day Care,'' Todd Cole needed the push of a layoff to join the small number of men who work as child care providers.
 Mr. Cole, of Cortlandt Manor, N.Y., lost his job at a small medical equipment company in February 2005. Almost immediately, he and his wife, Jennifer, a special-education teacher, pulled their two young daughters out of a local day care center, and Mr. Cole began caring for them himself. By late August, he was still scrambling to find a job, so he followed the suggestions of friends who had told him he was particularly good at working with children. The result? Daddy's Daycare, a business that Mr. Cole, 41, runs in the basement of his split-level home.
 Mr. Cole became a registered family day care provider in February, and the state of New York now allows him to watch six children over the age of 2, as well as two school-age children. In addition to his own daughters, Sophie, 2, and Kayla, 5, Mr. Cole watches three 2-year-old boys, generally from 7 a.m. till 6 p.m., and in early September he began providing after-school care for a 5-year-old boy and an 8-year-old girl. 
 He has had to make adjustments. Mr. Cole had to undergo a rigorous background check, take a health and safety class, buy extra fire extinguishers and smoke detectors, and draw up a floor plan of his house to show fire exits. He is also required to conduct daily health checks on the children, and every six months he receives an unannounced visit from a local child care authority.
 By local standards, Mr. Cole's fees are relatively modest: either $50 a day or $225 for the week. But his family's grocery bills have doubled to more than $300 a week, and now the family is footing another large bill as well: a contractor is installing a second bathroom to accommodate the four children who are about to begin potty training. 
 Long days are the norm. Before starting his child care duties one morning recently, Mr. Cole first put in an hour mopping the kitchen floor, vacuuming, and sweeping the driveway and front sidewalk. When the 2-year-old twins, Marcus and Marquis, arrived, he fed them, along with his own two children, then spent three hours watching six children either play or work with educational toys like flash cards and puzzles. 
 Shortly before lunch (grilled cheese sandwiches, cucumber slices and cut-up cantaloupe), Mr. Cole took all six children out to his driveway. There he used chalk to draw a hopscotch pattern for 9-year-old Amy, then pumped up a bicycle tire for Kayla. When Marcus tried to maneuver his tricycle onto a nearby sidewalk, he admonished him gently. ''Marcus, please turn around,'' he said. ''Thank you, buddy.'' 
 Despite the challenges, Mr. Cole is pleased with his work. For one, he no longer has to fill the family minivan with gas once or twice a week just to get to his job. He also loves being able to watch his children grow up. ''Now I walk down the stairs and I'm at work,'' he said. ''I'm as happy doing this as when I started.''
 Men make up only about 4 percent of those who provide either care or early childhood education to children 5 and younger, and that number has stayed about the same since the 1980's, said Bryan G. Nelson, founder of MenTeach, a Minneapolis nonprofit group that supports men who teach. 
 Mr. Nelson said that he had noticed a slight uptick in the number of men entering the field, but that a combination of factors kept the overall number low. ''The first barrier is the stereotype that this is woman's work, and the second is the fear of being accused of abuse,'' he said. ''But the third barrier is economics. If we started paying child care salaries of $100,000 a year, both men and women would go into the field.'' In May 2005, the Bureau of Labor Statistics estimated that child care workers in the state of New York had an annual average wage of $21,850. 
 In Bedford, N.Y., Larry Aguzzi is happy with the child care business he runs with his wife, Ester.
 In 1996, Mr. Aguzzi was working as a remodeling contractor when he took on a project for a woman who was running a day care business out of her home, and whose husband was about to close his own business so he could join her. 
 During the project, Mr. Aguzzi decided it might be fun to work with children instead of dealing with the many downsides of the remodeling business -- like subcontractors not showing up on time -- and soon he and his wife began looking into running their own day care business. 
 When the woman who had inspired him called unexpectedly to say that her husband had died of a heart attack and that she was shutting her business and needed to place two of the children, the couple was ready. 
 Between them, they now care for 18 children, and say they have a waiting list for an additional half a dozen. 
 Like Mr. Cole, Mr. Aguzzi now puts in an entirely different kind of day. Because he likes to cook, he often cooks with the children, sometimes baking bread, or even preparing roast chicken and gravy. But now he or his wife also spend at least an hour a day on the paperwork that state and county authorities require. Because they are part of a federal food program that partly reimburses them for the costs of feeding the children healthy meals, they also keep a daily log on what they ate and when. The couple's lives are hectic for another reason: They have four children of their own, aged 7 to 20. 
 ''I get a joy out of this, but I don't know any men who have even tried to get into this field,'' Mr. Aguzzi said recently. 
 But attitudes may be changing. During a recent Yankees game that Mr. Cole attended with three other men, he said he was peppered with questions but was also shown ''lots of support.'' 
 Three of the 60 teachers at TimberRidge Family Center, a day care center and preschool, in Armonk, N.Y., are men, and the director, Elizabeth Anderson, said that parents generally supported the idea of men being involved in day care. ''In any group that has a male teacher, I usually have a couple of parents that ask questions, but in time they come to adore the male presence in their child's room,'' she said. 
 One is 37-year-old Michael Magrone. After graduating from college in 1991, Mr. Magrone spent eight years working with 3- and 4-year-olds at the child care center that preceded TimberRidge before deciding to become a public-school teacher. As he saw it, his salary might double almost immediately, and would probably triple within 10 years. 
 Mr. Magrone did teach at a public school, but came back to TimberRidge in 2005. ''The elementary and middle-school kids weren't as much fun as the preschoolers, and they were also more easily distracted and less motivated to learn,'' he said. 
 In early September, Mr. Magrone became a head teacher at TimberRidge. Along with an assistant teacher, he is now working with 12 children. ''I absolutely love it,'' he said. ''I'll probably never own a big house or afford a lot of other things, but I love to go to work every day.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Todd Cole, proprietor of Daddy's Daycare in Cortlandt Manor, N.Y., with some clients. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); DISMISSALS (78%); HOME SECURITY (73%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (71%); SMOKE DETECTORS (69%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (64%); TOYS & GAMES (60%) Day Care; Men; Labor

PERSON: EDDIE MURPHY (73%) Sana Siwolop

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



512 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 5059 words

HEADLINE: Lost Horizons

BYLINE: By Adam Nagourney. 
When Ken Mehlman took over the Republican Party, his goal was to secure a G.O.P. majority for decades to come. Now he's just trying to survive November.

 BODY:
It should have been an easy morning for Ken Mehlman, chairman of the Republican National Committee. He had settled in for a radio interview with a friendly questioner, Frank Beckmann, broadcasting live on WJR from the first floor of the Renaissance Center, home to General Motors in Detroit. As the traffic report hummed over the studio monitors, Mehlman and Beckmann bantered about the liberal media and the war on terrorism and all the problems with the Democrats. But something changed when the microphone went live. Beckmann did not turn hostile, but he was nothing like the cheerleader-interviewer Mehlman tends to find on the other side of the table. Why has Bush been so slow to make a case -- ''He waited too long, didn't he?'' -- for Iraq? Was Bush's unpopularity dragging Republicans down in places like Michigan, one of the few states where Republicans actually had a chance to topple a Democratic governor and senator? And why was Bush, sounding just like a Democrat, pressing an immigration plan that could help illegal immigrants become citizens? ''Why should anybody support what the president puts out there on this, Ken?'' Beckmann asked. 
It is hard to fathom how much Mehlman's life has changed since he took the chairman's desk at the Republican National Committee headquarters on Capitol Hill in January 2005, the reward for managing, together with Karl Rove at the White House, what was widely praised as one of the most sophisticated and groundbreaking presidential campaigns in a generation. ''It was an election where they knew more than we did,'' Joe Lockhart, a senior strategist for John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, told me. For the next year, Chairman Mehlman talked big and thought big about the Republican Party: about how he and his allies could fundamentally redraw the political architecture of America, change the way Americans conceptualize the two parties and establish Republicans as the dominant party in America long after George Bush returned to Texas. That meant putting a lock on the White House and Congress, and it meant winning statehouses and governorships, which draw the redistricting maps that are the cement of long-term political realignments. This was nothing short of a campaign to marginalize the Democratic Party and everything that Mehlman, reflecting Bush and Rove, said it stood for: big government, high taxes, liberal judges, a timorous foreign policy.
 In meticulous detail and with a cool mastery of his subject, he preached about the revolution in marketing and data technologies and the new world of advertising and communications that had transformed politics since he first arrived at the George Bush for President campaign in Austin seven years earlier. It is a political paradigm that Republicans -- particularly Rove, Mehlman and the Bush campaign's senior strategist, Matthew Dowd -- grasped before Democrats did, and nearly as much as anything else, it accounted for Republican successes in 2002 and 2004. After he was named chairman, Mehlman began filling his days with appearances before African-American audiences across the country, where he apologized for past Republican slights to black Americans, portrayed Republicans as the ''party of Lincoln'' and pledged to challenge Democrats for black, as well as Hispanic, support. Quixotic? Perhaps. But it reflected just how bullish the second-term Bush Republican Party, with its eye to history and legacy and lasting power, had become. 
 There was time for such indulgences in the days before a hurricane roared through New Orleans and the country turned against the war Bush had launched in Iraq. These days, of course, talk of a Republican realignment has given way to talk of simple survival this November. Now the lofty ideals and bold ambitions of Mehlman and Rove often seem in direct conflict with the short-term survival instincts of Republicans who want nothing more than to get past the next election. House Republicans sabotaged Bush's immigration plan, ignoring Mehlman's warnings about the damage that an enforcement-only immigration bill could do to the party's long-term growth among Hispanic voters, a critical part of the party realignment that the White House had envisioned. He spent much of July trying to manage the fallout among black leaders after House conservatives delayed a routine extension of the Voting Rights Act. Earlier this year, at the American Jewish Committee's 100th annual meeting, Mehlman, the second Jewish chairman in the history of the Republican National Committee, heard scattered boos as he defended the Iraq war to a room fearful that the White House's Iraq policy had empowered Iran, whose new president had expressed a desire to destroy Israel. It was dispiriting for Mehlman, especially since Jewish voters are another group that Republicans are trying to peel off the Democratic base.
 Mehlman finds himself this fall atop a Republican Party as divided as at any time since George W. Bush came to Washington. He is confronted, day after day, with Republican candidates who criticize the president and his policies or who execute a high-profile skedaddle when Bush comes to town -- both of which Mehlman reacts to with a peculiar combination of empathy and disapproval. ''My goal for them is to win elections,'' he said last month, sitting in a wing chair in his office, under a photo that showed him and Rove talking as they walked out of the West Wing behind Bush. ''But if you don't want this election to be a referendum on Bush, don't make it a referendum on Bush. If they run against Bush -- rather than running as an independent Republican -- it can't help them; it can only hurt them.''
 While Mehlman blames Iraq for most of the administration's problems -- a conflict that he argues was noble and one that, he says, will in the end make the world safer -- he acknowledges the damage his party suffered because of Katrina. Mehlman is renowned in Washington for his organizational skills, for assembling lean and efficient operations filled with loyal and largely happy people who rarely make mistakes, so it is understandably vexing for him that many Americans have come to see the administration as managerially incompetent and politically inept. Late this past spring, Mehlman began warning Republicans that the party could lose the House, something that seemed unthinkable a year earlier. Over dinner this summer, he told me he was fairly certain that Republicans would hold on in November, yet the bouncy confidence he once displayed seemed gone. When asked if he worried that Republican voters, demoralized by this tough year for the Bush White House, would stay home in November, Mehlman responded with a one-word answer -- ''Yes'' -- that was striking to anyone who has spent time with this always-on-message chairman.
 Mehlman still travels tirelessly on behalf of his party (270,000 miles to 43 states and Puerto Rico since becoming chairman) and is still raising money at a breakneck pace ($184 million from the beginning of 2005 through the end of August). He is still fast to the draw in an argument on any subject, no matter how technical or arcane, and never without a defense for an administration that certainly seems to need one these days. ''The president is dealing with big and hard things,'' Mehlman patiently told a Republican volunteer in a Detroit suburb who could not understand why Bill Clinton -- Bill Clinton! -- was more popular than George Bush. But there are dark bags under Mehlman's eyes now, and the wear of this past year was etched on his face when he turned 40 in August. A man who never seemed to take pleasure in the kind of sledgehammer attack that Rove so clearly savors -- who seemed much happier talking about the legacy of Ronald Reagan or microtargeting as a tool for turning out voters -- could be heard in recent weeks issuing searing partisan attacks, reverting to the familiar stance of a party leader who does not like what he sees on the horizon.
 ''I'm not flipping out,'' he told me recently, looking straight ahead. ''There are absolutely days when you are -- you know -- when this is very challenging. Absolutely.''
 Ken Mehlman jumped into the front seat of the S.U.V. squiring him through a three-day rush of fund-raisers and pep talks to Republican activists, his spirits lifted on this wet June day by what he had just seen in a squat and messy sprawl of an office in the battleground suburbs of Detroit. It was the Macomb County ''victory center,'' a jumble of tables and folding chairs and boxes of cold pizza where dozens of volunteers clutched Republican Party-issued cellphones against their ears -- the days of banks of telephones plugged into a wall are over -- and read from scripts. At the end of each interview, they blackened a circle on a bubble sheet (think No. 2 pencils and the SAT test), signifying whether this was a voter the party would circle back to -- once, twice or more -- to make certain he or she would be at the polls on Nov. 7. It was still nearly five months before Election Day, but the 72-hour plan, the Republicans' voter-turnout program that ambushed the Democrats in 2002 and 2004, was already humming along. Mehlman was delighted as he watched what he said was his party's latest technological adaptation. The bubble sheets could be scanned by a computer, he said proudly, saving time and money as the results are incorporated into the Republicans' formidable database. ''It is a relatively nice day at the end of June, and in the building we just left, they just made 10,000 ID calls,'' Mehlman said. ''That is really good for the party.''
 If there is a defining characteristic to Mehlman and his tenure as Republican national chairman, it is his fascination with the communications and technological revolution that is sweeping American politics. This has produced once-unimaginable new ways to track down potential voters, by predicting voting habits based on where Americans live and the cars they drive and the magazines they read, and delivering tailored messages to different segments of an overly saturated electorate. Mehlman's chairmanship has become an argument for the notion that the garrulous and instinctual political boss may be all but obsolete in this age of supersophisticated polling, data mining, niche marketing and microtargeting. In an arena that seems to value instinct, bravado, gall and undisciplined excess, Mehlman is empirical and deliberative. Why should a campaign manager direct resources based on a hunch when there is consumer data that can flush out Republicans living deep in Democratic enclaves? Why guess when you can measure what words will be most persuasive to the middle-class exurbanite voter marching on the StairMaster (watching, no doubt, the Republican ad that the Bush campaign placed on the closed-circuit gym channel after realizing that its voters were no longer at home watching the network news)? 
 When Mehlman talks about politics, he doesn't talk about Machiavelli; he talks about ''Moneyball,'' Michael Lewis's book about how the Oakland A's employed statistical modeling to assemble a powerhouse baseball team, sending to pasture the old-line scouts with their years of calling it from their guts. ''We are the party of 'Moneyball!''' Mehlman proclaimed, practically shouting and bouncing on the balls of his feet, talking to a room of slightly bewildered Republicans in California last year. ''They measured everything. We are doing the same thing in politics.'' 
 Mehlman, the son of a certified public account, seems as happy talking about the latest employee-relations techniques as he is talking about the inspiration he said he found watching Reagan stand up to the Soviet Union. ''Gut alone is crazy,'' Mehlman told me. ''Why do gut when you can go with objective information? Hope is not a strategy. And gut instincts are always less effective than objective analysis.'' Mehlman's endless talk of metrics and management techniques is viewed as a quirky if fundamental part of his chemistry. His White House colleagues and friends poke fun at his obsession with order and measurement, at his daily spreadsheet of to-do lists. ''He's anal-retentive, man!'' Karl Rove says.
 Back when Mehlman took the job of party chairman, Republican command of the technologies of winning elections seemed the icing on the cake. Now it seems more like the cake itself. If there is one defining question in this campaign, it is whether the two big Republican Party weapons in this age of Bush -- voter turnout and national security in the post-9/11 era -- can be wheeled out again to overcome a political environment that has curdled for the Republican Party. As in 2002 and 2004, the White House has been hitting Democrats on national security and terror in a choreographed way, with a rollout that began, predictably, around Labor Day. But Democrats are pushing back this time, arguing that Bush's policies have if anything made the world a less safe place, an argument reinforced by the continued images of turmoil from Iraq. Polls show that the Republican advantage on the issue is not what it once was, and even some Republicans worry about how many times the White House can credibly go back to this same well. 
 By contrast, the intricate political machine that Mehlman has built to identify and turn out Republicans is growing, and if the election in November is close, it could provide the Republican Party with the fire wall it needs. Democrats have, if belatedly, learned lessons from what the Republican Party has done and are adopting many of the same techniques. Still, no one thinks the Democrats have caught up on get-out-the-vote, or even can catch up before Election Day. Harold Ickes, a long-term national Democratic leader and one of the smartest strategists in either party, didn't hesitate when asked if he thought the Republican Party had lapped the Democrats in the area of targeting and turnout. ''Yes -- there's no question about it,'' he said. Ickes's response was revealing because he has embarked on a private effort to build a national database of registered voters, an implicit rebuke of the slower pace of Howard Dean, the Democratic Party leader, in this area. And Ickes was warm in his appraisal of Mehlman. ''The general view is, he's very good,'' Ickes said. ''They have good systems and he's a good system person.''
 Mehlman has for this election taken what the Republican Party assembled in Ohio in 2004 -- a database of every voting-age resident that includes voting history, party registration, demographic data and consumer history -- and expanded it, he said, to include every voting-age American in the country. ''In Ohio, in '04, we got the tip of the iceberg,'' Mehlman said. ''What we did over the last two years is we got the entire iceberg.'' With that kind of data, Republican campaign workers in every state in the country can identify potential Republicans who may never have voted before and bring them to the polls. To help neighborhood organizers plot their door-to-door visits -- and to make what might be a dreary exercise at least interesting -- the Republican Party uses satellite pictures from Google Earth to chart the routes for house-to-house canvassing. 
 There have been two early tests of this machine already in this election cycle, and both were encouraging for Mehlman. The most recent was in Rhode Island earlier this month, where Republicans dispatched 72-hour teams to help Senator Lincoln Chafee beat back what had seemed to be a very threatening conservative challenge by Steve Laffey, the mayor of Cranston. (Mehlman and other top Republicans concluded that they had no chance of keeping the seat in this Democratic state if Laffey won.) Turnout shattered the Republican primary record for the state, set in 1994: 62,099 people voted, a 38 percent increase. Republicans said their 86 get-out-the-vote volunteers made 198,921 contacts with prospective voters in the final 11 days of the campaign. As Chafee declared victory, Democrats could not help taking note of these numbers. And earlier, on June 6 in California's 50th Congressional District, in San Diego, in a special election to replace Duke Cunningham, the Republican congressman from San Diego who quit in scandal, the Republican Party put the full press of a 72-hour plan to work. The Republican, Brian Bilbray, squeaked out a victory with 49 percent of the vote over the Democrat, Francine Busby. That was a race, Mehlman said, in which turnout was able to overcome a very challenging environment.
 Still, this is a district where Republicans should not be crowing about a 49 percent victory. For one thing, it has a substantial Republican edge; Cunningham beat Busby 58 percent to 36 percent in 2004. Bilbray campaigned for tough immigration controls in this district snug on the Mexican border, and Busby threw him a lifeline in the final weekend of the campaign when she appeared to be encouraging illegal aliens to vote for her. The 72-hour plan helped pull the Republicans through that Tuesday. But will it be able to manage such extensive operations nationwide if, say, 50 districts are really in contention come Election Day? And what if the White House's campaign-season drumbeat on terrorism doesn't work this time? As Mehlman himself says, turnout operations help -- but only so much. ''Historically, turnout matters at the margin,'' he said. ''If you are losing an election because of an issue or the environment or the candidate, you are not going to win it on turnout.''
 Just left the Urban League,'' Mehlman wrote in a BlackBerry message to Donna Brazile, reporting on his attendance at a reception with black leaders. ''Got nice acknowledgment and applause.'' This was in the spring of last year. Back then, Mehlman kept up a regular e-mail correspondence with Brazile, a prominent African-American Democratic leader who was, in 2000, the manager of Al Gore's presidential campaign. (She later shared the e-mail messages with me.) Mehlman made a habit of letting Brazile know about each of his appearances before black audiences, where he invariably described Republicans as ''the party of Lincoln and Frederick Douglass.'' He told her of his efforts to recruit black candidates for statewide offices around the country, a roster that today includes candidates for governor in Ohio and Pennsylvania and for Senate in Maryland (in the person of Michael Steele, whom Mehlman warmly describes as a ''good friend''). ''Am always going to try to bring candidate or local elected official with me to African-American newspaper ed boards so they build relationships that will go beyond my leadership,'' Mehlman wrote Brazile in another e-mail message. Mehlman gave a speech to the N.A.A.C.P. saying that some Republicans had been ''trying to benefit politically from racial polarization'' and that ''we were wrong.'' Brazile was impressed. She told me at the time that she was accustomed to Republicans making high-flying but short-lived appeals to blacks but said she thought that Mehlman seemed to be on a different kind of mission. 
 A year later, a small group of Washington reporters attended a luncheon in a private dining room at Charlie Palmer, a glistening modern steakhouse within walking distance of the Capitol. In attendance was a Republican running for the United States Senate. The rules of the lunch stipulated that the candidate could be quoted but identified only as a Republican candidate for Senate. The ''Republican candidate for Senate'' spent a good part of the lunch offering harsh criticism of the White House; indeed, at times he sounded like a Democrat. Dana Milbank, a Washington Post columnist who was there, wrote it all up -- precisely following the rules of the lunch, identifying the speaker only as a Republican Senate candidate -- to devastating effect. Mehlman was highly distressed upon reading the Post article, one associate said, and flabbergasted after learning that the candidate was his friend Michael Steele. This was four days after Bush finally spoke before the N.A.A.C.P., after refusing its invitations for the first five years of his presidency. (His aides had cited harsh attacks on him by the organization's leaders.) Bush went, in part, in response to pleadings by Mehlman, and he went a few weeks after the Voting Rights Act was tabled in the House by conservatives. The reception Bush got was tepid.
 Democrats like Brazile no longer view this Republican appeal for African-Americans with much concern, or even interest, and she did not need the platform of a not-for-attribution lunch with reporters to make that view known. Mehlman, Brazile said, was on a roll in 2005. ''But Katrina washed away any illusions that Republicans had something to offer African-Americans,'' she told me. ''I know he's out there every day. I just don't know if his sales pitch has any potency at the moment.'' 
 The problems that Mehlman has encountered in his effort to make the Republican Party the party of Lincoln suggest a recurring frustration of his chairmanship. Mehlman argues that the ''opportunity'' initiatives that Bush has put forward, albeit with limited legislative success -- giving Americans more control over their health-care insurance, setting up private accounts for retirement, school choice -- are the core of the Republican appeal for black support. Mehlman wants Republicans to compete with Democrats for black votes not on so-called racial issues, like affirmative action, but on basic issues of economics and the role of government. He talks about the high-level black appointments Bush has made to his cabinet. He points to the three black statewide Republican candidates running under his watch. He suggests that Democrats have taken the black vote for granted all these years. Less obviously, the White House push on such issues as a ban on gay marriage is aimed in part at socially conservative blacks.
 But is that enough?
 Bruce S. Gordon, president of the N.A.A.C.P., says that Mehlman called him after the Voting Rights Act faltered. ''He didn't seem too satisfied with the behavior of some members of his party,'' Gordon told me, recounting their conversation. ''He said he doesn't have much control over them. But he's the chairperson of the Republican Party: he's got some clout.'' And it's not just the Voting Rights Act. Or Katrina. The war in Iraq is also highly unpopular among blacks. So are the cuts in social programs; and the nomination of judges who oppose affirmative action; and the problems with financing No Child Left Behind, the education-reform bill that Mehlman often cites as the kind of measure African-American parents should embrace. 
 There is certainly a degree of calculation to Mehlman's outreach campaign: it is designed, at least in part, to make the party more appealing to moderate white voters who might be scared off from supporting a party identified with racial intolerance. As demonstrated in Ohio in 2004, it takes only a few percentage points to affect the outcome of an election: with such a polarized electorate, small shifts can produce large gains. But the political calculations go only so far in trying to account for Mehlman's dedication -- ''his maniacal focus,'' as Brazile put it, admiringly -- to attract African-American votes. 
 The black leaders and elected officials I spoke with said they had no doubt about the sincerity of Mehlman's motivations -- that he really was uncomfortable heading a party that is so white and is considered with suspicion by so many black Americans. ''I think Ken is sincere in wanting to see greater diversity in the Republican Party, in the same way that George Bush wants to see greater diversity in the Republican Party and in his cabinet,'' says Senator Barack Obama, the Illinois Democrat, who attended Harvard Law School with Mehlman. ''But what they are not willing to do is fundamentally change a set of priorities, or reorient their party, in a way that is actually going to help the African-American community get ahead.'' 
 J.C. Watts, a Republican former congressman from Oklahoma, who has been critical of the White House in its handling of racial issues, says that Mehlman's efforts as chairman ''are probably unprecedented in the time I've been a Republican. This is his passion; I think it's in his DNA to do what he is doing.'' 
 Mehlman was raised in a Jewish family in Baltimore, his mother a Democrat who voted for Jerry Brown (yes, that Jerry Brown) for president. Mehlman counts the civil rights movement as one of the seminal political events in American history and lists two Democrats (and no Bushes) among his three most influential presidents of the past century: Reagan, F.D.R. and Johnson. ''What he did on civil rights makes him one of the great presidents of the 20th century,'' Mehlman says of Johnson. Mehlman, according to his office, has appeared before 50 black audiences since becoming party leader. When members of the Republican National Committee gathered in Pittsburgh in August 2005 for their annual summer meeting, the banner across the stage read: ''Give us a chance, We'll give you a choice -- Strengthening Lincoln's legacy.''
 Three weeks later, Katrina ripped through New Orleans. Mehlman was on the Greek island of Mykonos that week, attending the wedding of Nicolle Devenish, who was then the White House communications director, and Mark Wallace, a deputy director of Bush's 2004 campaign. Mehlman said he followed what was happening, a little helplessly, from his hotel in Greece. ''I certainly recognized watching CNN that it was not good,'' he said. ''And it required a large infusion of ouzo. Which I had every night. My answer to Hurricane Katrina was Hurricane Ouzo.''
 When Bush ran for re-election in 2004, he drew 11 percent of the African-American vote. That counted as progress; in 2000, Bush drew the support of 8 percent of the black electorate. But in a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted last month, just 6 percent of black respondents said they approved of the job the president was doing. And in a separate New York Times/CBS News poll in July, only 9 percent of blacks said they had a favorable opinion of the Republican Party, a year and a half into Mehlman's outreach campaign.
 Earlier this month, Mehlman and I had dinner at a restaurant he goes to frequently -- Georgia Brown's, a spot not far from the White House that has a large African-American clientele. Mehlman was upset with an article of mine The Times published that described his effort with black voters as faltering, and as he dived into a salad with knife and fork, he argued vigorously that it was wrong to use public-opinion polling as the measure of progress for what he had always said would be a long climb. ''If you had told me in the beginning of 2005 that 100 days before the election we would have African-Americans all in striking distance for governor of Ohio, governor of Pennsylvania and senator in Maryland, I would have told you that is incredible,'' he said.
 Ken Mehlman and Karl Rove started every day of the 2004 presidential campaign with a 7 a.m. telephone call, during which they discussed what happened over the past 24 hours and what they wanted to happen over the next 24. It would be the first of what would be -- by the account of both men -- dozens of daily telephone calls and e-mail messages between the two, going into the night, over the course of nearly two years. Mehlman, who was the White House political director for the first two years of the Bush administration, was officially the campaign manager, and Rove was Bush's chief White House adviser, but Mehlman was the subordinate in this relationship. ''Karl was far and away the senior leader,'' says Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, talking about the campaign. Bush famously called Rove the ''architect'' of his victory. Mehlman lifted an eyebrow when I asked him about that. ''I don't know -- I think a bunch of us were architects,'' he told me. 
 The relationship between Mehlman and Rove -- two men of similar fascinations, skills and ideologies -- has long been at once cooperative and competitive; Mehlman's friends voice private frustration at just how much credit Rove drew for the campaign of 2004, though Mehlman is far too disciplined and corporate to concede any such resentment. But Rove's star has dimmed because of the troubles of the second-term Bush White House and his own legal battles, and heading into the fall the two men appear to be equals in calling the shots on this midterm campaign. And it is Mehlman who is out front -- along with the White House's political director, Sara Taylor -- immersed in dealing with candidates, contributors and consultants, riding campaign managers, overseeing the latest voter-turnout innovation, determining where money and resources will be spent. Mehlman is the public face of this campaign, giving speeches at events, appearing on television, talking to reporters; Rove has largely kept out of public view. And it is Mehlman, rather than Rove, who seems positioned to take much of the blame if November delivers the first big defeat of the Bush political machine since it took the White House six years ago.
 Mehlman's friends say they doubt that he will seek another term as party chairman at the end of the year, no matter the outcome of the election, and that he is interested in entering the private sector, perhaps as a consultant. If anything, this has made him even more intent on maintaining Republican control of Congress; he does not want to be identified with a Republican loss. Still, there is a good argument to be made that the problems darkening the Republican Party this fall have much more to do with what has happened in the building where Rove works than with what has taken place at the headquarters of the Republican National Committee. A Democratic victory in November would add another paragraph to the rather glum second term of the Bush presidency. But it may not say much about the new Republican Party. The G.O.P. under Mehlman has changed the way elections are run and won in this country. That is what Mehlman understood when he told Republican workers in the victory center in Michigan to soldier on, ignore the bad news, flip open their cellphones and call another Republican voter.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Frequent Flier: While Mehlman has performed a high-tech makeover on his party, he still has to raise money the low-tech way: one campaign stop at a time. (Photographs by Brent Humphreys/Redux, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); IMMIGRATION (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); REDISTRICTING (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HURRICANES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); JUDGES (64%); WEATHER (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); TERRORISM (56%); CITIZENSHIP (54%) United States Politics and Government; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Biographical Information

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%) House of Representatives (US); Senate (US)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); KARL ROVE (78%) Adam Nagourney; Ken Mehlman

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%) United States; Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



513 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Dangers Of a World Without Rules

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IT was just another ho-hum week on Wall Street: the Federal Reserve held rates steady, stocks were about flat -- and a hedge fund called Amaranth Advisors lost $6 billion.
 Amaranth and its investors are still sorting out the fund's huge, wrong-way bet on natural gas prices that appears to have cost it two-thirds of its $9.25 billion in assets. In the meantime, where were commodities regulators as Amaranth amassed its positions that in the unwinding have had such an impact on energy prices?
To answer that question, we must travel back to Dec. 15, 2000, the final day of the 106th Congress, when a last-minute provision was inserted into legislation removing regulatory oversight from energy commodities traded on over-the-counter electronic exchanges. 
 The provision was an early Christmas gift to a company that had worked hard to persuade members of Congress that electronic energy exchanges and all the trades made on them should be exempt from regulators' prying eyes. The company was Enron. 
 With one swift kick, the Commodity Futures Modernization Act, as the legislation was called, booted commodity cops off a now-large segment of the energy trading beat. While the New York Mercantile Exchange requires its participants to file so-called large trader reports with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to help it spot manipulation, over-the-counter electronic exchanges do not make such filings. Instead, the electronic energy markets are left to pretty much regulate themselves.
 Many of Amaranth's monster trades in the natural gas markets were conducted on over-the-counter markets or with so-called voice brokers and so were not on regulators' radar screens.
 It is too soon to tell what role Amaranth's gamble had on natural gas prices. But speculators played a significant role in the astonishing rise in energy prices in recent years.
 Such is the conclusion of a compelling Congressional report produced in June by the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. The 49-page report detailed the explosion in energy speculation on unregulated trading markets and recommended eliminating the so-called Enron loophole that put electronic energy trading off the regulatory reservation.
 The Oil and Gas Traders Oversight Act of 2006 would close the loophole. Until last week the bill was languishing. With any luck, the Amaranth debacle may change that.
 The bill is sponsored by four senators: three Democrats -- Dianne Feinstein of California, Carl Levin of Michigan and Maria E. Cantwell of Washington -- and a Republican, Olympia J. Snowe of Maine. 
 ''We didn't need more evidence that there is a big Enron loophole that's gaping in our regulation of these energy traders, but we sure got it'' with Amaranth, Mr. Levin said. ''This is proof that you've got to have oversight.'' 
 Mr. Levin said that a similar amendment was narrowly defeated several years ago. ''We've got a unanimous consent agreement to bring the bill up, but the Republican leader is not going to schedule it,'' he said, referring to Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, ''which probably reflects the power of the oil and gas industry around here.''
 Speculators have been a force in the rise in energy prices in recent years. Supply has not been a problem -- the amount of natural gas in storage since mid-2004, for example, has exceeded the previous five-year average, except for a Katrina-related shock.
 Even so, prices of natural gas have also exceeded their five-year average. This highly unusual situation has occurred as investors, disappointed with middling returns elsewhere, have poured money into commodities. 
 Philip K. Verleger Jr., an economist who runs his own firm in Aspen, Colo., estimates that in the past two years, $130 billion has flowed into commodities index funds. An additional $150 billion has gone directly into energy commodities, he said. 
 ''Commodities as an alternative asset class has always been a great idea,'' Mr. Verleger said. ''But like all investment ideas, everything is good in moderation and nothing ever happens in moderation.''
 Hedge fund traders have been among the biggest beneficiaries of this boom, booking billions in profits -- and pay -- in recent years. 
 But another big winner has been the IntercontinentalExchange, the leading electronic exchange for energy trading. Known as ICE, the exchange was formed in 2000 by seven investment banks and oil companies, including Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, BP Amoco and the Royal Dutch/Shell Group. Based in Atlanta, it has been a public company for almost a year; not surprisingly, its stock has doubled so far this year.
 Traders have flocked to ICE. In 2003, 13.7 million natural gas contracts traded there, with a notional value of $186 billion. Last year, 55.5 million such contracts traded, with a notional value of $1.3 trillion. 
 In regulatory terms, ICE operates its over-the-counter markets as an exempt commercial market, meaning it is subject to the Commodity Exchange Act's bans on fraud and manipulation but not subject to the C.F.T.C.'s regulatory oversight.
 ''The history of the commodities markets demonstrates it is unrealistic to rely on the self-interest of a few large traders as a substitute for dedicated, independent oversight to protect the public interest,'' the Congressional report noted dryly.
 Johnathan H. Short, ICE's general counsel, said: ''If anybody is doing anything inappropriate they would stand to be liable if it were proven that they manipulated a market. We have thousands of people looking at our screens; if somebody sees something unusual we have an obligation to report into the C.F.T.C. so it can take appropriate investigative action.''
 Many of those screen-watchers are hedge funds -- the fastest-growing constituency at ICE. While hedge funds and other proprietary trading outfits accounted for 4.6 percent of total commissions in 2003, they accounted for 28 percent in the second quarter this year. The percentage of commissions generated by commercial companies and financial institutions has fallen during this time.
 Government filings indicate that ICE would prefer to keep the regulatory setup precisely as it is. Noting in its annual report that members of Congress had introduced legislation in the past that would bring the exchange's business under direct regulation by the C.F.T.C., the company said: ''If adopted, this legislation could require us and our participants to operate under heightened regulatory burdens and incur additional costs.'' Such a bill, it added, could also ''deter some participants from trading on our O.T.C. platform.'' 
 WHAT does the C.F.T.C. think of the Amaranth situation? So far, ''it appears that the system is working the way it is supposed to, in terms of the market discipline of creditors, brokers and clearinghouses,'' said James A. Overdahl, chief economist at the C.F.T.C. He is confident, he said, that the commission can spot manipulation on over-the-counter markets, even if it does not regulate them, because the prices of O.T.C. contracts are set by trades on the Nymex, which is under its jurisdiction. 
 But the propane manipulation case brought against traders at BP earlier this year suggests otherwise. The C.F.T.C. did not detect the manipulation, which involved over-the-counter trades -- it learned of the problem from a whistleblower. One former trader pleaded guilty to participating in a conspiracy to manipulate and corner the propane market. BP has denied wrongdoing and is cooperating with the inquiry. 
 The energy markets are too important to the economy and the American consumer to be left to bet-the-ranch hedge fund traders. Isn't it interesting: Enron has been dead for almost five years. But as last week's implosion of Amaranth shows, its troubling legacy lives on.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, is a sponsor of the Oil and Gas Traders Oversight Act. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski/Getty Images)(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (91%); HEDGE FUNDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (76%); CHRISTMAS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%) Gas (Fuel); Hedge Funds ; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%) Amaranth Advisors

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (73%); MARIA CANTWELL (54%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (54%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (54%) Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



514 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Facing Facts on Iraq

 BODY:
While Iraq is a central issue in this year's election campaigns, there is very little clear talk about what to do, beyond vague recommendations for staying the course or long-term timetables for withdrawal. That is because politicians running for election want to deliver good news, and there is nothing about Iraq -- including withdrawal scenarios -- that is anything but ominous. 
 In the real Iraq, armed Shiite and Kurdish parties have divided up the eastern two-thirds of the country, leaving Sunni insurgents and American marines to fight over the rest. Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and his ''national unity cabinet'' stretch out their arms to like-thinking allies like Iran and Hezbollah, but barely lift a finger to rein in the sectarian militias and death squads spreading terror across Baghdad and the Shiite south.
 The civilian death toll is now running at roughly 100 a day, with many of the victims gruesomely tortured with power tools or acid. Over the summer, more Iraqi civilians died violent deaths each month than the number of Americans lost to terrorism on Sept. 11. Meanwhile, the electricity remains off, oil production depressed, unemployment pervasive and basic services hard to find. 
 Iraq is today a broken, war-torn country. Outside the relatively stable Kurdish northeast, virtually every family -- Sunni or Shiite, rich or poor, powerful or powerless -- must cope with fear and physical insecurity on an almost daily basis. The courts, when they function at all, are subject to political interference; street-corner justice is filling the vacuum. Religious courts are asserting their power over family life. Women's rights are in retreat. 
 Growing violence, not growing democracy, is the dominant feature of Iraqi life. Every Iraqi knows this. Americans need to know it too. 
 Beyond the futility of simply staying the course lies the impossibility of keeping the bulk of American ground forces stationed in Iraq indefinitely. They have already been there for 42 months, longer than it took the United States to defeat Hitler. The strain is undermining the long-term strength of the Army and Marines, threatening to divert the National Guard from homeland security and emboldening Iran and North Korea. Yet with the military situation deteriorating, the Pentagon has had to give up any idea of significant withdrawals this year, or for that matter anytime in the foreseeable future. 
 If there is still a constructive way out of this disaster, it has to begin with some truth-telling. Politicians are not going to press for serious solutions when their constituents have not been prepared to understand what the real options are. Republicans will not talk about genuine alternatives as long as their supporters have been primed to believe victory is possible. Few Democrats will advocate anything that might wind up transferring responsibility for this awful mess to them.
 Acknowledging the hard facts of today's Iraq must be more than a political talking point for the president's opponents. It is the only possible beginning to a serious national discussion about what kind of American policy has the best chance of retrieving whatever can still be retrieved in Iraq and minimizing the damage to wider American interests.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); POLITICS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RELIGION (76%); HEZBOLLAH (76%); TERRORISM (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); ARMIES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); FAMILY (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); WOMEN (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%) Editorials; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Election Issues; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (56%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



515 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Easy Being P.M. Sept. 17-23

 BODY:

SWEDEN

The News -- Voters in Sweden rejected the center-left government of Prime Minister Goran Persson in favor of a conservative coalition.

Behind the News -- Mr. Persson, prime minister for 10 years, took responsibility for the election loss and said he would resign as the head of the Social Democrats, who have governed, alone or in a coalition, for most of the last 70 years. Political analysts said the defeat reflected a feeling among Swedes that the government was adrift and that the social welfare system had encouraged too many people to stay out of work. 


IRAQ

The News -- American and Iraqi officials are expressing doubts about the ability of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki to keep Iraq from sliding into full civil war.

Behind the News -- Critics say Mr. Maliki, in office since May, has been unable to build consensus in the country's unity government. He is seen as reluctant to make decisions, in part because of his unwillingness to alienate fundamentalist Shiite leaders and his need to reach out to Sunni groups to end a Sunni-led insurgency. But in public, at least, Bush administration officials say that Mr. Maliki just needs more time.

THAILAND

The News -- Thailand's prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, was overthrown in a military coup while he was in New York for a United Nations meeting.

Behind the News -- Mr. Thaksin had broad support in rural areas and his party won three elections, beginning in 2001. But opposition had grown in Bangkok and other urban areas amid accusations of government corruption and discontent with his efforts to muzzle press criticism. The military, which had staged 18 previous coups since the 1930's, vowed that it would return civilian rule but gave no timetable.

HUNGARY

The News -- Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany of Hungary came under pressure to resign after he admitted lying about the state of the economy to win election in the spring.

Behind the News -- Mr. Gyurcsany's admission led to the worst antigovernmental violence in Hungary since the 1956 uprising, with more than 200 people injured. The prime minister refused to resign and insisted he would push for cuts in public spending, tax increases and new charges for health care and education. Critics noted that he and his party had postponed action on such economic reforms for several years.

JAPAN

The News -- On the eve of becoming Japan's new prime minister, Shinzo Abe came under fire from critics concerned about his conservative ideology.

Behind the News -- Mr. Abe, 52, wants to revise Japan's postwar constitution, which limits the country militarily, and emphasize moral values and tradition in schools. Supporters applaud these moves, which they see as making Japan more independent and a stronger player on the world stage. But critics say Mr. Abe's tinkering risks undermining the values that have made Japan stable -- and wealthy.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Jennifer Daniel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); COUPS (87%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); CIVIL WAR (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); ARMED FORCES (65%); CORRUPTION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%); SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); SWEDEN (94%); HUNGARY (93%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



516 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: The Mayor's War on Poverty

 BODY:
After months of study, Mayor Michael Bloomberg's Commission for Economic Opportunity has recommended ways to reduce poverty in New York, and the mayor has endorsed its report, including remedies like day-care tax credits and incentive payments for better parenting -- novel strategies that could make New York's approach a pilot for how to help the nation's working poor. 
 Mr. Bloomberg deserves applause for listening to critics who have pressed him to pay attention to the city's neediest. That said, specific policies and the money to fund them must be produced, and real results will depend on Mr. Bloomberg using his persuasive powers to attack poverty much as he has done on less sweeping problems like smoking and the proliferation of handguns.
 Federal standards place the poverty line at $15,735 for a family of three, one parent and two children, but that does not take into account the extremely high cost of living in places like New York. About 19 percent of New Yorkers -- 1.5 million people -- are officially poor; about the same number live at poverty's edge.
 Mr. Bloomberg and his panel have targeted the segments of the poor population where they believe they can most easily have a measurable impact: children under the age of 5, adults 18 to 24 years old and the working poor -- about 700,000 people. If the assistance works, and the economic health of these groups improves, resources can then be redirected to help others who are not included in the commission's target group, like the elderly and unemployed.
 The program aims to be a kind of Marshall Plan for some of the poor, and it could make the city a leader in this kind of ambitious effort.
 The commission -- headed by Richard Parsons, the chairman of Time Warner, and Geoffrey Canada, a highly regarded pioneer of antipoverty programs -- seems to have searched everywhere for ideas that work. Incentive payments of $50 to $1,500, which would reward everything from good performance on tests to getting a sick child to a doctor, have been used with success in Turkey and in Mexico City. They also reflect the mayor's affinity for solving public problems with corporate-style tools. 
 The commission rightly targeted affordable day care, a lifeline for working parents. But tax credits and the paperwork required to claim them could be onerous; a direct refund along the lines of the city's property tax rebate would be less cumbersome. Helping young people finish degrees and obtain career training is another worthy idea. But the hard part will be ensuring that there are good jobs at the end of the line -- jobs that offer real avenues for the middle class. 
 That is an area where the mayor could really have an impact. He could speak out not only here but nationally for a raise in the paltry federal minimum wage, and he could convene business leaders to explore ways to raise wages and improve benefits for the lowest-paid employees. Right now, about one-quarter of the jobs in the city pay poverty wages, often without health care or other benefits. That all but guarantees a dead end for the poor, no matter how hard they work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (95%); POOR POPULATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); COST OF LIVING (78%); FAMILY (78%); PARENTS (78%); PARENTING (77%); CHILDREN (73%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Editorials

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); RICHARD D PARSONS (50%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); TURKEY (79%); MEXICO (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2006



517 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CONNECTIONS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: A Crunchy-Granola Path From Macrame and LSD to Wikipedia and Google 

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
The pages are yellowed, the addresses and phone numbers all but useless, the products antique, the utopian expectations quaint. But the ''Whole Earth Catalog'' -- and particularly ''The Last Whole Earth Catalog,'' published in 1971, which ended up selling a million copies and winning the National Book Award -- has the eerie luminosity of a Sears catalog from the turn of the last century. It is a portrait of an age and its dreams. 
 Deerskin jackets and potter's wheels, geodesic domes and star charts, instructions on raising bees and on repairing Volkswagens, advice on building furniture and cultivating marijuana: all this can be found here, along with celebrations of communal life and swipes at big government, big business and a technocratic society. 
Can this encyclopedia of countercultural romance have anything to do with today's technological world, a world of broadband connections, TCP/IP protocol and the Internet? The Internet, after all, began during the cold war as an attempt to create a network of computers that would be resilient in case of nuclear attack. Its instigator, the United States Department of Defense, was at the very center of the culture being countered by the ''Whole Earth Catalog.'' How could the romantic, utopian culture of the 1960's, with its deep suspicions about modernity and its machinery, be closely linked to one of the most important technological revolutions of the last hundred years?
 Yet as Fred Turner points out in his revealing new book, ''From Counterculture to Cyberculture: Stewart Brand, the Whole Earth Network, and the Rise of Digital Utopianism'' (University of Chicago Press), there is no way to separate cyberculture from counterculture; indeed, cyberculture grew from its predecessor's compost. Mr. Turner suggests that Stewart Brand, who created the ''Whole Earth Catalog,'' was the major node in a network of countercultural speculators, promoters, inventors and entrepreneurs who helped change the world in ways quite different from those they originally envisioned. 
 Mr. Turner, who teaches in the communication department at Stanford University, is rigorous in his argument, thorough to the point of exhaustion, and impressive in his range. The basic premise, though, is not unfamiliar. A decade ago the cultural critic Mark Dery suggested in his book ''Escape Velocity'' that the PC revolution could well be called ''Counterculture 2.0.'' Other writers have also pointed out uncanny overlaps. 
 And some of the anecdotal evidence is familiar. Steve Jobs created and promoted Apple as a countercultural computer company, most famously in the 1984 television ad that associated it with the demolishment of a totalitarian Big Brother. Even I.B.M., in promoting its first PC, tried to undermine the computer's association with corporate power, marketing its machine using images of Charlie Chaplin's tramp, who had twitted the gears of industry in ''Modern Times.'' 
 Connections were even made by the participants. Theodore Roszak, whose 1969 book, ''The Making of a Counter Culture,'' popularized that era's doctrines, later asserted that computer hackers -- ''whose origins can be discerned in the old 'Whole Earth Catalog' '' -- invented the personal computer as a means of ''fostering dissent and questioning authority.'' Timothy Leary, the psychedelic maestro, declared that ''the PC is the LSD of the 1990's.'' 
 Soon after publishing ''The Last Whole Earth Catalog,'' Mr. Brand started to write about the computer scene, helped create the ''Whole Earth Software Catalog'' and, in 1985, became a founder of the WELL -- the Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link -- a pioneering online community. ''As it turned out,'' Mr. Brand once explained, ''psychedelic drugs, communes, and Buckminster Fuller domes were a dead end, but computers were an avenue to realms beyond our dreams.'' By the 90's, those realms were celebrated by the magazine Wired.
 It might be argued that so prevalent was the counterculture, and so experimental and energetic were its most vocal proponents, that it would have been surprising had many of them not found their way to the computer revolution. But Mr. Turner demonstrates something more essential in the continuity. 
 First, he suggests, we are mistaken in thinking that the postwar technological world was dominated by hierarchies and rigid categories. Under the influence of the mathematician Norbert Wiener, it became increasingly common to think of humans and machines as interacting elements of ''cybernetic systems'' -- organisms through which information flowed. This also led to a different way of thinking about living organisms and their networks of interaction.
 Marshall McLuhan wrote in 1964: ''Today we have extended our central nervous system itself in a global embrace, abolishing both space and time as far as our planet is concerned.'' Buckminster Fuller proposed the idea of a Comprehensive Designer, a creator who would embody ''an emerging synthesis of artist, inventor, mechanic, objective economist and evolutionary strategist.'' 
 These writers were the patron saints of the ''Whole Earth Catalog,'' their books appearing alongside macrame and carpentry manuals, their ideas presumably brought to life in the commune, where the natural and human world would be bound together, creating a single organism from which new possibilities would unfold. 
 By the 1980's, Mr. Turner argues, similar fantasies were inspired by the computer. It had freed itself from corporate control and ownership; it was also capable of connecting with other computers in communities like the WELL (which John Perry Barlow, a former lyricist for the Grateful Dead, called ''the latest thing in frontier villages''). The Internet, designed to be inherently nonhierarchical, suggested even more grand possibilities, even a revolution in politics and human consciousness. 
 In the 90's, Mr. Turner says, the writers and editors of Wired believed ''they would tear down hierarchies, undermine the sorts of corporations and governments that had spawned them'' and replace them with a ''peer-to-peer, collaborative society, interlinked by invisible currents of energy and information.'' Cyberculture was to be the fulfillment of counterculture. 
 Ultimately, of course, such fulfillment was not to be had. But the consequences of the association were profound. One reason for the heady pace of innovation during the 90's is that the motivation was never purely abstract, but was often accompanied by utopian passions. Software development occurred not just in the private realm, but also among collaborative communities that objected to corporate ownership. Even today's Wikipedia -- the online encyclopedia continuously being written by its users -- can be traced to these ideas. 
 But there were also limitations of vision and imagination. For a long time, cyberspace advocates were reluctant to take the problem of mischievous hacking seriously and could look askance at the very notion of copyright in the cyberworld. There was even a strain of countercultural romance in the ways in which the corporate monopolist Microsoft became widely portrayed as an Evil Empire threatening the libertarian Internet. (This is also one reason that Google, which has turned out to be Microsoft's most potent competitor, made its motto ''Don't be evil.'') 
 Moreover, so messianic were expectations, that many failed to see that cyberspace was not really a different realm from the hard-wired world ofordinary experience, but would become an extension of it: a place where banking, shopping, conversation and business transactions could take place, where the bourgeois world and an imagined frontier would again have to work out their uneasy relations and where these counter-cultures would again face an uncertain future. 

Connections, a critic's perspective on arts and ideas, appears every other Monday.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Forward thinking: Stewart Brand in 1966, with a disc on his forehead. (Photo by Ted Streshinsky/Corbis)
Fred Turner's new book.
 A counterculture classic. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); CANNABIS (77%); WRITERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); COLD WAR (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); BROADBAND (53%) Books and Literature; Computers and the Internet; Books and Literature

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (51%) Edward Rothstein; Fred Turner; Stewart Brand

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



518 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Honda Says '09 Model Will Meet California Diesel Rules

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Honda Motor Company, Japan's third-largest carmaker, said late last week that it would introduce a diesel car within three years that meets California's emission standards, along with a sports car powered by a fuel cell. 
 A 2009 model four-cylinder Honda would be the first to meet Environmental Protection Agency standards as well as stricter California diesel exhaust rules, according to Honda's president, Takeo Fukui. The car has 30 percent better fuel economy than an equivalent gasoline model, he said.
Diesel cars can offer fuel economy comparable to hybrids. They are more polluting than gasoline-powered vehicles, creating harmful levels of soot and nitrogen oxides when burned. Strict air quality rules have prevented Volkswagen and DaimlerChrysler, the biggest diesel sellers, from offering such models in California and in other states that follow California's standards. 
 ''Mercedes hasn't been able to get its diesel certified in California,'' said Philip Gott, an engine technology analyst for Global Insight in Lexington, Mass. ''If Honda is ready to go in two to three years, that's a feather in their cap, and potentially significant for U.S. acceptance of diesel.''
 Honda says its diesel engine differs from that of its rivals because it uses a new nitrogen oxide catalytic converter to generate and store ammonia onboard, rather than adding it separately, as the Volkswagen and DaimlerChrysler systems require.
 ''We hope to take the leadership in environmental technology as we did with CVCC,'' said Mr. Fukui. That 1973 version of the Honda Civic compact was the first car to meet United States low-emission vehicle rules without a catalytic converter.
 Honda also showed a drivable version of the FCX fuel-cell sports car that was first shown at the Tokyo Motor Show in 2005. Limited sales of the low-slung model will begin in Japan and in the United States within two years, Mr. Fukui said.
 Fuel cells, typically layers of plastic, carbon fiber and precious metals such as platinum, create electricity in a chemical process that combines hydrogen and oxygen. Ideally, the only byproduct is water vapor.
 Range and durability constraints and few hydrogen stations have limited fuel-cell vehicles to small test fleets in the United States, Japan and Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (78%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (58%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



519 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: Bouquet of Roses May Have Note: 'Made in China'

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: KUNMING, China 

 BODY:
Americans and Europeans are used to buying mass produced shoes, toys and microwave ovens from China. So why not roses?
 That is the thinking behind an elaborate Chinese government effort to export cut flowers, aimed not just at developing a new business to take on the world but at redeveloping the social and economic landscape here in southwestern China.
By placing the flower industry, along with several others, far from the coastal provinces that have enjoyed most of the nation's prosperity, Beijing officials hope to bring jobs to tens of millions of impoverished, isolated workers in a bid to narrow the income gap between rich city dwellers and unemployed farmers.
 At the giant flower farms here in Yunnan Province, workers earning as little as $25 a month clip roses from huge greenhouses, take them to vast sheds to remove any thorns by hand, and wrap them in paper and plastic for shipment. Roses without thorns are lighter and can be packed more tightly, reducing the cost of air shipment. 
 With the first sustained exports to the United States starting later this week, some of those flowers will end up in Los Angeles, packed with red wine bottles in gift boxes; others will be sold at auction in the Netherlands, where historical pride over locally grown tulips and other flowers has not quelled demand for inexpensive Chinese roses. Almost overnight, growers in this poor, rural province have become big suppliers to markets from Singapore to Moscow. 
 ''Our plan is to become the biggest flower producer and exporter in Asia in 10 to 15 years,'' and possibly the world's largest after the Netherlands, said Li Gang, the deputy chief of the Flower Association, a provincial government agency.
 The government has dedicated a huge effort to making all this possible. Extending its top-notch infrastructure inland, it is building 12-lane roads, sturdy bridges and international airports in this strategically critical area. Elsewhere in China's poor inland provinces, similar investments are helping industries making everything from shoes to electronics to cars. 
 The cut-flower industry is so important a national priority that President Hu Jintao came to Yunnan Province two years ago to call for growth in shipments. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao and his predecessor, Zhu Rongji, have taken a personal interest in improving the province's greenhouses, and the government is offering interest-free loans for greenhouse construction. 
 China is mainly trying to export roses, which have a high value per pound and can most easily be transported long distances with limited damage. Carnations can withstand air shipment but have a low value per pound, and tulips have a high value but must be packed very loosely, which drives up air freight costs so that China cannot easily compete. Lilies can be shipped by air and have high value but must be handled with considerable care, so China is starting to export them to closer markets like Singapore.
 China sells all grades of flowers, and growers here, like growers everywhere, are trying to boost production of top-grade flowers, those that grow tall, straight and without blemishes. But the top varieties of roses -- those that command a premium around the world -- are scarcely grown in China because of disputes over the evasion of royalty payments by Chinese growers.
 The cost of air shipping works out to about 30 cents per long-stemmed rose, a little less without thorns and leaves. By comparison, farms in Yunnan sell their flowers at wholesale for 4 cents to 16 cents apiece, a price that soars to 28 cents each just before Valentine's Day. Depending on the time of year, these roses cost as little as half the price of roses in other developing countries, excluding air freight.
 Yunnan is not only a good place to grow flowers but also a place of particular interest to Chinese leaders because of its sensitive location. Tucked against Myanmar, formerly Burma, as well as Vietnam, Laos and Tibet, Yunnan is close to India. China fought a border war there in 1962, and the area is the main route for heroin trafficking from Myanmar to China; as in Colombia, the Chinese government is trying to encourage cut flower cultivation as an alternative to the drug trade. Yunnan also has important rail and road links that increasingly connect China to southeast Asia. 
 China is concerned that Islamic fundamentalism might extend into its western provinces from Central Asia if the area remains undeveloped, and the flower-growing villages south of Kunming tend to have many Muslims. 
 The central government is spending $200 billion a year, much of it to build roads, bridges, airports and phone systems that link the inland regions to the outside world, ensuring, among other things, that the flowers have a smooth and speedy trip. Refrigerated trucks are being offered free or at deep discounts to farm groups so that fewer flowers wilt in transit, Mr. Li said.
 But in the flower industry as in so many others, China's business practices have prompted other nations to object. Western governments, including that of the Netherlands, complain that many Chinese growers do not pay royalties when they raise internationally registered varieties of flowers. The dispute could prompt countries to restrict Chinese flower imports, and it has already interfered with the transfer to China of new rose breeds that grow with practically no thorns.
 All the flowers being grown commercially in Yunnan are internationally traded species that have been brought in from elsewhere. Growers in Yunnan have produced a few new varieties and registered them with Chinese authorities. But they have made few efforts to register them abroad, where they would be subject to questions about whether the new varieties are derived from ones that are already registered, in which case royalties would be owed.
 Additionally, the government's moves here may violate international trade rules, which bar the use of government subsidies to help cover the operating costs of exporters. 
 Then there is the issue of China's immense productivity. Growers in many countries worry that China may ship so many flowers, especially low-quality ones, that wholesale prices could plunge. 
 ''One of the big dangers in China is overproduction, so this is something that definitely needs to be controlled,'' said Luc Driessen, the managing director for China at Van Den Bos, a Dutch flower bulb company.
 Doeke Faber, chairman of the Association of Flower Auctions in the Netherlands and president of the International Association of Horticultural Producers, said that China was in a position to pose an even bigger competitive threat. ''Certainly they are the sleeping giant,'' he said. ''They have excellent climate and very cheap labor.''
 China's push into the cut flower industry -- which includes plans to quadruple exports to $200 million by 2010, or more than a billion stems -- is mostly of concern to established producers like Colombia, Ecuador, Kenya, Malaysia and Thailand, flower traders and growers said. 
 The United States exports few flowers because of high labor costs, but California produces 15 percent of the flowers sold in the American market. These tend to be varieties like sunflowers that are not easily shipped long distances, however, so American flower production is not likely to be hurt much by China's rise, said Ben Pauley, the vice president of mass markets at FTD.
 The Chinese growers do face some large obstacles, including a continuing shortage of refrigerated storage areas and trucks to keep flowers from wilting and the expense of flying the flowers to distant markets. Even if world oil prices continue to fall, air freight costs will always be substantial.
 As much as 90 percent of the retail price of a rose is added after the flowers arrive in the United States or Europe. Many of China's roses are sold in supermarkets, where the markup is smaller.
 China's influence on the global flower industry may also emerge in a tactile way: the lack of thorns.
 At a flower farm in Si Jie, 70 miles south of Kunming, Shi Yin, 22, takes her clippers into a greenhouse, walks down the long rows of flower beds and selects the roses that will wind up in the gift boxes in Los Angeles. 
 The flowers that meet her approval are taken to a dimly lit shed, where rows of women strip the thorns and leaves by hand. The task tends to be done by machine elsewhere, if it is done at all.
 Qian Lan, a slim 19-year-old in brown work gloves and a soiled cream-colored apron, stood in the shed on a recent afternoon and grabbed at yard-long white and pink roses, one at a time. She clamped a pliers-like device around each stem, about a foot from the bottom, gripped tightly and pulled down, doing surprisingly little damage to the stem itself. Machines with what look like whirling plastic pipe cleaners can do the same job as Miss Qian, but injure the stem more, leaving cuts that can reduce vase life.
 Yet doing it by hand is an ergonomic nightmare with a strong risk of repetitive stress injuries. ''My hand goes numb if I do it for a long time,'' said Miss Qian, a recent high school graduate who earns $25 a month.
 Asked whether a man had ever given her roses, Miss Qian shyly murmured ''yes.''
 Then she blushed deeply, and turned back to her work.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers in Kunming, China, prepare flowers for shipment. Thorns are stripped from roses by hand to make them lighter for shipping. (Photo by Nelson Ching for The New York Times)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (89%); AIR FREIGHT (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); SHIPMENTS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); AUCTIONS (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); AIRPORTS (62%) Flowers and Plants ; International Trade and World Market; Roses; Flowers and Plants 

PERSON: HU JINTAO (58%); WEN JIABAO (58%) Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); YUNNAN, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPE (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%) China; Yunnan Province (China)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



520 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: North Korea to Challenge U.S. on Nuclear Fuel 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
North Korea plans to step up production of fuel for nuclear weapons unless the United States drops financial sanctions and returns to negotiations over its nuclear program, an American scholar with ties to North Korean leaders said Sunday. 
 The scholar, Selig S. Harrison, a longtime Korea specialist based in Washington, said top North Korean officials whom he met with last week told him they intended to unload fuel rods at their Yongbyong reactor and extract plutonium for nuclear bombs earlier than had been expected.
''It is a significant new development because it underlines that North Korea is enhancing its weapons capability,'' Mr. Harrison said in Beijing after returning from Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea. 
 He quoted Kim Kye-gwan, the vice foreign minister of North Korea, who is overseeing its participation in the stalled six-nation negotiations, as saying that the fuel rods would be unloaded this fall.
 Mr. Harrison, who cultivates ties to the reclusive officials who run North Korea, said that he did not interpret the statement of intention to expedite nuclear fuel production as a threat and that the political and military leaders he had met seemed eager to resume negotiations with the outside world. 
 After meetings with several top North Korean political and military figures, he said, they expressed a desire to carry out a preliminary international accord on dismantling their nuclear program.
 North Korea reached the accord with the United States and four other nations a year ago, but has refused to discuss how to carry it out.
 Shortly after the agreement, the Bush administration imposed financial sanctions on North Korea. The administration said the sanctions were necessary to stop North Korean counterfeiting of American dollars and other black market activities.
 Mr. Harrison said North Korean officials had repeated public demands that the United States drop financial sanctions before nuclear negotiations resume. But he said they were also seeking ways for the two countries to resume talks even earlier as a way to build trust.
 He argued that the sanctions, which he said North Koreans saw as an effort to further isolate them and to topple the government of Kim Jong-il, were counterproductive in ridding the Korean Peninsula of nuclear weapons.
 ''The U.S. will have to find a way to deal with illicit transactions without destroying North Korean intercourse with the outside world,'' Mr. Harrison said. ''The policy of sanctions is completely counterproductive.''
 The Bush administration has defended the sanctions as a vital law enforcement action. Administration officials say that they are unrelated to the nuclear talks and that the only significant obstacle to resuming those talks is North Korea's reluctance to give up nuclear weapons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); COUPS (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); COUNTERFEITING (63%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%) Joseph Kahn; Selig S Harrison; Kim Kye Gwan

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); CHINA (79%) North Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



521 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Refund Mixup Part of Larger Tangle

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
When Medicare mistakenly sent premium refunds to 230,000 people who had signed up for prescription drug coverage, the Bush administration said the error had resulted from a rare ''computer glitch.'' But government records and interviews with federal officials show it was the latest example of a strained, often dysfunctional relationship between two of the government's biggest programs. 
 For more than a year, officials who run the two programs, Social Security and Medicare, have struggled to mesh their computer systems so that Medicare premiums are correctly withheld from Social Security checks, and low-income people get the extra help to which they are entitled. The problems are compounded because this information is collected and used by scores of private Medicare drug plans, each with its own procedures and computer systems.
Lawmakers worry that similar problems will occur as millions of people sign up for new drug plans starting on Nov. 15. 
 Several recent surveys, including one by J. D. Power & Associates, the market research company, suggest that three-fourths of the people getting drug coverage through Medicare are satisfied with it. But officials predict that many beneficiaries will switch plans to lower their drug costs or get better coverage.
 Under the 2003 Medicare law, people who sign up for drug coverage can pay premiums once a month on their own, or they can have the money withheld from their Social Security checks, just as basic Medicare premiums have for years been deducted from such checks. 
 Since the drug program began on Jan. 1, hundreds of thousands of beneficiaries have reported problems in getting the government to carry out their instructions to start or stop the withholding of premiums. Drug plans have repeatedly complained to Medicare officials that premiums have not been properly withheld and that beneficiaries have been upset.
 Medicare officials say Social Security and its computer systems bear much of the responsibility. And Social Security says the data it receives from Medicare is often full of errors and does not match the information it already has. Without a perfect match, Social Security officials say they cannot order the Treasury to change the amount of a person's Social Security payment.
 The commissioner of Social Security, Jo Anne B. Barnhart, and the Medicare administrator, Dr. Mark B. McClellan, discussed the problems with the Senate Finance Committee behind closed doors on Sept. 7. After the briefing, lawmakers said they did not fully understand the interaction between the two agencies. 
 ''There seems to be greater confusion, not less,'' Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, said after listening to the officials' explanations.
 In an interview, Beatrice M. Disman, a Social Security official who has been with the agency for more than 40 years, said: ''What the public has to understand is that Social Security is at the end of the trail. We rely on information provided by Medicare.''
 Medicare, in turn, relies on its own files and on information supplied by beneficiaries and the drug plans in which they enroll. Drug plans often must contact beneficiaries to resolve discrepancies in data compiled by the two federal agencies.
 Social Security and Medicare officials said they were working hard to solve the problems, which Dr. McClellan cataloged in a recent letter to Commissioner Barnhart. 
 ''In the past,'' Dr. McClellan wrote, ''my staff has felt that significant concerns they have expressed have not been taken into account by Social Security.'' For example, he said, Social Security officials established ''technical details of the data exchange'' in 2004 without fully considering requirements of the new law or concerns expressed by Medicare officials at the time. 
 In his letter, Dr. McClellan complained about ''the unnecessary complexity'' of the system devised by Social Security, which performs ''more than 40 edits'' on each transaction requested for a Medicare beneficiary.
 Ms. Disman defended these ''quality checks,'' saying: ''We may have information that a person is in the ABC plan. Now Medicare tells us to withhold premiums for the XYZ plan. We have to verify that.''
 Some Medicare beneficiaries change plans frequently, and drug plans are continually sending fresh information to Medicare. But in his letter to the Social Security Administration, Dr. McClellan said: ''We have only been allowed to submit data to your systems for about 10 business days out of each month. Because of your system design, S.S.A. will not process transactions outside of that window.''
 Constance S. Beskind, 80, of Westport, Conn., said it had taken her five months to get Social Security to stop withholding premiums for her drug coverage, provided by Humana. ''It was a nuisance,'' said Ms. Beskind, who takes drugs for osteoporosis and high blood pressure. Humana told her that Social Security was responsible for the problem, she recalled.
 In Craigsville, W.Va., Alma L. Boggs, a 55-year-old nurse who is on Medicare because of a disability, had the opposite problem. Social Security stopped withholding her premiums with no explanation.
 ''I have yet to learn why they stopped,'' said Miss Boggs, who takes 10 prescription drugs. ''When I called the local Social Security office, the operator would not discuss it. She told me to call Humana. The company told me that Social Security quit paying the premiums on its own. It's been a mess.''
 Federal officials have discovered four types of problems. 
 Some beneficiaries asked that premiums be withheld from their Social Security checks, but the government did not act on the requests, so beneficiaries owe several months of premiums. In other cases, Social Security continued to withhold premiums after beneficiaries told the government to stop the deductions. In some cases, the government withheld premiums but failed to send the money to insurers, as it was supposed to do. Finally, some beneficiaries who switched plans are still having premiums for the original plan withheld.
 In a bulletin to insurers, the administration described the situation: ''When a beneficiary changes plans, Medicare sends the updated request to Social Security. In some cases, these requests were not accepted due to data differences. As a result, some beneficiaries are seeing inaccurate premiums being withheld from their Social Security payments.''
 In late August, the administration notified tens of thousands of beneficiaries that they had received improper refunds of premiums and would have to return the money to the government. The letters said the problem had resulted from ''a processing error'' in Medicare computers.
 Officials at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services developed a ''strategic communications plan'' to play down the mistake.
 ''Our messaging will strive to maintain public confidence in C.M.S. and its systems, despite the recent error, and to deter any negative generalizations about Medicare or the Part D program,'' which covers prescription drugs, the plan said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (55%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Social Security (US); Computers and the Internet; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: GORDON SMITH (58%) Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



522 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: In Seattle, a Dream From the Past Has a Hazy Future

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
Before the breakdowns and the budget problems it was a fantasy made real, a declaration of the new arriving overhead in a whisper of white noise. A Swede dreamed it up. Germans helped build it. American tourists flocked when it opened here in 1962 for the World's Fair. 
 Even Elvis rode it. 
And during the four decades after the fair, the Seattle Center Monorail, elevated and alluring along its one-mile course to the fairgrounds from downtown, became something more than just a mighty cool mode of getting humans about: it was an aerodynamic dream from the past that symbolized this city's romance with the future.
 ''It was enthralling,'' said Peter Steinbrueck, a Seattle City Council member who was 5 that day in 1962 when he was among the monorail's first, privileged passengers. ''It was one of the most exciting experiences of my early childhood -- the monorail, the Space Needle and the World's Fair. It is absolutely embedded in my memory.''
 The trouble came later. 
 In 2004, a fire from a mechanical failure sent eight people to the hospital because of smoke inhalation. Last fall, two trains collided, an avoidable embarrassment that, luckily, injured no one seriously but shut down the monorail for nine months. And just last month, right after the monorail was returned to service, two breakdowns occurred, the second of which left about 200 passengers suspended for as much as 40 minutes without a clue as to why. 
 Now the monorail mostly sits, waiting for repair, and affirmation. The City Council will decide this fall whether to spend $4.5 million for improvements that the monorail's operators say are crucial. Some people question whether it is worth saving. Seattle, for all its digital glory and organic swagger, is not without pragmatism.
 ''I'd hate to lose the monorail,'' said Tom Rasmussen, a City Council member. ''But we have to be thoughtful about what we're going to invest in in the future.''
 Seattle is forever wrestling with transportation issues: Should it replace the aging Alaskan Way Viaduct highway that runs along the downtown waterfront with a tunnel that could cost $4.6 billion? Should it extend light rail to the suburbs across Lake Washington for as much as $3.9 billion? Just last fall the city abruptly abandoned an ambitious plan to replace the monorail with a new one that would have stretched across much of Seattle. Cost estimates had soared past $11 billion.
 If the fate of the old monorail seems a precious question by comparison, its advocates say the price tag for fixing it is a bargain that should make any debate moot. Mayor Greg Nickels is including the $4.5 million in his proposed budget. 
 Supporters cite the monorail's role linking downtown to Seattle Center -- the site of the original fairgrounds, the Space Needle and newer attractions like the Experience Music Project. They note that, when it is working, as many as two million people ride the monorail each year. 
 ''The monorail is a Seattle symbol -- an icon,'' Mr. Steinbrueck said. ''I would be very surprised if any elected official pulls the plug on the monorail and dismantles it for $4.5 million in savings.''
 It was not supposed to come to this. The Seattle system was the first full-scale monorail in the United States built for public transportation. Many more were predicted.
 ''If you are a commuter of the future, the chances are you'll be riding monorail in your metropolitan travels,'' proclaimed a 1962 booklet published by Alweg Rapid Transit Systems, the company, founded by the Swedish entrepreneur Axel Wenner-Gren, that built the Seattle monorail. ''When city planners and transit authorities examine their mass transportation problems, the complicated question of how to get there easily, quickly and economically seems best answered by monorail.'' 
 Yet even as new monorails have been built in parts of Asia -- a newer one in Kuala Lumpur is based on the Seattle design -- in the United States they lost out long ago to roads and other less exotic options.
 ''We're still waiting for jet packs to fly through the air, too,'' said Kim Pedersen, president of the Monorail Society, an advocacy group based in California that he said had 4,800 members. ''But at least we've got the monorail technology, and we're ready to go.''
 Mr. Pedersen noted that a one-mile monorail opened in Las Vegas about a decade ago and has since expanded. Ridership there, however, has not been strong, and he says he knows of no other projects firmly in the works in the United States. Monorails, he said, have suffered from their success as tourist attractions.
 ''It just got typecast as a ride,'' Mr. Pedersen said, ''not as a serious transit option.''
 Seattle Monorail Services, the private contractor that has run the monorail since 1994, splits profits of about $750,000 in a good year with the city. (The round-trip adult fare is $4.)
 Tom Albro, the company's executive director, said that trains could be running ''in the near future'' even without the $4.5 million but that the money was crucial for the system to survive long term.
 Repairing the monorail is not always easy. Some parts are unique. After the collision last fall, the scene shop of the Seattle Opera was hired to build new monorail doors.
 ''We got the model home,'' Mr. Albro said, ''and it's the only one in the development that ended up getting built.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Seattle Center Monorail has been closed for repairs since last month, after a breakdown left passengers suspended for about 40 minutes. City officials will decide this fall whether to pay for improvements. (Photo by Stuart Isett for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MAYORS (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (73%) Transit Systems; Monorails; Accidents and Safety

PERSON: William Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%) WASHINGTON, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Seattle (Wash)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



523 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
EWEN, SUSAN DE ARMAS

 BODY:
 EWEN--Susan de Armas. 65, died on September 22 following spontaneous cerebral hemorrhages. She was the beloved wife of Ira, cherished sister of Douglas and Scott Velsor and Joan Petrillo, loving stepmother of Rani Dalgin, Jessica Kahan, Lara Ewen and Britt Ewen. 
She is also survived by four nieces, a nephew, two aunts, and many cousins and grandchildren. Her light will shine forever on those who loved her. Susan's career began at the Ford Foundation. She then worked for 30 years as an educator for the New York City Department of Education and was the founding principal of the award winning High School of Economics and Finance, the first high school of its kind in New York City. She was also the Assistant Director of the national program of courses about economics, the Academy of Finance, that has been adopted by more than 400 schools. After retirement, she was a mentor for principals, assistant principals, and teachers, and she led Sanford Weill Institute seminars for high school students. Her gentle wit, wisdom, kindness, charity, and devotion to the arts, cooking, sports and nature will be profoundly missed by her dearly cherished colleagues, students, family, and friends. There will be a memorial service at Trinity Church at Wall Street and Broadway on Monday, October 16 at 10 A.M. Her family requests that contributions be sent to the Susan Ewen Scholarship Fund, WISE, 227 East 56 Street, Suite 201, New York, NY 10022, which will be used to award an annual meritbased scholarship. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); CHILDREN (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); STEPPARENTS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (57%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



524 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 414 words

 BODY:

I SPY -- At a hearing titled ''The Hewlett-Packard Pretexting Scandal,'' the House Energy and Commerce Committee will hear testimony from people involved in the chain of events at the technology company. Hewlett-Packard has said that it spied on its directors and on journalists to try to determine the source of leaks from its directors' meetings. Among the witnesses at the hearing will be Mark V. Hurd, the company's chief executive and chairman; Patricia C. Dunn, who resigned as chairman on Friday; Ann O. Baskins, the general counsel; and Larry W. Sonsini, a lawyer from the firm of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati who advised Hewlett-Packard. (Thursday.) 


CRIME AND PUNISHMENT -- Bernard J. Ebbers, above, the former chief executive of WorldCom, is scheduled to report to prison Tuesday to begin serving his 25-year sentence in the $11 billion accounting fraud that drove the company into bankruptcy proceedings in 2002. Although the scandal at WorldCom, which re-emerged as MCI and was later bought by Verizon, was one of the largest corporate fraud schemes, some legal experts -- including a judge on an appeals panel that considered the case -- said that the 25-year sentence for Mr. Ebbers seemed harsh. Nevertheless, the appeals court affirmed his conviction.

TALKING ABOUT TRADE TALKS -- The European Union trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, will visit Washington to meet with the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab (Tuesday through Thursday). European nations and others want the United States to offer some concessions on agricultural subsidies, while the United States has requested that Europe ease up on tariffs. The two will also discuss ways to resuscitate global trade negotiations, which were suspended in July.

FOCUS ON KAZAKHSTAN -- President Bush will meet with President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan to discuss issues that the White House says will include the promotion of democracy, the war on terror, energy diversification and expanding prosperity. (Friday.)

MORE METRICS -- This week will bring a fresh snapshot of the housing industry, with reports on existing-home sales for August (Monday) and new-home sales for August (Wednesday). Other reports include the Conference Board's consumer confidence index for September (Tuesday); durable goods for August (Wednesday); final second-quarter gross domestic product (Thursday); and personal income and spending for August and the Chicago purchasing managers index for September (Friday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); SENTENCING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); APPEALS (71%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ACCOUNTING (68%); APPEALS COURTS (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (64%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); EXISTING HOME SALES (60%); DURABLE GOODS (60%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (53%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); WILSON SONSINI GOODRICH & ROSATI PC (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (83%); VZ (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (58%); PETER MANDELSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



525 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; ADDENDA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Accounts

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Two new Honda regional dealer associations in California have named agencies to handle their accounts. The Northern California dealers selected Pickett Advertising, San Francisco; spending was estimated at $10 million. The Southern California dealers chose Secret Weapon Marketing, Santa Monica; spending was estimated at as much as $50 million. RPA, Santa Monica, continues as the national agency for American Honda Motor. 
 R. H. Donnelley, Cary, N.C., which publishes yellow pages directories and operates local search Web sites, consolidated its account and named Cramer-Krasselt, Chicago, as agency of record. Spending was estimated at $15 million to $20 million. The consolidation came after Donnelley, which had used Valentine Radford Communications, Kansas City, Mo., as its lead agency, acquired Dex Media, which had used Foote Cone & Belding, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Miller Brewing Company, Milwaukee, part of SABMiller, further trimmed its agency roster by parting ways with Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore., which had created campaigns for brands like Miller High Life. Miller also recently parted with the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., a unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, which worked on brands like Miller Genuine Draft. Agencies remaining on the Miller roster include Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); DIRECTORY & DATABASE PUBLISHING (70%) Advertising and Marketing; Account Changes 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (93%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (90%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (85%); MILLER BREWING CO (69%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (68%); DEX ONE CORP (57%); SABMILLER PLC (56%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (56%); DRAFTFCB INC (56%); MDC PARTNERS INC (55%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (93%); HNDA (LSE) (85%); HMC (NYSE) (85%); 7267 (TSE) (85%); DEXO (NYSE) (57%); SOSAB (JSE) (56%); SAB (LSE) (56%); MDZ.A (TSX) (55%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (69%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (69%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (78%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



526 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Our Unhealthy Health Care System

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Insurance Horror Stories,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Sept. 22):
A single-payer system that would offer coverage to all Americans? The lobbyists who work on behalf of our $2 trillion-a-year health care industry are simply too powerful to allow the wholesale dismantling of our insurance system. 
 But there is a way to preserve our system, cut costs and provide universal coverage. The Dutch have a system that combines competition among private insurance companies with government control of the cost of services and insurance. 
 Everyone who lives in the Netherlands is eligible for a basic package of benefits at a fixed price, paid for by employers and employees. Private insurance companies compete to sell their plans to consumers by adding a benefit here or reducing a co-pay there.
 The unemployed are covered by the government, and the wealthy can buy boutique insurance plans. Fees for medical services and drugs are fixed, but entrepreneurial doctors can still get rich, not by charging more for their care, but by working more hours a day. 
 Sounds downright American to me! A politician who wishes to improve our dismal medical system could endorse this model without fear of being labeled a socialist or described as an opponent of the marketplace.

Raymond De Vries
Leuven, Belgium, Sept. 22, 2006

The writer, a member of the bioethics program at the University of Michigan School of Medicine, is a visiting fellow at the Center for Biomedical Ethics and Law, Catholic University.

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman has it right -- a single-payer system is the only way out of our health care nightmare. Everyone knows that except the American public.
 The real question is: How has the right managed to convince Americans of so much that is demonstrably not true? 
 Why do we believe in unregulated markets, when over and over again, from Enron to airlines to automakers to health care, the free market has failed to provide the products and services we really need? 
 We will not fix our health care system, or anything else, until the American voter starts paying attention to reality.

David Berman
New York, Sept. 22, 2006

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman cites an anecdote from The Los Angeles Times of a couple whose health insurance is canceled after their daughter develops a life-threatening disease, presumably because the high cost of treatment is anathema to the profit-motivated insurance company. 
 There is a Part 2: The young girl's parents seek medical treatment anyway, and if the hospital is like the one I work for, excellent and compassionate care is rendered. 
 The huge medical bills, which would most likely bankrupt the family, will not get paid, and the hospital will end up shouldering the cost. 
 The hospital, whose state and federal subsidies are consistently being reduced, will then slash and burn to balance its budget, laying off employees and cutting services. 
 Do we need to mention what Part 3 has in store for both sides of the American health care nightmare?

Pietro Allar
New York, Sept. 22, 2006

The writer is a registered nurse.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHICS (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BIOETHICS (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); WRITERS (73%); MEDICAL ETHICS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); BIOMEDICINE (72%); BUDGETS (71%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%); AUTOMAKERS (50%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (63%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (89%) Rayomnd (Dr) De Vries; David Berman; Pietro Allar; Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); BELGIUM (88%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



527 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: A Click on Clothes To Support Fair Trade

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
IS Middle America ready for fair-trade apparel?
 That's the hope of a handful of Internet retailing pioneers who just opened an online store called Fair Indigo, which will rely mostly on the Web and catalogs to sell what executives said was the first mainstream clothing line made in accordance with fair-trade practices.
 Fair-trade apparel so far has largely been limited to items like hemp bags, belts and other low-fashion items sold outside mainstream retailers. Manufacturers like Nike, Tommy Hilfiger and others now post codes of conduct for their manufacturers, barring child labor and mandating legal minimum wages and adherence to other labor laws, for example. 
 But adherents of fair trade hold companies to even higher standards of economic equity for workers, and some say they believe that philosophy has not gained enough ground in an increasingly price-competitive retail environment. American Apparel, a company based in Los Angeles, is recognized as a fair-trade business, but its brand is best known for basic garments like T-shirts and underwear aimed at young urban buyers. 
 Meanwhile, Bono, the U2 lead singer and activist, last year introduced Edun, a fair-trade fashion brand that offers high-priced goods through stores like Saks and Nordstrom. Fair Indigo, however, is aiming for mass-market consumers who want to buy upscale casual clothes at prices they would pay in other stores, but with less guilt. 
 Edun's T-shirts, for example, typically sell for $40 and up; Fair Indigo's will sell for $24. An Edun cotton cardigan for men sells at Saks for $430, while a women's cashmere cardigan will sell on FairIndigo.com for $139.
 ''There are some mom-and-pop operations out there, but they're not selling high-end casual stuff you'd want to wear to work,'' said Fair Indigo's chief executive, Bill Bass. ''And our pricing is in the range of other companies that sell the same kinds of clothes.'' Mr. Bass has experience in online sales. During the dot-com boom, he led the online division of Lands' End, which analysts credit with setting many of the early standards for e-commerce features and performance. Mr. Bass moved to Sears when it bought Lands' End in 2002, and left the company in March 2005.
 This new venture, Mr. Bass said, will go beyond simply promising to adhere to minimum-wage and other labor laws in a given country. ''Most apparel companies say they meet legal wage minimums in foreign countries, but the problem is you can't raise a family on the minimum wage in another country any more than you could do it here,'' he said.
 Mr. Bass's team spent much of last year traveling and researching factories in far-flung locations, looking to make contracts with those that pay workers well more than the prevailing minimum wage and offer other benefits, like on-site medical treatment. 
 That search led him to 23 locally run plants in Peru and China, among other places, that often followed the cooperative model, where workers and management share in the profits. In some cases, Mr. Bass offered to pay the factories more, so they could pass the bonuses on to workers. 
 ''At least one guy I offered this to didn't respond at first, because he thought it was some sort of Nigerian fraud scheme,'' Mr. Bass said.
 The wages that Fair Indigo ultimately helped secure -- with guarantees from the factory owners and managers that the bonuses would go only to line workers -- bumped the production costs, of course. But Mr. Bass said the company had been able to keep costs down because it, too, was a co-op, and because it sold directly to customers. 
 ''We took out that whole distribution layer, which is where the Internet and the catalogs come in,'' he said.
 Fair Indigo, which has about 20 employees, will advertise by mailing half a million catalogs over the next several months, but it expects most transactions to occur online -- thereby saving money on telephone orders. Meanwhile, in an industry where it is not uncommon for retailers to spend millions to create a Web site, Mr. Bass said his site cost less than $80,000 to build.
 ''We've been very frugal, because we've had to be,'' Mr. Bass said. ''It's our own money that's funding this.'' 
 Nonetheless, the Web site is not without innovations, analysts said. Among other things, the company has a patent pending on its zoom feature, which serves as a sort of magnifying glass when viewing fabric patterns and textures.
 The Web site could also bolster sales at Fair Indigo's retail stores, which are to expand beyond the company's single location, in Madison, Wis., in the coming months. 
 Stores are to feature a Web kiosk allowing customers to read materials about the company's mission and information on its manufacturers. Unlike similar merchandising systems by other companies, the kiosk will display customer reviews for all products, whether positive or negative.
 Sucharita Mulpuru, an analyst for Forrester Research and a former marketing executive at Saks Fifth Avenue, said Fair Indigo had ''a lot of promise.''
 ''Pretty much anybody who targets 30- to 50-year-old women, from J. Jill to Ann Taylor, should feel that this company could really potentially disrupt the market and change consumer demand,'' Ms. Mulpuru said. 
 But Ravi Dhar, a professor of management and marketing at the Yale School of Management, said Fair Indigo might end up on the retailing margins. 
 Mr. Dhar said Fair Indigo's concept would appeal to consumers who like ''visible products that let consumers communicate to others the type of person they are.'' And although the company may benefit from the paucity of fair-trade apparel on the market, he said, ''I wouldn't hold my breath for this to be a mass-market phenomenon.'' 
 Marketing could present difficulties for the company, especially since Fair Indigo is banking on word-of-mouth in its early stages. ''If costs are higher, it leaves less money for building a brand and introducing new designs,'' Mr. Dhar said. ''Some of these could be offset by word-of-mouth and other forms of buzz, but the examples of a mass brand built purely through these media are rare.'' 
 Fair Indigo is arriving without at least one element it would have liked to offer: certification of its fair-trade practices. Mr. Bass said he had sought such certification from TransFair USA in Oakland, Calif., an organization that vouches for the fair-trade claims. 
 But TransFair has not yet established reliable methods for certifying apparel companies, said Christopher Himes, the organization's vice president of certification and trade development. Mr. Himes said that because garments passed through so many separate businesses going from raw materials to finished goods, a certification approach could take a year or more to develop.
 Until then, Mr. Himes said, consumers should exercise due diligence when buying from any company that makes fair-trade claims. The willingness of Fair Indigo, American Apparel and others to disclose their practices on the Web could help, he said.
 ''Companies could present a more transparent view of their supply chain,'' he said. ''And even if consumers didn't check, it might be enough to build trust in the transaction, just knowing the firm is willing to open that sort of information to them.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Bass, chief executive of Fair Indigo, hopes to sell upscale fair-trade clothing online at competitive prices. (Photo by Andy Manis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (91%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); ETHICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); CHILD LABOR (70%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%) Apparel; International Trade and World Market; Wages and Salaries; Bonuses; Computers and the Internet; Catalogs; Labor; Apparel; Fringe Benefits ; Sales; Health Insurance and Managed Care

ORGANIZATION: Fair Indigo (Co); Transfair Usa (Orgn)

PERSON: BONO (65%) Bill Bass; Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



528 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: The Last Holdout Reconsiders A Program to Curb H.I.V.

BYLINE: By RICHARD G. JONES

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J., Sept. 21 

 BODY:
On most days, the fringe workers in this city's stunningly vibrant drug trade shout and gesticulate from street corners like hot dog vendors at a ballpark, hawking hypodermic needles they claim are clean.
 ''Works for sale! Works for sale!''
 But the shouting stopped at one corner recently after one of those dealers died of a drug overdose. For his loyal customers, it was a disaster, however briefly. 
 ''It was a drought of works,'' said Maria Lugo, 26, who said that she injects heroin eight times a day. ''People were picking up old needles off the street. They didn't care. They just wanted to get off.''
 That mix of apathy and addiction has led to what health officials say is a public health crisis in New Jersey, where state figures show that more than 4 in 10 cases of H.I.V. infection result from injecting illegal drugs with contaminated needles. Even so, New Jersey remains the one state that prohibits the distribution of hypodermic needles in government-sanctioned programs. 
 That may soon change. In a reversal that even supporters acknowledge would have been unexpected as recently as six months ago, lawmakers may well pass a bill soon to allow needle exchanges in New Jersey. 
 The legislation, to be considered this week, appears finally to have enough support to win passage, 14 years after it was first introduced, and Gov. Jon S. Corzine has said he would sign it.
 To supporters, the bill is long overdue, and the Legislature's refusal to approve it has contributed to the deaths of an untold number of drug users. 
 To opponents, including State Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr., the Republican nominee for the United States Senate, the measure would mean nothing less than a government endorsement of illegal drug use.
 One of the bill's most vocal critics, State Senator Ronald L. Rice, a former Newark police officer who represents a district in Essex County, has compared legal needle exchanges to the notorious Tuskegee Syphilis Study, an experiment in Alabama from 1932 until 1972 in which proper treatment was withheld from African-Americans infected with venereal disease. 
 Mr. Rice has argued that exchange programs contribute to a cycle of social and economic inertia for minorities and the poor. 
 A better use of state money, he says, would be to create more programs providing drug education and treatment.
 ''Those who want a syringe access program are saying that it's O.K. for drug users to continue using drugs and kill themselves because it's cheaper for the government,'' he said.
 It was Mr. Rice, a Democrat, who negotiated an alliance with the Republican minority in the Senate to prevent the needle exchange bill from getting out of committee as recently as last spring. 
 But last Monday, committee members reached a compromise that would allow pilot needle exchange programs in six cities. The program would be re-evaluated in five years under the bill, which would also provide $10 million for drug treatment programs.
 State Senator Nia H. Gill, a Democrat from Essex County who sponsored the original legislation, cited statistics that show New Jersey is the state with the third-highest rate of H.I.V. infection among children, and the highest rate among women. 
 Nearly 33,000 residents of New Jersey have AIDS, according to state health officials, and, in a statement, Ms. Gill noted that almost as many -- about 30,000 -- have died of the disease. 
 ''If there were any other cause of hundreds of deaths of children, thousands of deaths of women and the orphaning of tens of thousands of children -- our Legislature would act on an emergency basis to reduce that cause,'' she said. 
 To those who see the consequences of the drug trade in neighborhoods like South Camden, an exchange program cannot come too soon.
 Several times a week, Jose Quann and Johnny Brown, workers with the Camden Area Health Education Center, drive a modified recreational vehicle through some of the bleakest parts of the city to do street-level prevention and education concerning H.I.V. and AIDS.
 They hand out free condoms to prostitutes. They give intravenous-drug users bleach kits to sterilize syringes. And they offer health services like free blood pressure screenings and new oral H.I.V. tests that yield results in 20 minutes.
 Bouncing over the uneven asphalt along Broadway in South Camden the other day, Mr. Brown, a burly 51-year-old, said that he did not believe free needles would encourage drug abuse.
 ''When they take part in needle exchange, it means they're starting to take an interest in their health,'' Mr. Brown said. ''That's the first step.''
 Mr. Quann, 46, agreed. ''It's a win-win for everybody,'' he said. ''Right now, they're disposing of these things in our back alleys, in our playground where our kids are getting pricked.''
 Although the six cities in the proposed pilot program have not been chosen, both men hope that Camden, whose 75,000 residents, according to city figures, include an estimated 800 people with H.I.V. or AIDS, will be one of them.
 So did a half-dozen visitors to their bus. 
 One of them, a 30-year-old prostitute who said her first name was Summer, sneered at the idea that providing free needles would promote drug use. 
 ''Users are going to use anyway,'' she said. ''But you'd have less people infected with H.I.V., hepatitis.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Lugo, top, a drug user in Camden, N.J., received a kit to sterilize syringes, like the one above, on Thursday in a van operated by a local health organization. New Jersey, to fight the spread of H.I.V., may join the 49 other states in authorizing needle-exchange programs. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Lourdes Soriano, right, distributing condoms in Camden, N.J., for a program that also offers syringe-sterilizing kits to fight H.I.V. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); AIDS & HIV (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (74%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (74%); HEROIN (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Hypodermic Needles and Syringes; Law and Legislation; Drug Abuse and Traffic

PERSON: RICK PERRY (85%); JON CORZINE (72%) Richard G Jones; Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006



529 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Oil Contract Dips Briefly Below $60 a Barrel, as Speculators Bet on Lower Prices 

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS; Carter Dougherty contributed reporting from Frankfurt.

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
Crude oil prices dropped below $60 a barrel for the first time in six months on Monday before rebounding a bit as nervous speculators retreated from the commodity markets, spooked by the improving picture for oil supplies and cooling economies. 
 The market reacted at first to news that Iran was willing to enter negotiations about its nuclear program and that BP would resume pumping oil ahead of schedule from part of its site in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska. But underlying economic jitters, particularly fears about a United States slowdown, also contributed to the price drop, analysts said. 
The price of a barrel of light crude oil for delivery in November fell as low as $59.52 a barrel in New York. By late afternoon in London, it was trading at $60.55 and it closed in New York at $61.45, ending up 90 cents. Oil prices have fallen about 20 percent since July, after being driven up by hedge funds and traders concerned about supply squeezes because of geopolitical unrest and hurricanes. 
 Whether oil prices will drift back up or continue their general slide is a matter of fierce debate. 
 ''The oil market's fundamentals have finally asserted themselves,'' the Centre for Global Energy Studies in London said in a report on Monday. Markets reached a point recently where ''the upward momentum of oil prices disappeared, and it will therefore take a combination of special factors to bring it back,'' said the group, which was founded by a former Saudi petroleum minister. 
 Noncommercial buyers, which are generally pension, mutual and hedge funds, poured money into oil and other commodities in recent years, in part because they thought that the growing emerging-market economies had created a so-called supercycle that guaranteed price increases. In recent weeks, they have exited the market rapidly as prices started to fall when the hurricane season proved to be less severe than had been feared and several producers increased supplies or announced new oil discoveries. 
 The net number of long contracts, not including options, held by noncommercial buyers -- bets that the price of crude oil will increase -- is 22,000, down from 83,000 on Aug. 15, according to an analysis by PFC Energy of the most recent report from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. ''It is a huge reversal in position,'' said David Kirsch, an oil markets analyst with PFC in Washington. 
 Kamal Murari, global head of energy marketing for Dresdner Kleinwort, said: ''The move down that's taken place has been sharp and sudden. The fact that it's moved as significantly as it has means that any forced liquidation has been mostly priced into the market,'' he said. Some of the selling in the oil market may be linked to the recent well-publicized losses in the natural gas markets, Mr. Murari said, as some funds may have been forced to liquidate assets across energy. Most market participants think OPEC will be concerned enough to take steps to stem further declines if the prices fall to $55 a barrel, he said.
 The members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, have been in contact by telephone since their last meeting on Sept. 11 to discuss falling prices but have no plans for an emergency meeting on the subject, a spokesman said on Monday. Questions about the future growth of the United States economy are also pushing investors out of the oil market. American consumers are often referred to by economists as the engine that drives the world's markets, and when they stop spending, other economies are affected. United States home prices are cooling down, giving consumers less confidence and stripping them of paper gains. 
 In the United States, market experts estimate that the falling oil prices will help soften the effect of the weakening housing market. ''The sudden change in oil price direction in the last month has reduced the total cost of oil to the United States economy by $40 billion a year,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, the president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation. The fall in oil prices has added back one-quarter to one-half of a point of growth to the United States gross domestic product, Mr. Goldstein estimates. 
 The immediate impact of lower oil prices in Europe is bound to be muted unless a sustained decline becomes apparent, economists said. At the pump, prices tend to fluctuate less in Europe than in the United States in large part because of heavy excise taxes.
 While prices were on their way up, it made sense to adjust growth prognoses downward, though even then the European economy was proving remarkably resilient to the run-up. Now the picture is even more complex, with Europe poised to benefit from less expensive oil, but facing a slowing of its main export market, the United States.
 ''Do you want to be nudging your forecasts upwards in Europe when the main reason is a possible slackening of demand in the United States?'' said Rob Carnell, an economist at ING Baring in London. ''Personally, I would not be touching them right now.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders at the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday. Institutional investors have bid down prices on news that Iran may enter talks on its uranium enrichment plans and that supplies may be growing less tight. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); WEATHER (77%); OIL EXPLORATION (74%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (61%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (61%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (61%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (61%)

PERSON: Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ALASKA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



530 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Plush Toys Out. Weary Adults In. 

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT

 BODY:
It turns out a business travel hotel is a business travel hotel, after all.
 Some hotels that only a few years ago rebranded themselves as ''family friendly'' resorts have been quietly phasing out promotions and programs meant to attract families with children. One reason is that their rooms have been filling up with more of their core business customers.
But some of those business customers have also been filling out complaint cards about unruly guests. 
 Frequent travelers like Jaime Jurado have noticed a shift. In 2002, Mr. Jurado, a director of brewing operations at the Gambrinus Company in San Antonio, stayed at the Doubletree Guest Suites Times Square in New York with his family. ''They were very indulgent with the kids,'' he recalled. ''When we checked in, they handed us four aluminum-framed chairs with coolers, and they said, 'Take these, please.' They were extremely generous.''
 On recent visits to other Doubletree hotels with his family, however, Mr. Jurado found that the enthusiasm toward families had waned. ''They're still welcoming, but not like they were before,'' he said. ''They aren't handing us free plush toys or folding chairs anymore.'' 
 Analysts also said they were seeing the start of a cooling trend. After a slide in hotel occupancy at the beginning of the decade, which was made worse by the Sept. 11 attacks, many hotels that traditionally catered to business travelers tried to attract families by adding room specials and activities and amenities for children. Now that the economy has strengthened, and business travelers are filling their rooms again, some hotels appear to be having second thoughts.
 ''They won't say they've stepped away from their family programs,'' said Jan Freitag, a vice president at Smith Travel Research ''But in reality, some of them have. There isn't a push to attract families anymore.''
 Kendra Walker, a spokeswoman for Hilton Hotels, the parent company of Doubletree, said her company continues to offer family programs at many hotels operated by Hilton. ''Our research shows that many frequent business travelers extend their business trips for leisure purposes,'' Ms. Walker said. Her company currently offers a free Discovery Kids backpack filled with DVD's and activity books for young guests at select Hilton properties, but not at the Times Square Doubletree.
 Perhaps the best-known example of hotels rethinking their emphasis on families is Las Vegas, which in addition to being a popular tourist destination is also the No. 1 city for trade shows, according to a recent trade publication ranking. In the early 1990's, several resorts began to add family amenities, which included 24-hour nurseries and theme parks, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority.
 ''Las Vegas spent millions of dollars on an effort to reposition itself as family-focused,'' said John Fareed, a hotel consultant with Fareed & Zapala. ''Then it abandoned that focus for, 'What happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas.' '' 
 Hotel chains have not made any such moves yet. For instance, Omni Hotels' six-year-old children's program, Omni Kids, still offers families with young children a series of what it calls ''kid specific'' amenities, like games, books, activity guides and a milk-and-cookies turndown service. But one component of the original program is no longer available: a two-for-one room deal for families with children.
 Caryn Kboudi, a spokeswoman for the hotel, said Omni Kids had ''evolved'' since it started in 2000, and that the company now offered packages tailored to the destination. ''When it comes to kids' programs,'' she added, ''one size does not fit all.''
 Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, which in 2001 introduced new designer cribs at its Westin and Sheraton brands that were meant to attract business travelers with young children, did not follow up by adding a full children's program at all of those properties. 
 Instead, Starwood introduced a redesigned Kids Club last year only at its leisure-focused Westin brand. ''We decided to put our emphasis on resorts where there are families,'' said a spokeswoman, K. C. Kavanagh. ''We want to make sure that if you're at one of our business travel hotels and you happen to be traveling with a baby, that you have the amenities you need. But it wouldn't make sense to have more than that at a business travel hotel.''
 Hotel executives said that if some family programs at business hotels were not dropped altogether, they would remain in name only. 
 ''There are a lot of brands that try to play the family game,'' said Mark Snyder, senior vice president for brand management at Holiday Inn Hotels and Resorts. ''But they can't. Not when you continue to have expensive furniture and Ming vases in the lobby. It's inauthentic for a hotel to try to be something that it's not.''
 The idea that business travelers and families do not mix well resonates with travelers like Steve Hanges. It is not the noisy children that bother him as much as it is permissive parents who ''think it's cute when their children bump into people or knock things down,'' said Mr. Hanges, a technology marketing consultant in St. Paul. 
 A San Francisco-based consultant, Richard Shireman, said he was relieved that some properties are returning to their business travel roots. ''Children were running up and down the halls screaming at 6 a.m.,'' he remembered. ''They were shrieking in the swimming pool at the top of their lungs. They abused the fitness room equipment. ''
 Kate Pocock, a family travel expert who is writing a book about traveling with children in Canada, said business travel hotels were often a bad fit from a parents' perspective, too. 
 ''I think the problem with bringing the kids along on business trips was always, What do you do with them?'' she said. ''Do the kids stay in the room to watch who-knows-what sort of videos while you conduct business? Not an ideal plan. Unless the hotel had a well-put-together program of activities, the kids were often better off at home.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jaime Jurado, center, says hotels now are not as indulgent with his children, from left, Jose, Matthew, Mary Elizabeth and Adriana. (Photo by Toby Jorrin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); FAMILY (91%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); BRANDING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); TRENDS (76%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); RANKINGS (67%); TRADE SHOWS (60%); TOURISM (50%) Hotels and Motels; Children and Youth; Families and Family Life; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (74%); GAMBRINUS CO (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (74%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (71%)

PERSON: Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



531 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Just Across the Border, Mexican Laborers Work Cheap But Fight Hard

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
For an uplifting documentary, ''Maquilapolis'' sure is dismaying. 
 The film, a ''P.O.V.'' offering tonight on PBS, looks at life in the hundreds of foreign-owned factories that have sprung up along Mexico's border with the United States since the 1960's. These maquiladoras (the film's title means ''City of Factories'') are usually assembly plants: raw materials come in, and finished products or components go out. Corporations are attracted by tax advantages and cheap labor, and workers -- many of them single mothers, the film notes -- are drawn to the border by wages a bit higher than elsewhere in Mexico. 
The filmmakers, Vicky Funari and Sergio De La Torre, focus in particular on a small group of women who stood up for themselves and their fellow workers in a couple of skirmishes with the corporations and the government, which as portrayed here has not been exactly vigilant in looking out for the interests of common folk. One fight involved getting severance pay out of Sanyo when it closed a factory because it had found even cheaper workers in Asia. The other had to do with an abandoned lead-reclamation plant whose toxic debris was ruining lives in the surrounding shantytowns. 
 The film is not conventional journalism. There is no attempt to let the industries or government have a say. But the series is not called ''P.O.V.'' -- point of view -- for nothing: the filmmakers set out to show life as the workers see it, and they succeed, with often appalling clarity. 
 In one amazing scene a light rain begins to fall, and a tiny creek that flows through a squalid community of shacks suddenly, improbably, becomes a raging river. One of the women explains that a rain, even a slight one, gives the factories on the high ground an excuse to jettison their wastewater. 
 The filmmakers give the documentary a personality with some offbeat cinematic techniques, and when the women win their little battles, you can feel their pride. But the empowerment vibe doesn't go far because you can also see that their dismal lives won't really improve that much. 
 Take Woody Guthrie's lyric from ''Deportee'' -- ''Is this the best way we can grow our big orchards?'' -- and replace the crops with television components, auto parts, oxygen masks, catheter bags and the other things these workers make, and you have this film's real message.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 30, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A television review on Tuesday of ''Maquilapolis,'' an installment in the PBS documentary series ''P.O.V.,'' misstated its broadcast date. It is Oct. 10; it was not shown Tuesday night.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); DEPORTATION (72%); SLUM DWELLINGS (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (55%) Television; Reviews

PERSON: Neil Genzlinger; Vicky Funari; Sergio De La Torre

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



532 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: High Winds, Then Premiums

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

DATELINE: ORANGE BEACH, Ala. 

 BODY:
Add this to the list of reasons real estate is cooling off in some of the hottest markets: soaring insurance costs.
 Along the coast from Texas to Maine, owners of apartments and houses are being charged huge increases in premiums -- in some cases more than 10 times what they paid last year.
The price rises are part of continuing fallout from Hurricane Katrina. Insurance companies paid more than $57 billion to cover damage from the hurricane and three others last year. And faced with predictions of severe storms for years to come, they are charging higher premiums to try to insulate themselves from future financial damage. 
 The price increases far exceed anything in the past, and consumer advocates accuse the insurers of price-gouging. But Robert P. Hartwig, chief economist for the Insurance Information Institute, an industry group, said, ''The escalation in the cost of insurance is a reflection of increased risk'' from future storms. 
 The ripple effects are also being felt farther north, beyond the once-hot coastal markets in the South. Coverage costs have tripled in some cases on Cape Cod and have risen as much as 50 percent on Long Island.
 Real estate experts say the rising premiums have contributed to the fall in housing prices, which are also under pressure from rising mortgage rates and the inevitable cooling of a too-hot market.
 ''In the South, the insurance issue is having a meaningful negative impact on sales,'' said David Lereah, chief economist for the National Association of Realtors. ''It is less meaningful up the coast to the north, but insurance is definitely becoming a factor in sales there, too.'' 
 The shock of higher premiums is being felt by people like Walker and Shirley Totty, who have lived for 11 years in a 36-unit building here overlooking a white-sand beach on Alabama's small stretch of Gulf Coast. 
 Mr. Totty, a retired manager of an auto repair and tire store in Birmingham, said the insurance premium for his building had jumped more than 12-fold, to $429,182 annually this year, from $34,790 in 2005. 
 His share of the new bill -- about $11,000, up from about $900 -- has created such a hole in his budget that he is trying to sell his condominium and move inland.
 ''If I stay here, I'm going to run out of money,'' he said.
 Not long ago, finding a buyer for an apartment on the Alabama coast, a popular area for second-home buyers, would have been easy. But Mr. Totty's property has been on the market at a price of $565,000 for three months and no one has even inquired about it. 
 ''The market is full of fear because of the storms,'' said Larry Powell, a broker at Meyer Real Estate in Gulf Shores, Ala. ''When you start seeing the cost of insurance in the range we're seeing it, you start thinking: Is it worth it? Can I afford to be here?''
 Farther north, insurance coverage costs have not risen so sharply, but coastal homeowners are paying for heightened hurricane fears another way. On Cape Cod and Long Island, for example, owners have been forced to take on a much larger share of the risk of hurricane damage through higher deductibles. 
 Mike Chapman, sales chief in Boston for Hub International, a national insurance broker, said that premiums on many condos on Cape Cod had doubled or tripled. Deductibles, in some cases, jumped to $125,000 from $5,000. 
 On Long Island, Alex M. Seaman, another Hub International broker, said prices were up 20 percent to 50 percent. For one condo building, he said, the annual premium had risen to $175,000, from $120,000, and the deductible increased to $50,000, from $2,500. 
 The higher insurance rates are also scaring off real estate investors, who generally do not plan to live in the apartments they buy. Typically, their strategy has been to rent the apartment for most of the year to cover mortgage payments and other fees, perhaps use it for a few weeks of vacation, and then sell it for much more than they paid. 
 But the higher insurance costs have forced investors to redo their back-of-the-envelope math. And for many, the numbers are not adding up. 
 ''People were buying condos with the idea of 'cash flowing' them -- having them pay for themselves with rental income,'' said Kay Stephenson, a broker at Crump Insurance Services in Atlanta. ''But now you have the cost of insurance and you have to increase the cost of the rental, and people are just not able to do it.''
 Here in Orange Beach, a resort community with a condominium-lined beach, and in its almost identical twin, Gulf Shores -- both directly in the path of Hurricane Ivan in 2004 -- it is impossible to tease out precisely the degree to which insurance costs have hurt sales. But they have clearly been a factor.
 Condo sales are down 71 percent in Orange Beach during the first eight months of 2006 compared with the similar period last year, down 58 percent in Gulf Shores and down 84 percent in Fort Morgan, a smaller beach town just west of Gulf Shores. That compares with a 10.5 percent drop in condo sales around the country and about the same in the South as a whole, according to the National Association of Realtors. 
 In Florida, sales of individual homes have declined an average of 33 percent, and condominium sales are down 37 percent statewide. But in the cities of Daytona Beach and Naples, condo sales are down more than 50 percent from last year. 
 ''Insurance is killing us,'' said Michael Dooley, president of the Florida Association of Realtors. The effect of higher premiums ''has stepped up big time in the last few months.''
 Mr. Dooley, the managing broker of Illustrated Properties in Hobe Sound, Fla., north of West Palm Beach, said one customer for a $1 million home on a canal near the beach ''walked away from the transaction and a $6,000 deposit when he found out what the insurance premium was going to be.''
 The policy on Mr. Dooley's own waterfront home is up for renewal in February and his agent has told him the annual premium will be $10,600, compared with $5,500 last year. 
 Given the long-term predictions of more and stronger hurricanes in coming decades -- based on cyclical patterns of ocean currents and, to some extent, global warming -- many insurance experts say they expect the new, higher rates to become the norm, rather than the exception, even if no major storms occur in the next year or two. 
 ''I don't think the price is going to go come down quickly, no matter what happens,'' said Ed Kiessling, a senior executive at Frank Crystal & Company, a national insurance brokerage firm based in New York. 
 There are no real alternatives for homeowners. Policy makers in Washington have begun debating whether the federal government should share some of the burden of coverage for many kinds of disasters -- not just hurricanes, but also tornadoes, wildfires and earthquakes -- as it does now in terrorist attacks. But the industry is divided on whether to cede some of its risks and potential profits to the government, and Congress is far from voting on the issue, industry specialists say. 
 In Alabama and other areas in hurricane territory, some condo owners have discussed pooling their money to insure themselves, but have found that raising such a fund can be even more painful than paying high premiums to insurers.
 While premiums on the houses of individuals have doubled or tripled, real estate and insurance people say the cost of coverage has risen much more steeply for condominium complexes, in part because their value routinely runs to the tens of millions of dollars and they represent a much higher concentration of risk for insurers than single-family homes do. 
 Daniel Craven, a lawyer who represents more than 100 condo owners' associations in Orange Beach and Gulf Shores, said that premium increases were steepest on homes and apartment buildings built with wood, because they typically suffer the greatest damage in a storm. 
 For concrete and steel buildings set on deep pilings, with lower floors used only for parking, insurance rates have generally doubled or tripled at the Alabama beaches. 
 The last time homeowners experienced so steep a jump in insurance prices was in 1992, when premiums tripled or quadrupled in Florida after Hurricane Andrew tore across the state south of Miami. To win the approval of regulators for such increases in Florida and a few other states, the insurers told regulators that they had taken steps to avoid similar price shocks in the future, according to J. Robert Hunter, who served as commissioner of insurance in Texas in 1993 and 1994 and is now director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America.
 ''They're either gouging now or they used erroneous assumptions then,'' Mr. Hunter said. 
 At Fitch Ratings, which tracks the financial strength of companies, Jim Auden, a senior manager, said, ''They're trying to price to make an adequate profit.''
 In 2005, the property and casualty industry reported an overall profit of $43.2 billion. Home insurers, despite their heavy losses along the coasts, reported slightly better than break-even returns for the year because of investment gains and profits elsewhere in the country. 
 So far, there have been no major hurricanes this year, and Mr. Hunter said that if the season ended quietly, ''You're going to see such obscene profits, it's going to be shocking.''
 In the meantime, John Miller is giving up on coastal living. After 15 years in Florida, Mr. Miller, a building contractor, has bought a house in the Carolinas and plans to move as soon as he can sell his house in Hobe Sound, near the Intercoastal Waterway. He said he was moving because of an accumulation of problems, including having to cope with more frequent hurricanes.
 But, he added, about 60 percent of the reason was insurance. ''You get sick of all this,'' Mr. Miller said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Facing a 12-fold increase in his insurance costs, Walker Totty is trying to sell his Alabama gulf condo. (Photo by Bill Starling for The New York Times)Chart: ''Orange Beach, Ala.''Condominium apartment building 36 units, 9 stories2005 INSURANCE PREMIUM: $34,7902006 INSURANCE PREMIUM: $429,182

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WEATHER (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); HURRICANES (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); BEACHES (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); TIRE DEALERS (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) Insurance; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing ; Mortgages; Insurance

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (58%) Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (53%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



533 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Homes Post Price Drop For August 

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Home prices fell in August compared with a year earlier, the first such decline in more than a decade.
 The August price data came with a report issued yesterday by the National Association of Realtors that showed further evidence of deterioration in the housing market.
As median sales prices for existing homes slipped to $225,000 from $230,000 in July -- pushing them 1.7 percent lower than in August 2005 -- sales fell and the backlog of unsold homes continued to rise, the report said. The last time prices fell from their year-earlier level was in April 1995. 
 But while the market slide is almost certainly not over, the report suggested that it might be beginning to ease. Existing-home sales have been falling steadily in recent months, but the month-to-month decline in August was the smallest since March.
 Sales dropped 0.5 percent from July to August, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 6.3 million units, the Realtors association said. That compares with a decline from June to July of 4.1 percent.
 ''I'd expect home sales to continue softening, but perhaps not at the dramatic pace we saw a little earlier,'' said Celia Chen, director of housing economics at Moody's Economy .com. ''The markets are just very overvalued right now.''
 If the sales trends are leveling off, however, prices still appear set to fall further. 
 David A. Lereah, chief economist for the Realtors association, said the price drop was a taste of what the market should expect in the coming months. But he predicted that prices would probably improve next year.
 ''We're in for a ride right now,'' Mr. Lereah said. ''This is the first of many price corrections for the remaining months of the year -- for at least the next three or four months.'' 
 Until this year, the housing sector had enjoyed a boom of more than half a decade, chalking up ever higher numbers of sales and rapidly rising prices. But it has been shrinking under the impact of rising mortgage rates and a slowing economy.
 As the Realtors and economists see it, falling prices may be just what the housing market needs before sales can revive again. In some regions of the country last month, sales rose where prices fell. In the Northeast, sales rose 1.9 percent as the median price fell 3.9 percent, to $271,000. In the Midwest the pattern was the same: sales were up 0.7 percent and the median price was down 1.1 percent, to $176,000.
 The opposite occurred in the West. While prices have held steady there this summer, sales have fallen. In August, sales dropped 2.3 percent while the median price rose 0.3 percent, to $345,000. Compared with a year earlier, sales have fallen 22.8 percent. 
 ''Something's going to give in the West,'' Mr. Lereah said. ''The correction has not occurred in the West yet. Sellers are stubborn there.''
 In the South, sales volume in August was 0.8 percent lower than July 2006 and 7.4 percent lower than August 2005. The median existing-home price fell 2.6 percent, to $184,000, from July to August.
 By comparison, data from the federal government has shown prices leveling off for some time. A report from the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight released this month showed that prices nationwide increased 1.2 percent in the second quarter, the weakest gain in almost seven years.
 Some economists prefer the government's price data because it tries to adjust for changes in the quality and size of homes sold from one year to the next.
 The Realtors association numbers do not take into account incentives by sellers, which could skew their median price numbers higher.
 At the end of August, there were so many unsold homes on the market that it would take seven and a half months to sell them all at the current sales pace. The association said that was the biggest backlog since April 1993.
 Economists said that as the number of unsold homes on the market continued to rise, sellers would have little choice but to cut prices.
 ''With the supply of unsold homes reaching yet another record high, there is only one way this market can clear, and that is through even further price falls,'' wrote Dimitry Fleming, an economist for ING Bank. For all the worries about declining prices, though, Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist with MFR, said the price decline in August should be viewed in the context of a 111 percent increase in the median single-family home price over the last 11 years.
 ''The underlying trend here is one of stable to modestly lower prices after the sharp gains seen for many years,'' he wrote in a research note. ''It should not be a huge shock that we are seeing a price correction.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: On the market in Newton, Mass. The median price for existing homes nationwide was $225,000 in August, down 1.7 percent from a year earlier. (Photo by Michael Fein/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%) National Assn of Realtors

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



534 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Critics of Michigan's Skybox Plan Fighting Long Odds

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
At 4-0, Michigan's football team is enjoying its best start since 1999, but there is rancor within the ranks. 
 It is not among Wolverines players, who defeated Wisconsin, 27-13, on Saturday and will play at Minnesota this weekend. It was, however, evident last week around the eight-member Board of Regents, the elected officials who govern the university.
Six speakers at Friday's board meeting supported the administration's plan to add luxury boxes to the 107,501-seat Michigan Stadium as part of a $226 million renovation. Two supporters invoked the name of Fielding H. Yost, a legendary coach and athletic director. Yost directed the design of the stadium, which opened in 1927. 
 John U. Bacon, an author, said, ''Fielding Yost was a dyed-in-the-wool capitalist'' who would have supported the plan to add the suites and other exclusive seating that would sell for premium prices.
 John Kryk, who described himself as a Michigan football historian, said, ''Somewhere, Yost is cringing'' over the opposition to luxury boxes. He said Yost ''never intended for the stadium to remain for all time a single-deck bowl.''
 Sitting silently nearby in the conference room on the Ann Arbor campus was another interested fan: Fielding H. Yost III, a slightly built and bearded grandson of Yost. He opposes the luxury boxes but was not allowed to speak to the board.
 Interviewed outside the meeting, Yost -- who lives in Midland, Mich., and renovates homes -- said that adding luxury boxes while taking away bench seats was ''a finger in the eye about social levels; it's about elitism and stratification.''
 Although the board voted, 5-3, last spring to hire an architect to plan boxes and additional renovations, it still must approve the design and financing. The design vote could come in November, and the financing vote is expected early next year. There will be other opportunities for supporters and opponentsto address the board.
 Yost said he supported an activist group called Save the Big House, which unveiled an alternate plan last week that it said could finance renovations throughout the stadium -- an argument also made by those who favor luxury boxes -- by adding 15 rows of bleachers at the top of the bowl at a cost of $66 million without building private boxes.
 This plan would increase capacity to 117,001 while improving aisles, facilities for the disabled, concourses and restrooms, according to John Pollack, who has organized the opposition through a Web site, savethebighouse.com.
 Yost says he has a master's degree from Michigan in public policy and has two season tickets in Row 80 on the 48-yard line. ''I'm dismayed with the luxury boxes,'' he said. ''There are alternatives that need to explored. This is about the denigrating role of money in athletics.''
 Yost was born in 1948, two years after his grandfather died. He said he was not sure what his grandfather would have wanted, but he knows his own mind. He said luxury boxes ''remind me of the old Romans with their bread and circuses.''
 William Wilson, an alumnus and the sole opponent of the plan, told the board that the selections of speakers ''was jimmied'' against Yost and other foes.
 But Julie A. Peterson, associate vice president for media relations and public affairs, disagreed. ''It's on a first-come, first-serve basis,'' Peterson said. ''Those slots filled up pretty quickly. The process was straightforward.''
 David A. Brandon, the regent most supportive of the luxury box plan, said the suites would finance upgrades to the stadium, help pay for other sports and keep Michigan competitive in athletic recruiting.
 ''Stadiums around the country are not being renovated to include club and enclosed seating because it is a bad economic decision to do so!'' Brandon wrote in an e-mail message. ''The business case is a good one.''
 Brandon said there was strong support for renovation among alumni and ticket-holders. 
 Laurence B. Deitch, the regent most opposed to the plan, said in an interview that there could be widespread opposition when details become public.
 ''It is risky and a bad economic proposition,'' said Deitch, who predicted that the cost would exceed the projected $226 million. ''People have gotten dug in on this because it's about winning and losing.''
 He said the state's struggling economy, particularly the decline in the automobile industry, made the university look elitist and disconnected.
 Philip Nussel, an alumnus who spoke to the regents in favor of the project, said he visited Ohio State and saw its new luxury boxes. ''It was sickening,'' he said. ''They were so far ahead of us. I was jealous.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Renovations to the 107,501-seat Michigan Stadium have begun, but a plan to build luxury boxes has been called elitist by some alumni. (Photo by John T. Greilick/The Detroit News via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Finances

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (90%) University of Michigan

PERSON: Joe Lapointe

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



535 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: City Planners Recommend 8% Reduction in Atlantic Yards

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The City Planning Commission is recommending that the developer Forest City Ratner reduce the size of its $4.2 billion Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn by 8 percent, eliminating about 600 apartments but leaving the tallest tower in the complex untouched.
 At its meeting yesterday, the commission said the developer should cut back the massive project, which stretches three long blocks along Atlantic Avenue from Flatbush to Vanderbilt Avenues, from 8.65 million square feet to roughly 8 million square feet. The Atlantic Yards proposal embraces a glass-walled arena for the New Jersey Nets basketball team, more than 6,000 apartments, 16 towers and a hotel on 22 acres near Downtown Brooklyn. 
The recommendations do not call for the developer to reduce the height of the project's tallest building, as the Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, many civic leaders and local residents had hoped. Known as Miss Brooklyn -- its architect, Frank Gehry, described it as a bride with flowing veils -- the 650-foot tower would loom about 10 stories over the nearby Williamsburgh Savings Bank building, a 512-foot clock tower that has dominated the borough's skyline for decades. 
 The planning commission concluded that Miss Brooklyn's height was appropriate for the location of the building, at the busy intersection of Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues. But the bank building, which is being converted into condominiums, did figure into a recommendation that the developer reduce the height of a different tower, on an islandlike parcel across Flatbush Avenue from Miss Brooklyn. Planners said that tower should be cut by 100 feet to a height of 250 feet, because it would otherwise ''detract'' from views of the clock tower.
 The recommendations also called on the developer to reduce the height of two more buildings and to increase the amount of open space to 8 acres from 7 acres.
 The planning commission does not have a formal role in the review process under way with the state's Economic Development Corporation. But planners have been working closely with Forest City Ratner on refining the Atlantic Yards plan in response to critics who fear that the project would overwhelm the surrounding brownstone neighborhoods and clog an already congested area with traffic. It was not clear if the recommendations would be legally binding even if the developer accepted them.
 ''City Planning has been enormously helpful throughout the development process,'' said Joe DePlasco, a spokesman for Forest City Ratner, the developer of several major projects, including a new headquarters in Midtown for The New York Times Company. ''We look forward to reviewing their most recent recommendations and working with them to ensure the overall success of the Atlantic Yards project.'' The developer is expected to embrace the recommendations. As one executive who works with Forest City put it, ''A lot of this was precooked.'' Critics and supporters had long anticipated that Forest City would make cuts in the project in order to make it more politically palatable. 
 Many of the recommendations pleased Mr. Markowitz, the borough president, even if they did not call for reducing the height of Miss Brooklyn. But critics say the city did not go far enough.
 ''They're calling for the maximum visibility of the Williamsburgh Savings Bank, and that was my intention as well,'' Mr. Markowitz said. ''The good news here is that the city is saying it's the right project at the right time and at the right location.''
 He said he would continue to ''fine-tune the project so that it maximizes the benefits and minimizes the impacts.'' Forest City has promised that half of the 4,500 rental apartments in the complex would be reserved for low-, moderate- and middle-income residents. The planners recommended yesterday that 30 percent of the units built in the first phase be set aside for subsidized housing.
 City Councilwoman Letitia James, who represents the neighborhood, said the reductions were ''inadequate'' and would only help to ''further the Manhattanization of Brooklyn.''
 She said she regretted that the planners failed to discuss how to mitigate the traffic problems brought on by the arena and the dense housing development, or the extensive use of public subsidies and eminent domain.
 Daniel Goldstein, a spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, called the reductions ''insignificant.''
 ''Even if it was scaled back by 50 percent, it would still be one of the most dense residential complexes in the country,'' he said. ''Whether it's 5 percent or 50 percent, it does not make any difference, as long as they continue to use eminent domain.''
 From the beginning of the project three years ago, Atlantic Yards has had the support of Gov. George E. Pataki, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Mr. Markowitz and others. Under those circumstances, critics like Mr. Goldstein said, no project is going to come under the proper level of scrutiny.
 Councilman Bill DeBlasio of Park Slope, who calls himself a project supporter, said more changes were needed. ''We need to go farther than what City Planning has called for,'' he said. ''I think we can reduce the height, while continuing to maintain the affordable housing component.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: An illustration of the Atlantic Yards project includes the tower known as Miss Brooklyn, center. The Williamsburgh Savings Bank is at far left. (Photo by Forest City Ratner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); BASKETBALL (75%); EMINENT DOMAIN (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%) Eminent Domain; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (57%) City Planning Commission (NYC); Forest City Ratner; Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn (Orgn)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (61%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (61%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%)

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; Bruce C Ratner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (71%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Atlantic Yards (Brooklyn)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



536 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Where Gorillas and the Antelope Play

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: BAYANGA, Central African Republic 

 BODY:
The first thing they tell you here is not to play with the gorillas or the elephants.
 A young male elephant gored a young Italian woman here when he attempted to play with her. And if you creep too close to the gorillas, a 375-pound silverback will charge you and, if you're lucky, stop inches from you and slap the ground in rage.
But even if you can't play with the animals, you can ogle them -- and there are few places in the world as good for that as this remote jungle where the Central African Republic, Cameroon and the Congo Republic come together. And now the three countries have joined forces to preserve this jungle by establishing adjoining national parks that cover an area the size of Rhode Island and Delaware combined. 
 It's part of a growing trend that deserves strong support from the West: poor countries seeking economic opportunities by protecting nature rather than pillaging it. The grandest and most unlikely of these experiments is this one, for the Central African Republic may be the single most wretched country in the world: life expectancy is 38, and every year it falls by another six months. One-fifth of children die by the age of 5. Outside the capital, government is only a rumor.
 Yet while many national parks in Africa exist primarily on paper, this one is real. Game wardens patrol vigorously: they pursue poachers across international borders, and seized 70,000 snares last year alone.
 This is the only place in the world to see western lowland gorillas (even more elusive than the mountain gorillas of Rwanda). Casey Parks, the student journalist traveling with me, and I spent two hours with 13 gorillas.
 We stayed at least 30 feet away to avoid being charged, but there was one moment when our guide froze and whispered to us that a female was asking the silverback to charge us. Fortunately, the silverback adopted a typical husband's approach in dealing with a demanding wife: he pretended he didn't hear.
 The World Wildlife Fund is nurturing this attempt to develop ecotourism. It has a team, including American student volunteers, hanging out with gorillas all day every day, habituating them so that tourists can see them.
 It's a delicate balance, for the tourists could bring diseases that would kill gorillas. It may also be more difficult for a silverback to entice females into his harem if humans are around. Yet if the gorillas can lure rich Westerners here, ecotourism could become a more sustainable economic pillar than slash-and-burn logging. For now, fewer than 1,000 foreigners visit the park each year.
 Many Africans resent the parks, partly because they allocate vast resources to saving animals for rich foreigners to enjoy -- in regions where humans routinely die for lack of a few dollars.
 ''That's where conservation got it wrong in the past,'' said Chloe Cipolletta, an Italian who has lived with the gorillas for the last nine years. It's crucial, she said, that conservation programs benefit people as well as animals, and so the WWF has hired 31 of the local Bayaka Pygmies as trackers and guides, and others earn money by showing tourists how to catch antelope with nets.
 The first night I arrived here, crossing a river from Cameroon in a canoe and then jouncing over ruts to get to a Pygmy village, I was led to somebody I thought was a local chief -- and then he stepped from the darkness and turned out to be a tall white man who greeted me in very American English. Louis Sarno, originally from New Jersey, explained that he once heard Pygmy music on the radio and was so entranced that he made a visit 20 years ago -- and stayed.
 Mr. Sarno married a local woman and learned the language. He endures bouts with malaria, goes on weeks-long hunting trips in the jungle with the others, and fits in remarkably well (except that he's a lousy spear hunter).
 Now he has become a fierce advocate for the ''forest people,'' as Pygmies often prefer to be called. Mr. Sarno notes that logging has benefited corrupt leaders while doing nothing for the villagers, and so he welcomes the ecotourism experiment as a last best hope for local people. 
 Africa can be a grim continent, and the news usually focuses on genocide, corruption and disease. But in the audacious dream to preserve this rain forest and the way of life of people in it, you see Africa's glory, fighting to survive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); MAMMALS (90%); PRIMATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); ECOTOURISM (89%); WILDLIFE (78%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TRENDS (73%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (66%); VOLUNTEERS (50%) Wildlife Sanctuaries; Pygmies ; Poaching

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (94%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAMEROON (79%); RWANDA (79%) Central African Republic

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



537 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Panel Urges Basic Coverage On Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
A federal advisory panel said Monday that Congress should take immediate steps to guarantee that all Americans have access to affordable health care by 2012.
 As a first step, the 14-member panel, appointed by the comptroller general of the United States, said, ''A national public or private program must be established to ensure protection against very high out-of-pocket medical costs for everyone.'' 
The panel, the Citizens' Health Care Working Group, said Congress should create an independent ''public-private entity'' to define a basic set of health care benefits and services for all Americans.
 While leaving many details to be worked out, the panel declared, ''It should be public policy, written in law, that all Americans have affordable access to health care.''
 The panel was created by the 2003 law that added a drug benefit to Medicare. Under the law, President Bush has 45 days to comment on the recommendations and offer a report to Congress. Five Congressional committees are then supposed to hold hearings on the proposals.
 The citizens' group went to great lengths to solicit opinions from average Americans, in addition to health experts. It tried to forge a consensus after listening to views expressed by more than 7,000 people at 98 community meetings in 37 states.
 ''This is a fresh approach,'' said Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, who wrote the panel charter with Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon.
 The number of uninsured Americans keeps growing despite fluctuations in the economy, and the report from the working group increases the chances that health care will be a major issue as candidates gear up for the 2008 presidential race. 
 Census Bureau figures show that 39.7 million people lacked health insurance in 1993, when President Bill Clinton took office. The number rose, to 44.3 million in 1998, and then began to decline. Since 2001, when President Bush took office, the number of uninsured has increased by more than 5 million, to 46.6 million in 2005.
 The panel did not say how much its proposals would cost or how to pay for them. But, it reported, many consumers said they were ''willing to pay more to ensure that all Americans are covered.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); CENSUS (69%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Law and Legislation; Medicare; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

PERSON: RON WYDEN (58%); ORRIN HATCH (57%); BILL CLINTON (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



538 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3628 words

HEADLINE: Delivering Small-Town Justice, With a Mix of Trial and Error

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

DATELINE: DUANE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Gary Betters thought he understood the law as well as any average American. A school psychologist, he wanted $1,588.60 he said the nearby village of Malone owed him for helping run a summer recreation program. When he brought a small claim in Duane Town Court, he expected that the judge would listen to both sides, then rule.
 Like many others who go to court across New York State, he got a crash course in the strange ways of small-town justice.
Although no one showed up to defend the village, Justice William J. Gori started the trial anyway. Although the judge had Mr. Betters testify at length, he neglected to have him swear to tell the truth. And although Justice Gori told Mr. Betters he had another week to submit more evidence, the judge went ahead and decided the case anyway. 
 Mr. Betters received the news in a letter from the court: his case had been dismissed. No reason was given. ''I cannot understand how a defendant can win when they don't even show up,'' he said in an interview.
 The State Commission on Judicial Conduct figured out how. Justice Gori, it seems, had gone to the village offices in Malone before the trial, interviewed the village's chief witness, then informed the village lawyer that he had decided to throw out the case.
 Justice Gori told the commission that he had never heard of the elementary legal rule that bars a judge, except in the most extraordinary circumstances, from secret contact with one side of a case. ''It's not even explained in my manual,'' he said.
 An unfamiliarity with basic legal principles is remarkably common in what are known as the justice courts, legacies of the Colonial era that survive in more than 1,000 New York towns and villages. 
 For generations, justices have hailed them as ''poor man's courts,'' where ordinary people can get simple justice with little formality or expense. But there are few more vivid spots to view their shortcomings than here in one of New York's poorest corners: Franklin County, a place of rugged beauty on the Canadian border where only one of the 32 local justices is a lawyer.
 The county's justices have repeatedly drawn the attention of state judicial conduct officials, with 15 publicly disciplined since the late 1970's, some twice. Justice Gori's errors pale in comparison with those of some others: One justice freed a rape suspect on bail as a favor to a friend. Another sentenced a welfare recipient to 89 days in jail after she failed to pay a $1.50 cab fare. Franklin County justices have presided drunk, fixed cases and denied lawyers to defendants. One failed to appoint a lawyer for a 19-year-old mentally retarded alcoholic. 
 Here in Duane, a speck of a town in the center of the county, Justice Gori is in many ways a typical small-town New York justice.
 A bricklayer and a former dog trainer with a high school education, he is an approachable man of 59, in jeans hitched up with suspenders. On Thursday nights he ambles down to the volunteer firehouse to hold court, such as it is. His grasp of the law is somewhat shaky. His temper sometimes gets the better of him. 
 He has no judge's bench, few law books and no court clerk. He is something of an accidental judge, occupying the position for nearly a decade largely because no one else wants it, people here say. Although state officials have reprimanded him twice for fundamental lapses in the conduct of his job, few Duane voters seemed to know or care. ''Nobody's ever asked a question about it,'' Justice Gori said.
 He seems well-intentioned enough. Like many justices, he describes his job as public service, and he says he studies the law for several hours every week. 
 But there is evidence that that may not be enough. When the judicial conduct commission called Justice Gori to account for his handling of Mr. Betters's case, his defense was startling, a transcript of the hearing shows. His own lawyer blamed the state for running the justice courts as it does: Judges, he said, with so little training -- six days of classes, and a 12-hour refresher course once a year -- could not possibly know the basic rules for handling a lawsuit.
 The county's district attorney, Derek P. Champagne, says that when he took office five years ago, he had to drop hundreds of criminal cases because justices had failed to take any action for so long. Mr. Champagne says his staff of four full-time prosecutors is too small even to regularly visit the justice courts, which are separated by great distances. 
 Franklin County is bigger than Rhode Island. But it has only one higher court judge, in the county court in Malone. So the part-time town and village justices -- plumbers, meat cutters and school bus drivers -- are often the last word on the law here, with the power to issue search warrants, conduct trials, put some people in jail and let friends go free.
 ''The reality is, you basically have to have no qualifications other than be a voter to put someone in jail, and that's a very alarming situation,'' Mr. Champagne said. ''To throw a layperson -- some of whom don't have a high school degree -- in that position is just a recipe for disaster.''

A Night in Court
 ''Town of Duane Justice Court is now in session,'' Justice Gori announced. 
 Four bare fluorescent bulbs provided the only light in the roughly finished meeting room that becomes a court every few weeks. There was a portable bar against one wall, and a glimpse of the firehouse kitchen, with its jumble of old soda bottles and coffeepots. The American flag tacked to the wall had to be pulled back to allow the judge to get at the thermostat on this icy winter night.
 At two pushed-together folding tables sat a nervous teenager, in court to answer speeding tickets, next to his clench-jawed father. A state trooper, there as chief witness against the teenager, doubled as the court security officer. 
 And behind a battered wooden desk was Justice Gori. Fleshy, with eyes that water at sentimental moments, he was wearing an open brown shirt, his T-shirt visible at the neck. 
 The court computer that he bought with his own money was at home; it took him two months to figure out how to turn the thing on, he said. He had no judge's robe. They are too expensive, he said. His judicial salary is $3,750 a year.
 ''There are certain things that are lacking,'' he said. 
 He moved to Duane, population 159, from Saratoga County in his 40's after a divorce, enticed by the chance to hunt with his dogs. 
 ''Maybe it's the solitude,'' said Justice Gori, who has since remarried. ''You get up here at night, when the highway quiets down, you don't hear anything.'' 
 Yet people cross paths in Franklin County in unlikely and sometimes volatile ways: Mohawk Indians, the owners of lavish new vacation homes, Adirondack tourists and fishermen, and others who cross the border on less savory business. Drugs and domestic violence seem to be on the rise, and state prisons are big employers.
 When Justice Gori moved here about 20 years ago, the prison construction boom offered jobs. After years as a dog trainer, ''I picked up my tools and went back to the bricklaying, mason trade,'' he said. 
 Like a lot of newcomers to small towns, he wanted to get involved. But he didn't like the sight of blood, so that ruled out volunteer firefighting. He was attracted instead to the court in the weathered firehouse. ''Law has always been kind of an interesting thing to me,'' he said.
 That interest, however, does not include a fascination with the technicalities that occupy lawyers. ''If you look at the laws, it's all common sense,'' he said. 
 Most of his work, since his first election in 1997, has been traffic cases. If there were many serious crimes in Duane, he said, they may have gone unnoticed out in the vast Adirondack nights. ''Either we're a nice, quiet town or two people duked it out and one won and one lost, they got up and shook hands and nobody knows about it,'' he said. 
 There have been a handful of serious cases, the first phases of some felony prosecutions. Once, state troopers tracked him down on a bricklaying job. They said a local man was growing marijuana, and wanted a warrant to search his property. In the dust and cement, it fell to William Gori, dog trainer and mason, to put aside his tools and measure the rights guaranteed under the Constitution. ''I sat down,'' he said. ''Read everything. Looked at all the pictures.'' The troopers got their warrant. 
 In the makeshift courtroom on this winter night, he was warmly sympathetic to a woman who had forgotten to put the registration sticker on her windshield. Case dismissed.
 But the teenager with the speeding tickets saw the stern Justice Gori. The boy had tickets in a half-dozen Franklin County towns, and his lawyer proposed combining the cases in another court. 
 No way. ''What happens in the town of Duane,'' Justice Gori declared, ''stays in the town of Duane.'' 
 That is not always true. The other case that drew the attention of the Commission on Judicial Conduct involved Lucille K. Millett, a Mohawk woman from the reservation that straddles the county's border with Canada. She was outside the Duane court one night in 2004 waiting for her sister, whom she had driven there for a traffic case. Justice Gori summoned Ms. Millett inside, asked for her driver's license and called the state police to run it through their computer.
 In an interview, Ms. Millett said she was frightened and embarrassed; no one else was asked for a license. The only sense the sisters could make of it, she said, was that they were the only American Indians in court.
 She filed a complaint with the commission, which ruled last year that Justice Gori had no right to demand anything of someone outside his court who faced no charges.
 Asked about the case, Justice Gori denied that he harbored any prejudice. He said he thought he was acting within his authority.
 ''You learn by mistakes,'' he said. ''They say this is improper, I don't do it again.'' 
 It is a measure of his isolation that his disciplinary hearings have been among the few times he has had a chance to rub shoulders with the larger legal world. He attends the refresher course each year. But he said the town could not afford to send him to the annual state magistrates' convention, held last year in Niagara Falls, nor could he pay for the trip himself. 
 Still, he is convinced that he and the other justices across New York are honest people trying to do right. ''Economicswise,'' he added, ''you couldn't get the job done any cheaper.'' 

A County at the Edges
 The troubles of Mr. Gori and his fellow justices are nothing new. In 1973, the State Commission of Investigation arrived in the Franklin County village of Saranac Lake to examine the work of one justice, a maintenance worker and vacuum-cleaner salesman, whose ''inept and mangled handling,'' it said, had bungled a felony grand larceny case.
 What investigators found alarmed them. Money was missing. Records were sloppy. A pile of cash from fines sat in an unlocked drawer. The justice's relationship with the police seemed far too close, and one of his law books was 44 years old. 
 Astonished, the investigators widened their inquiry to include all the justice courts in the county and then expanded it across New York. Calling for statewide reform, they concluded that ''such deficiencies and ineptitude'' in the justice courts ''simply must not be tolerated.''
 But little seems to have changed in Franklin County's justice courts since then.
 Last November, one longtime village justice, Roy H. Kristoffersen, a salesman, resigned after officials began investigating charges, which he denied, that he ''rendered favorable dispositions'' for the son of the other village justice -- in Saranac Lake, the same place that touched off the investigation 33 years ago. 
 Another justice, Marie A. Cook, a school-bus driver who is still on the town bench in Chateaugay, not only fixed a speeding ticket at the request of a fellow justice, but she was so oblivious to ethical rules, the commission said last fall, that she made an official record of the fix: ''Reduced in the interest of Justice Danny LaClair.'' 
 Yet another, the town justice who released a rape suspect on bail as a favor to a friend, tried to explain things to the commission: ''Maybe you are not familiar with what goes on in the North Country, but we are all more or less friends up there.'' 
 Such cases may only hint at the dimensions of the problem in Franklin's courts. A review for this article of rarely seen appeals files in Franklin County Court showed a disturbing trail of legal blunders and judicial ignorance over the last five years.
 One justice seemed not to fully understand that criminal charges must be proved beyond a reasonable doubt, wrote the county court judge, Robert G. Main Jr. Another justice skipped over the matter of the constitutional guarantee of a lawyer. Immediately after a woman charged with fraud said she could not afford an attorney, Judge Main said, the village justice took her guilty plea instead of appointing a lawyer. 
 Such problems are hardly news to many lawyers who make the rounds of Franklin County's justice courts. Some say they avoid the courts because the justices often have trouble following their arguments. 
 In a place as poor and remote as Franklin County, the failings of modest courts can loom large. Cases too minor to draw much interest from the rest of the legal system -- evictions, misdemeanor charges, disputes between neighbors, driving infractions and applications for bail -- come with real consequences for small-town residents who may have little money or access to a lawyer.
 Alexander Lesyk, the Franklin County public defender for 15 years until a few months ago, said that while he had some successes for poor clients before local justices, ''I don't believe any of them has enough training to handle a trial, to handle constitutional issues, to stand up to and control an attorney on either side when they need to.''
 But challenging a justice can be bad for business, some lawyers said.
 The district attorney, Mr. Champagne, said that when his office hears about justices who stray from the law, it has to be careful. ''We're not going to get into a confrontation with a judge we may have to go in front of next week on a very serious preliminary hearing in a murder case,'' he said.

A Case of Confusion
 When Gary Betters got the letter from Justice Gori in March 1999 saying that his claim for back pay had been dismissed, he was very confused. The message was a single paragraph, and garbled at that. Even the date on it was wrong.
 But that was only the start of his troubles.
 He wrote to Justice Gori, asking for a mistrial. The justice never replied.
 Mr. Betters decided to appeal in county court. But he could not persuade any lawyer to take the case; several, he said, told him it would not be in their interest to take on a town justice. 
 On his own, Mr. Betters filed a complaint with the Commission on Judicial Conduct, and the truth emerged: The commission's investigators discovered that Justice Gori had gone to the Malone village offices before the trial and interviewed the defense's chief witness, the village treasurer, who told him that Mr. Betters was owed nothing. 
 Justice Gori told the village attorney that he need not show up for the trial because he had already decided to dismiss the case. The attorney was amazed. ''A lot of bells and whistles went off,'' he told the commission.
 But when Justice Gori explained himself to the commission in a closed hearing, he said he had never heard of the rule against contacting one side of a case to discuss the evidence. Further, the commission's lawyer argued, a legal motion filed by the village had completely bewildered Justice Gori, even after he made several calls to the state's help line for town justices. 
 ''The whole concept I didn't understand,'' Justice Gori testified.
 It was a damaging admission, but nothing compared with the case made by his own lawyer, John A. Piasecki. He said his client's error-riddled handling of Mr. Betters's suit was an indictment of the system, which put laymen on the bench, gave them little training and left them to interpret the law. 
 Mr. Piasecki asked whether the state had ever checked Justice Gori's reading comprehension. (It had not.) He even tried to cross-examine the Malone village attorney to show what he argued was the obvious difference between Justice Gori and someone who actually understood the law.
 Mr. Piasecki, a Franklin County lawyer himself, urged a ''long-overdue correction'' for the justice court system, which he said ''undermines confidence in the integrity of the judiciary.'' 
 The commission was not moved. Justice Gori, it said, had a duty to learn the law. ''Town justices wield enormous power in civil and criminal cases,'' the commission said, ''and it is not unreasonable to expect them to know and follow basic statutory procedures.''
 Yet Justice Gori received the lightest public penalty the commission can issue, an admonition. 
 As for Mr. Betters, he never found a lawyer to take his appeal. Today, he still feels that his education in Franklin County law cost him a lot more than $1,588.60. 
 ''It broke down my belief in the justice system,'' he said.

Business as Usual
 The judicial career of William Gori began humbly enough. 
 ''Nobody was jumping out of the woodwork wanting this job,'' said Justice Gori, who raised his hand for the position in 1997 after the sitting justice announced his retirement.
 With no opposition, he won the endorsement of the Republicans and then the Democrats in Duane. The Republican chairwoman, Pamela M. LeMieux, said he impressed party leaders as responsible and ''very strict.'' 
 In the general election, his only opponent was Gary Anderson, a former accountant who ran as the candidate of what he named the Pine Tree Party. ''Nobody wants the job,'' Mr. Anderson said.
 Even the campaign was not especially interesting, Justice Gori recalled. ''All I said was: 'I'm Bill Gori. I'm running for town justice and I'm only interested in doing a good job for the town.' '' He won, 64 to 39.
 If the process was not a model of meticulous judicial selection, that fact may carry an extra punch in Duane. The town, as it happens, was named for its founders, descendants of the first federal judge in New York.
 When President George Washington selected the judge, James Duane, a prominent lawyer, for the post in 1789, he used the nomination to lay out his aspirations for selecting judges in a democracy. The choice of who would sit on a nation's courts was a matter of ''the first magnitude,'' Washington wrote, and the judiciary was ''the pillar on which our political fabric must rest.'' 
 Today, that fabric is a little frayed in Franklin County. 
 Thomas Catillaz, a former mayor of Saranac Lake, said that when political parties there find a nominee, ''It's usually, 'Thank God somebody's running,' '' he said. ''And if you're in there, you're in there for 20 years.''
 When justices are publicly disciplined, that is often the end of the matter. As Justice Gori recalls it, when he received his second admonition last year, the local newspaper in Malone ''put it way in the back.''
 He faced an election after each ruling, but no opponent. Gary Cring, a retired schoolteacher who has lived in Duane for six years, said he had not heard that Justice Gori had been disciplined. Had that been better known, he said, voters might have been less enthusiastic about re-electing him. ''People figure he must be doing a good job,'' Mr. Cring said.
 But Mrs. LeMieux, the Republican chairwoman, said it was not the town's job to police its justice. ''If he did something that was that serious, I figure the court system wouldn't have allowed him to remain a justice,'' she said. ''If they didn't throw him out, then who are we to judge?''
 And so Justice Gori is working his way through a third four-year term, learning the job as he goes. He does not appear to share his lawyer's disdain for how the justice courts are run. 
 ''I really feel the justice courts are the courts closest to the people,'' he said, and being a lawyer might interfere with that. ''At times, lawyers get hung up in certain things, so that maybe you wouldn't get true justice in certain cases.''
 But a state police report from last year suggested that in Duane, true justice -- and empathy for the people -- might be works in progress.
 It seems that Brandon L. Lucas, a scrawny 19-year-old from the next county, was trying to pay a ticket he had received in Duane for fishing with the wrong kind of bait. Since the firehouse court was empty, as it often is, Mr. Lucas went down the road to Justice Gori's house. 
 Soon, Mr. Lucas was in the back of a state trooper's car in handcuffs, and in tears. An angry Justice Gori had berated him and called the police, the young man recalled when a reporter tracked him down. He had evidently not seen the sign on the judge's garage: ''If you proceed past this point, you are subject to various trespass rules and regulations.''
 The district attorney decided not to prosecute. And Mr. Lucas made his own decision about wandering into the jurisdiction of Duane Town Court: Don't. 
 ''I'll never go fishing up there again,'' he said.

Broken Bench
 A yearlong investigation by The New York Times of the life and history of New York State's town and village courts found a long trail of judicial abuses and errors -- and of governmental failure to curb them.
 Day 1: ''This Is Not America''
 Day 2: ''You Learn by Mistakes''
 Day 3: ''Nothing Gets Done''
 Articles in this series -- with audio and photos -- are online: nytimes.com/nyregion


GRAPHIC: Photos: THE COURTHOUSE -- Justice William J. Gori in the door of his courtroom, housed in the firehouse, in the North Country town of Duane. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
(Illustration by Haeyoun Park and Joe Burgess/The New York Times)(pg. B2)
THE JUSTICE -- William J. Gori at his desk in Duane Town Court, which lacks most courtroom trappings.
THE PUBLIC -- Lucille K. Millett and Gary Betters, in separate cases, complained to the State Commission on Judicial Conduct about Justice Gori. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B3)
William J. Gori has been a justice for nine years, learning on the job. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart/Map: ''A County's Troubled Courts''Franklin County, one of New York's poorest counties, is typical of many rural places where local justices, without much guidance or training, often end up in trouble. Fifteen justices have been disciplined, some twice, since the State Commission on Judicial Conduct was formed in 1978.A sampling of cases1982: Anthony G. Ellis, a village justice in Tupper Lake, is removed from office for illegally jailing people to coerce guilty pleas.1984: William G. Mayville is removed for using his town office in Fort Covington to collect debts for businesses.1986: Almon L. Wait is removed as town justice in Waverly for presiding over six cases involving his relatives.1997: Donald R. Roberts is removed as Malone village justice for a number of transgressions, including sentencing a woman to 89 days in jail over an unpaid $1.50 cab fare.2003: Beverly J. LaClair resigns from Constable town court while facing charges, which she denies, that she mishandled cases and sentenced a defendant without a plea or trial.2005: Two village justices in Saranac Lake face discipline. Thomas R. Glover is admonished for issuing an illegal order threatening to arrest a resident, though there were no charges. Roy H. Kristoffersen resigns while facing charges, which he denies, that he ''rendered favorable dispositions'' for Justice Glover's son.2006: Joseph I. LaLonde of Tupper Lake resigns as town and village justice after the commission charges that he dismissed cases without notifying prosecutors, insulted people in court and presided while under the influence of alcohol.Map of Franklin County, New York, highlighting the following:Town or village courtTown or village court with at least one judge who has been admonished, censured or removed from office(Franklin County)POPULATION: 51,033BELOW POVERTY LINE: 14.6% (U.S.: 12.5%)MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $32,531 (U.S.: $43,318)(Sources by New York State Commission on Judicial Conduct
New York State Office of Court Administration
 U.S. Census Bureau)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDICIAL ETHICS (89%); LEGAL ETHICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); TESTIMONY (77%); SENTENCING (77%); WITNESSES (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); BAIL (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (60%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%) Courts; Judges; Surveys and Series; Courts; Courts

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: ED TOWNS (56%) William Glaberson; William J (Judge) Gori

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%) New York State; Franklin County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



539 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Nasdaq Leads a Rally as Benchmark Rates and Oil Prices Fall

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks surged yesterday, with the Nasdaq rising more than 1 percent, as oil prices and benchmark interest rates hit multimonth lows, improving the outlook for corporate profits.
 A smaller-than-expected drop in existing-home sales for August also helped support the market.
Companies that benefit from lower borrowing costs and declining energy prices, including blue chips like Caterpillar and General Electric, led the advance. 
 Earlier in the session, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note's yield touched seven-month lows and crude prices fell to their lowest since March 8, before rebounding at the close.
 ''Further decline in oil prices has helped out and interest rates have certainly come down -- that is very helpful,'' said Lincoln F. Anderson, chief investment officer with LPL Financial Services in Boston.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 67.71 points, or 0.59 percent, to end at 11,575.81. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 11.59 points, or 0.88 percent, to finish at 1,326.37, its highest level in more than five years.
 The Nasdaq composite index jumped 30.14 points, or 1.36 percent, to close at 2,249.07.
 Caterpillar, the Dow's top gainer, jumped 2.5 percent, or $1.56, to $64.33. General Electric, the No. 1 contributor to the S.& P. 500's advance, rose 1.4 percent, or 49 cents, to $34.89.
 Apple Computer was the biggest positive influence on the Nasdaq 100. Apple's shares rose 3.8 percent, or $2.75, to $75.75 after ThinkEquity Partners said yesterday that it had raised its price target for the company's stock to $100, from $90, in anticipation of sales improvements.
 The chip maker Broadcom, another top gainer in the Nasdaq 100, jumped 9 percent, or $2.51, to $30.36 after analysts at BMO Capital Markets raised their fourth-quarter earnings estimates on the company.
 The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Richard W. Fisher, captured Wall Street's attention when he said the United States economy was doing well but inflation was still a concern. Those remarks, made at a conference in Monterrey, Mexico, challenged speculation that the central bank would cut interest rates early next year.
 The pace of existing-home sales fell for a fifth consecutive month in August, according to a report from the National Association of Realtors, but the decline was not as bleak as economists had expected.
 The Dow Jones index of home builders' stocks climbed 3.5 percent.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note dropped to 4.54 percent. The price, which moves inversely to the yield, rose 12/32, to 10219/32.
 Also helping the Dow, shares of the computer maker Hewlett-Packard gained 1.7 percent, or 24 cents, to $35.11, in the first trading session after the company's chairwoman resigned. On Friday, the chairwoman, Patricia C. Dunn, resigned under pressure over the methods the company used to investigate boardroom leaks to the news media.
 Meanwhile, shares of Altria dropped 6.4 percent, or $5.26, to $77.06, while Reynolds American fell $2.27, to close at $59.75, a drop of 3.6 percent. A federal judge gave class-action status yesterday to a lawsuit filed by smokers of light cigarettes who have accused tobacco companies of fraud and are seeking damages of as much as $200 billion.
 Crude oil for November delivery rose 90 cents, to settle at $61.45 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. But in overnight electronic trading, it fell to $59.52, its lowest price since March 8.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.794	97.568	High Rate	 4.770	 4.810	Investment Rate	 4.895	 4.998	Low Rate	 4.720	 4.780	Median Rate	 4.750	 4.795	Total applied for	$51,127,703	$43,871,614 	Accepted	$25,220,303	$22,704,286	Noncompetitive	$1,740,683	$1,744,289	

Both issues are dated Sept. 28, 2006. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 28, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on March 29, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' tracks Treasury Bills, High rate at weekly auction since June. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); COMPUTER MAKERS (71%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: APPLE INC (82%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); BROADCOM CORP (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (53%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



540 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Arts, Briefly; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 668 words

BYLINE: Compiled by Lawrence Van Gelder

 BODY:

Mona Lisa Lightens Up
 The Mona Lisa, as she has seldom been seen, will put in a rare appearance next month at the Dulwich Picture Gallery in London. The painting, left, from a private collection, is an early copy in vibrant colors believed to reflect those of the Leonardo da Vinci original, CBC Arts reported. The reproduction, to be seen in London for the first time since 1902, is thought to have been traced from the original by an unidentified French artist a century after the masterpiece was painted between 1503 and 1516. Copies were not uncommon in that era, because seeing the originals required long journeys. Although the original, in the Louvre in Paris, has faded over the years, the reproduction shows the Mona Lisa in bright colors -- yellow sleeves, a forest-green gown -- under a dazzling blue sky. Martin Kemp, a professor of art history at Oxford University and a Leonardo specialist, told The Guardian, ''It will give people a real sense that the Mona Lisa was once a colorful painting.'' The copy, once owned by Sir Joshua Reynolds, who got it from the Duke of Leeds in 1790, will be on view from Oct. 10 to Feb. 11.

James Nachtwey Wins Heinz Award 
 The globe-trotting self-taught photojournalist James Nachtwey, below, of New York, whose images have recorded war, famine and discord, has won the $250,000 12th annual Heinz Award for Arts and Humanities. ''As a photojournalist, James Nachtwey has created art, not art that offers a new technique but art that powerfully exposes man's inhumanity to man,'' said Teresa Heinz, chairwoman of the Heinz Family Foundation, which confers the awards in five categories, including environment, human condition, public policy and technology, the economy and employment. ''He photographs people who need to be brought to our attention, people whose truths need to be known in a visual context.'' The awards will be presented at a private ceremony in Pittsburgh on Oct. 24.

Stolen Munch Art To Be Seen
 Damaged by thieves, the Edward Munch masterworks ''The Scream'' and ''Madonna'' will briefly go on view beginning tomorrow at the city-owned Munch Museum in Oslo, where they were stolen by masked gunmen in broad daylight in August 2004, The Associated Press reported. Recovered by the police on Aug. 31, the works will be exhibited through Sunday in response to public demand, the museum said. The stolen ''Scream'' was damaged in one corner, and two one-inch holes mar ''Madonna.'' The museum said they can be repaired, but the restoration will be time consuming.

Footnotes
 Robin Williams, below, who sought treatment for alcoholism in August, is to join the director Barry Levinson in a conversation moderated by Lillian Ross after a screening of their new comedy, ''Man of the Year,'' at noon on Oct. 8 at the Alliance Francaise as part of the New Yorker Festival. The festival has also added a second screening of the Sacha Baron Cohen film ''Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan'' at 12:30 p.m. on Oct. 8 at the Directors Guild of America, 110 West 57th Street, in Midtown. Stacey Kent, singing songs including Cole Porter's ''My Heart Belongs to Daddy,'' Frank Loesser's ''If I Were a Bell'' and Antonio Carlos Jobim's ''Corcovado,'' will open her new show, ''Love and the Lyric,'' on Oct. 3 at Feinstein's at the Regency.'' With the saxophonist Jim Tomlinson (her husband) as her guest, she will appear through Oct. 14. Julie Andrews has been chosen by the Screen Actors Guild to receive its Life Achievement Award, given annually to an actor who fosters the ''finest ideals of the acting profession.'' The award will be presented at a ceremony to be seen live on TNT and TBS on Jan. 28. After playing on Broadway and around the world, ''Stones in His Pockets,'' the Marie Jones comedy in which two actors play 15 roles in a story about a Hollywood film being shot in an Irish village, will return to London for a production in the West End at the Duchess Theater. Previews begin on Nov. 1.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); ART THEFT (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); HISTORY (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); ART HISTORY (72%); FOUNDATIONS (63%); PUBLIC POLICY (63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (50%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%) Art

PERSON: Leonardo Da Vinci (1452-1519)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); OSLO, NORWAY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%) NORWAY (79%); UNITED STATES (74%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



541 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: TOBACCO MAKERS LOSE KEY RULING ON LATEST SUITS 

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON and MELANIE WARNER

 BODY:
In a legal blow to the tobacco industry, a federal judge in Brooklyn ruled yesterday that people who smoked light cigarettes that were often promoted as a safer alternative to regular cigarettes can press their fraud claim as a class-action suit. 
 Judge Jack B. Weinstein of Federal District Court in Brooklyn found ''substantial evidence'' that the manufacturers knew that light cigarettes were at least as dangerous as regular cigarettes.
The decision, coming at a time when the tobacco industry felt it was on a legal winning streak, raises the possibility that so-called lights cases will become a major threat to the companies and expose them to potentially significant damages.
 The case, first filed in 2004, is against Philip Morris USA, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco, British American Tobacco, Liggett Group, Brown & Williamson and Lorillard Tobacco. It differs from many previous tobacco lawsuits in that it does not claim that smokers suffered personal injury. Instead, the case -- called the Schwab case after the lead plaintiff, Barbara Schwab -- claims that the industry defrauded consumers beginning as early as 1971, when Philip Morris began selling Marlboro Lights, the first light cigarette. 
 Because some 45 percent of smokers currently smoke light cigarettes, potentially vast numbers of people nationwide could be involved. 
 Michael D. Hausfeld, a partner at Cohen, Milstein, Hausfeld & Toll who is representing the plaintiffs, has said that the class could reach tens of millions of people and involve damages of up to $200 billion. The racketeering law being cited would allow any damage award to be tripled.
 Investors yesterday drove down the price of tobacco stocks.
 But before the case can proceed to a jury trial, the class-action ruling would have to be upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Some litigation experts expressed strong doubt that it would survive such an appeal.
 William S. Ohlemeyer, associate general counsel of Altria, whose Philip Morris division makes half the nation's cigarettes, said ''the judge is wrong on the law and wrong on the facts.''
 Mr. Ohlemeyer said that the government, not tobacco companies, promoted the idea that lights were a safer alternative cigarette.
 He added that Supreme Court decisions and court rules prohibit treating fraud cases as class actions because each individual claim of reliance on false statements must be proved.
 Still, yesterday's ruling is a setback to what tobacco companies have previously described as an ''improving legal environment'' for the industry. 
 Tobacco companies in recent months had won a string of victories. In July, the Florida Supreme Court upheld a decision to toss out a $145 billion judgment in a class-action suit. In December, the Illinois Supreme Court threw out a similar $10 billion judgment against Philip Morris. 
 Then last month, Judge Gladys Kessler of Federal District Court for the District of Columbia issued a scathing decision in the Department of Justice's landmark racketeering lawsuit. She concluded that the tobacco industry had engaged in a 40-year conspiracy to defraud smokers about the health dangers of tobacco, including deceptions about lights and low-tar cigarettes. 
 But while Judge Kessler ordered tobacco companies to stop labeling cigarettes as ''low tar'' or ''light'' to convey that they were less hazardous than full-flavor cigarettes, she said an earlier ruling prevented her from awarding what could have amounted to $10 billion in damages. 
 Yesterday's ruling also throws uncertainty into long-running plans by Altria, the parent company of Philip Morris, to separate its Kraft Foods unit from its domestic and foreign tobacco businesses. After several decisions favorable to tobacco companies within the last year, investors had driven up the price of Altria's shares in anticipation that it would spin off Kraft in the coming months.
 Shares of Altria fell 6.4 percent yesterday to $77.06.
 David Adelman, a tobacco analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a conference call with investors that Judge Weinstein's ruling would probably delay a restructuring. He said he expects that if tobacco companies are successful in their efforts to get a review of Judge Weinstein's decision before the trial begins, which could be as early as January, a Kraft spin-off could take place by the end of the first quarter of 2007. 
 Mr. Adelman said that based on past rulings and what he called the ''conservative'' nature of the Second Circuit appeals court, he expected such a review to be granted. If it is not, the Schwab case will proceed to a jury trial.
 While plaintiffs' lawyers have been filing such class-action suits against cigarette makers since the early 1990's, this is the first lights case to be certified as a class action in a federal court. Currently, three other lights cases have received class certification, all in state courts and encompassing fewer numbers of smokers.
 Judge Weinstein rejected the defense claim that the case was so ''enormous in scope and time and in diverse persons affected'' that there was no reasonable and inexpensive way to try the case.
 The judge said that a central theme of American justice was that ''each right has a remedy'' but that it was impractical to try individually the fraud claims of tens of millions of smokers.
 The judge took note of past court decisions limiting class-action cases and expressed doubt that litigation has done, or can do, much to reduce the damage done by smoking.
 ''Nevertheless,'' Judge Weinstein ruled, ''where a cigarette smoker can demonstrate that he or a group of smokers has been damaged by the cigarette industry, the help of the court in resolving the claim and defenses is mandatory.''
 Judge Weinstein also took note of the agreements the tobacco companies reached with the state governments, suggesting the companies could end up paying damages twice.
 ''The independent political-economic arrangement'' the tobacco companies made with the states ''to pay them billions of dollars over many years has not compensated smokers for the individual damages they have allegedly suffered,'' the judge wrote. He also wrote that widespread ''partial acknowledgments'' by tobacco companies that cigarettes are dangerous, and their efforts to reduce smoking by children and others ''does not negate any liability for past'' misconduct.
 Judge Weinstein has a history of decisions that favor class actions and proposing novel solutions to settle cases. In an earlier tobacco case, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals overturned his certification of a class.
 Professor Geoffrey P. Miller, who teaches class-action litigation at New York University Law School, was among the lawyers who said they expected the Second Circuit Court of Appeals to overturn the class-action certification.
 ''It is important to remember that it is not a crime per se to lie, nor is it a violation of law to lie,'' Professor Miller said. Proving fraud requires showing both that the companies lied and that customers relied on those lies, which means that ''technically each individual class member has to show reliance on the fraudulent statements,'' he added.
 Victor E. Schwartz, general counsel for the American Tort Reform Association, which seeks major limits on class actions, said that ''the flaw in Judge Weinstein's decision is the idea that there is always a remedy for every alleged injury, which simply is not true.''
 Trying cases one smoker at a time has resulted in a few victories for smokers, but many more victories for cigarette makers.
 PhilipJ. Hilts, author of the 1996 book ''Smoke Screen,'' which relied on internal cigarette industry documents to show that the companies knew cigarettes were addictive and dangerous but did not alert consumers, said that cigarette makers have good reason to fear a class-action lawsuit.
 ''With a class action you get higher legal firepower and you get the principle discussed, not that this person quit smoking a while ago or says he smoked more than he did or whatever detail diverts from the principle,'' Mr. Hilts said.
 Cigarette smoke contains thousands of chemicals, some of them known carcinogens. Some lights are advertised as having less nicotine, a highly addictive substance.
 Light cigarettes are manufactured differently from regular cigarettes. They have microscopic holes that the companies say dilute the smoke. Medical researchers have found that people draw harder and deeper on lights, often filling their lungs with more toxic material than they would get from regular cigarettes, said Dr. Stanton A. Glantz, a cardiologist at the University of California, San Francisco medical school who is a longtime antagonist of the cigarette makers.
 Matthew L. Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, an anti-tobacco group, said he thought the latest ruling could embolden plaintiffs' lawyers to file new lights cases.
 Judge Weinstein and Judge Kessler's legal decisions have also heightened calls for federal regulation of cigarettes. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, introduced legislation on Sept. 7 that would ban the use of the terms ''light'' and ''low tar.'' 
 While Mr. Lautenberg is one of 28 Democratic and Republican sponsors of another bill that would give the Food and Drug Administration authority to regulate tobacco, Dan Katz, chief counsel for Mr. Lautenberg, said that this new bill is needed as a more immediate stop-gap measure.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cigarettes like Marlboro Lights, left, and Ultra Lights, made by Philip Morris, are at issue in a class-action case that was first filed in 2004. (Photo by Karen Bleier/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO MFG (94%); SMOKING (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); JUDGES (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); APPEALS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); PERSONAL INJURY (78%); VERDICTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); DAMAGES (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); EVIDENCE (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); LAWYERS (75%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (53%) Smoking and Tobacco; Decisions and Verdicts; Liability for Products; Smoking and Tobacco; Racketeering and Racketeers; Consumer Protection; Frauds and Swindling; Suits and Litigation; Smoking and Tobacco

COMPANY: LORILLARD INC (90%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (90%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (85%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (85%); COHEN MILSTEIN (67%)

ORGANIZATION: Philip Morris Usa; Reynolds American Inc; British American Tobacco; Liggett Group Inc; Brown & Williamson; Lorillard Tobacco Co

TICKER: LO (NYSE) (90%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (90%); BTI (JSE) (90%); BATS (LSE) (90%); MO (NYSE) (85%); PMI (SWX) (85%); PM (PAR) (85%); PM (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (90%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (67%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (67%)

PERSON: David Cay Johnston; Melanie Warner; Jack B (Judge) Weinstein

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



542 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Hoping to Be a Model, I.B.M. Will Put Its Patent Filings Online 

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
I.B.M., the nation's largest patent holder, will publish its patent filings on the Web for public review as part of a new policy that the company hopes will be a model for others. 
 If widely adopted, the policy could help to curb the rising wave of patent disputes and patent litigation.
The policy, being announced today, includes standards like clearly identifying the corporate ownership of patents, to avoid filings that cloak authorship under the name of an individual or dummy company. It also asserts that so-called business methods alone -- broad descriptions of ideas, without technical specifics -- should not be patentable. 
 The move by I.B.M. does carry business risks. Patents typically take three or four years after filing to be approved by the patent office. Companies often try to keep patent applications private for as long as possible, to try to hide their technical intentions from rivals.
 ''Competitors will know years ahead in some cases what fields we're working on,'' said John Kelly, senior vice president for technology and intellectual property at I.B.M. ''We've decided we'll take that risk and seek our competitive advantage elsewhere.''
 The more open approach, I.B.M. says, is intended as a step toward improving the quality of patents issued in general because the process of public review should weed out me-too claims that are not genuine innovations.
 ''The larger picture here is that intellectual property is the crucial capital in a global knowledge economy,'' said Samuel J. Palmisano, I.B.M.'s chief executive. ''If you need a dozen lawyers involved every time you want to do something, it's going to be a huge barrier. We need to make sure that intellectual property is not used as a barrier to growth in the future.''
 The I.B.M. move is partly a response to what it and other technology companies regard as the slow movement by Congress toward overhauling the patent process. 
 A patent bill introduced last spring in the Senate, by Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, and Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, has provisions that encourage patent reviews by eliminating the requirement that applicants give consent. Yet any legislation is not likely to be enacted for another year or two. 
 ''We were hoping that the laws would change more quickly,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''We're not going to wait.''
 Rapid advances in technology and the rise of industries like software, biotechnology and nanotechnology have resulted in a steep increase in patent applications in recent years. With limited resources, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has been overwhelmed, patent experts say.
 The old system of a lone patent examiner weighing the innovative merit of a claim to originality, they say, cannot hope to cope with the surge in patent filings. A result, they note, is that many patents are granted for supposed inventions that are of dubious merit.
 The avalanche of patents -- many making broad and vague claims -- has produced an environment of uncertainty, rich in opportunity for litigation and patent speculators. 
 The I.B.M. policy seeks to address that problem by taking a page from the open-source style of collaboration over the Internet. Just as open-source software is improved and debugged by a far-flung network of people looking at the code and spotting flaws, I.B.M. hopes that a similar process can improve patent quality.
 ''This is a creative response to that fundamental issue in the patent system,'' said Josh Lerner, a professor at the Harvard Business School.
 I.B.M. is not the only institution interested in using Internet collaboration to help improve the patent system. Last month, the patent office agreed to try a pilot project of soliciting outside comments on patent filings, including claims of prior art and originality. 
 I.B.M. is one of several companies that have agreed to submit some patent applications for open peer review as part of the project, beginning early next year. The others include Microsoft, General Electric, Hewlett-Packard, Oracle, Intel and Red Hat. 
 ''These are companies that are stepping up to make a commitment to patent reform,'' said Beth Noveck, director of the Institute for Information Law and Policy at New York Law School, which will be a partner in the project. 
 As a company that received 2,974 patents in the United States last year, I.B.M. is trying to walk a careful line. It remains committed, for example, to software patents, which have stirred opposition in Europe and elsewhere. And the company plans to continue to be a leader in patent filings.
 I.B.M. also said that its technical experts will spend ''thousands of hours'' a year scrutinizing the patent filings of other companies.
 I.B.M. used Internet collaboration to develop its new patent policy. More than 50 patent and policy experts from the United States, Europe, Japan and China exchanged views for two months in May and June on a wiki, an online site that can be added to and edited collectively. The resulting document is posted on www.ibm.com/gio/ip. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (98%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PATENT LAW (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); LAWYERS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (50%) Inventions and Patents; Computers and the Internet; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: International Business Machines Corp

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (59%); ORRIN HATCH (50%); PATRICK LEAHY (50%) Samuel J Palmisano; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



543 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Favor Admitting Romania and Bulgaria, Then Retooling

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
Romania and Bulgaria will receive a qualified endorsement on Tuesday to join the European Union on Jan. 1, but the bloc will warn that expansion must then halt until the organization makes needed structural changes, the European Commission president said Monday. 
 Jose Manuel Barroso, the commission president, said the admission of the two countries was the last phase of integration in a European Union that has been stretched beyond capacity for now.
''The upcoming enlargement with Bulgaria and Romania will be the last stage of enlargement allowing the reunification of Europe,'' he said. ''We are not in a position to further integrate Europe without further institutional reform. There are limits to our absorption capacity.''
 He added that the European Union's moribund constitution, which proposed a streamlined voting system to accommodate an expanded membership, would have made further enlargement more manageable. But after the constitution's emphatic rejection last year in France and the Netherlands, Mr. Barroso said the union either had to revive the charter or make the needed changes another way. 
 His warning was echoed Monday by Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin of France, who cautioned that further expansion of the bloc -- which currently has 25 member nations -- risked making it unworkable.
 ''We need principles on common rules before we can contemplate further stages of enlargement,'' he said after meeting in Brussels with Mr. Barroso.
 The call to freeze enlargement could affect efforts by Croatia, Serbia, Turkey, Bosnia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania to become members. Croatia could be the country most immediately affected. It has been pursuing political and economic changes with the aim of joining the European Union in 2009.
 The statements on Monday reflected what had been called ''expansion fatigue'' since the union's enlargement in May 2004 from 15 countries to 25, with 470 million people. Skepticism about the benefits of expansion contributed to the ''no'' votes on the constitution last year in France and the Netherlands, where there was particular concern about admitting Turkey, with its largely Muslim population.
 Enlargement has become a symbol of the European Union's remoteness from its people, with many Europeans expressing opposition to further expansion.
 Some European countries, led by Britain and with the enthusiastic backing of the United States, have supported further expansion because the promise of European Union membership has accelerated steps like Turkey's revamping of its penal code and the arrest of accused war criminals in Croatia. But countries like France fear that further expansion will undermine their influence while making the bloc so unwieldy it will become paralyzed.
 The tougher line on expansion will be reflected in the commission report on Tuesday about Romania and Bulgaria, which will warn of harsh penalties if the countries do not complete required steps, including tackling corruption and organized crime.
 The report by the European Commission, the European Union's executive body, will serve as a recommendation on whether to admit the countries, but the ultimate decision rests with European Union member countries, which will decide before the end of the year.
 The two countries hope that membership will help raise their per capita income, which is one-third the European Union average. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); ORGANIZED CRIME (63%); CORRUPTION (60%); WAR CRIMES (60%) Constitutions

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%) European Commission; European Union

PERSON: JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (89%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (52%) Dan Bilefsky; Jose Manuel Barroso

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); ROMANIA (94%); FRANCE (94%); CROATIA (93%); BELGIUM (92%); BULGARIA (90%); NETHERLANDS (88%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); SERBIA (79%) Europe; Bulgaria; Romania; Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



544 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Iraq, Breeding Ground for Terror 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Spy Agencies Say Iraq War Worsens Terrorism Threat'' (front page, Sept. 24):
 The estimate by the intelligence agencies underlines what has become increasingly evident: the supposed centerpiece of the war on terror has undermined our national security, not only by taxing our military capacities but also by fueling Islamic radicalism around the world and creating deep hostility where it did not formerly exist.
I consider myself a conservative, and I voted for President Bush twice, despite misgivings about his foreign policy the second time around. I wouldn't do so again. 
 The president gravely overestimates the capacity of American power to transform the world. His arrogant messianism is feeding anti-Americanism around the world -- and not only among the jihadists -- with the most profound and dangerous implications for the future.
 Now that we're in Iraq, there are no simple answers. An early withdrawal and staying the course indefinitely look equally hazardous, with unforeseeable and potentially disastrous consequences either way. 
 But the president's high-flown rhetoric about freedom and democracy and the nobility of the American mission in the world is sounding very hollow these days.

Andy Anderson
Bronxville, N.Y., Sept. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Our own intelligence agencies have concluded that the war in Iraq, which President Bush has described as the ''central front'' of the war on terror, has increased the terrorist threat. Will this finally discredit President Bush's war of choice and help prevent the start of still another in Iran? 
 I doubt it. President Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld will tout this as more evidence of how much we have to fear, how only their tough-guy approach can protect us. 
 They know that fear will trump logic -- the logic of asking why we should entrust our safety to officials whose reckless, dishonest and incompetent policies have done so much to endanger it.

Richard Barber
Brooklyn, Sept. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Imagine if instead of the Iraq war, we had put 100,000 troops in Afghanistan at Tora Bora. We might have dealt a crushing blow to Al Qaeda. 
 Imagine if we had spent a small fraction of the treasure wasted in Iraq in Afghanistan, providing security and promoting economic development. Afghanistan could have been our model for the promotion of democracy. 
 The arrogance and outright bungling of the war in Iraq by the Bush administration has made our country and the rest of the world less safe for generations to come. 

Martin Hoffman
New York, Sept. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 It doesn't help to say ''I told you so,'' even though many of us predicted exactly what the spy agencies now report (''Spy Agencies Say Iraq War Worsens Terrorism Threat,'' front page, Sept. 24). But it might help to no longer ''stay the course'' when the course is self-destructive.
 Since fighting an unprovoked war only furthers the image of the United States as an enemy to eradicate, what about changing tack? What about acknowledging that we are not helping by continuing to fight, and offering money for services instead of troops to kill?

Ellen B. Luborsky
New York, Sept. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 Senator John Kerry said in a statement that ''the National Intelligence Estimate provides jarring confirmation that the disastrous policy in Iraq is a giant recruiting poster for terrorists.''
 Senator Kerry fails (or refuses) to acknowledge one important truth about our fight against terrorism: any strong, defensive action by the United States will serve as a recruiting tool for terrorists. The very fact that the enemy considers our actions a threat may be an indication of our effectiveness. 
 In fact, we would have far greater reason for concern if our actions were not threatening our enemies.
 Mr. Kerry's concern is misguided and dangerous. Our primary concern should be what it takes for us to succeed, not how our enemy feels about our actions.

Andrea Economos
Scarsdale, N.Y., Sept. 24, 2006

To the Editor:
 It should not come as a surprise to any fairly sensible person that the United States occupation of Iraq is indeed counterproductive, a drain on the economy and an egregious example of arrogant power that can only serve to increase the ranks of those who decide to oppose it by taking up arms. 
 What is surprising is that the government has 16 disparate spy services that collaborated to produce the document ''Trends in Global Terrorism: Implications for the United States.'' 
 One imagines that most of us who question President Bush's Iraq adventure could have produced a comparable analysis at a fraction of the cost.

George Kraus
Tarrytown, N.Y., Sept. 25, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Felix Sockwell)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RELIGION (56%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Intelligence Services

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (78%) Andy Anderson; Richard Barber; Martin Hoffman; Ellen B Luborsky; Andrea Economos; George Kraus; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006



545 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; EATING WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Tainted Spinach Brings Demands for New Rules

BYLINE: By Marian Burros

 BODY:
THE latest outbreak of food-borne illness, traced to a virulent bacterium in bagged spinach, is being called a watershed moment for American industrial agriculture, a time of reckoning for industry and government and the public.
 Critics say the factory farming system needs an overhaul, with produce farmers and processors being subject to the same sorts of mandatory rules as the meat industry to protect against E. coli O157:H7 and other harmful bacteria. More outbreaks of disease are now traced to produce than to meat, poultry, fish, eggs and milk combined.
The dangers can be compounded once produce is taken home. The casual way many consumers treat bagged, cut up fruits and vegetables -- not washing them, leaving them unrefrigerated -- increases the likelihood that even a low level of harmful bacteria can multiply and cause illness. 
 Some scientists say the sealed bags add protection; others believe the sealed bags, if mishandled, actually help bacteria to proliferate. 
 The source of the E. coli O157:H7 blamed in the current outbreak is unknown. It may be irrigation water reclaimed from sewage treatment. It may be unsanitary conditions on the farm. But there is increasing suspicion that the cause may be water runoff from the many cattle farms near the fields in the Salinas Valley of California, where produce tainted with the E. coli has caused eight outbreaks of illness since 1995.
 Water contaminated with E. coli from cow manure may have been used for irrigation or may have been deposited on the fields by heavy spring rains and flooding.
 Dr. Trevor Suslow, a microbiologist at the University of California at Davis, called this case ''the catalyst, the tipping point.''
 ''This is a culmination of incidents that have been going on for 10 years and cattle have become the primary focus,'' Dr. Suslow said. ''Data from the last 23 years clearly demonstrate the potential for crop contamination from pathogenic E. coli in the watershed.'' 
 Dr. Suslow asked the question on many critics' minds: ''Should cows be raised in close proximity to produce? Ideally you would like to see them well separated.''
 Dr. David Acheson, medical director of the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition agrees that cows may be a serious problem. 
 ''I'm speculating, but there is a logical link between cattle and manure getting into the water,'' Dr. Acheson said. 
 Would the outbreak have been prevented if the farmers and processors of salad greens were subject to the same regulations that meat processors have been under since 1997?
 ''Farms can do pretty much as they please as long as they don't make anyone sick,'' said Carol Tucker Foreman, a former assistant secretary of agriculture and director of the Food Policy Institute at the Consumer Federation of America, a consumer advocacy group. 
 The F.D.A. has jurisdiction, but little regulatory authority, over the produce industry, and has fewer than 2,000 inspectors for more than 120,000 facilities, 250 inspectors fewer than in 2003. Even some high-risk foods are only inspected every two to four years. The Agriculture Department, which oversees the meat industry, has 7,600 inspectors for 6,000 facilities.
 On Monday the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a frequent critic of the food industry, and the Food Products Association, an industry group, joined with others in a coalition to lobby for more F.D.A. financing. The agency estimates that, taking inflation into account, the budget for its Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition will have fallen by almost 30 percent from 2003 t0 2007. Its staffing decreased by 14 percent.
 The increased number of outbreaks of produce contamination has put even more pressure on the agency. 
 ''This is kind of a new situation and we don't have a routine inspection cycle,'' said Mark Roh, the acting regional director of food and drug for the F.D.A.'s Pacific Region. ''Farms traditionally have not been inspected even when they were bagging lettuce,'' he said. 
 Dr. Acheson and Mr. Roh both say the agency is considering mandatory rules. 
 ''If rules were mandatory rather than voluntary it might tend to enhance the industry's effort at compliance,'' said Mr. Roh. He said regulations could be modeled on the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point system used in meat, poultry, fish and egg processing plants in which preventive controls minimize hazards in food.
 Caroline Smith DeWaal, director of food safety for the Center for Science in the Public Interest, agreed. 
 ''We need mandatory standards, enforced across the system,'' Ms. DeWaal said. 
 Compounding unsafe growing practices are unsafe processing and transportation practices. From field to home, produce may be left unrefrigerated several times: immediately after it is cut; as it sits on receiving docks at warehouses and supermarkets and when it is in display cases.
 Often supermarkets do not maintain proper temperature in refrigerated cases for meat, poultry and produce. Cases should be kept at 41 degrees or below to prevent most bacteria from growing, but they often reach 50 degrees. At room temperature bacteria double every couple of hours.
 Shoppers can make the problem worse. Many people assume that because some fruits and vegetables are displayed without refrigeration, all produce is safe at room temperature.
 ''Consumers need to treat cut or bagged produce the way they treat their meat and poultry for safety,'' Ms. DeWaal said. ''Pick it up last; get it home and in the refrigerator.'' 
 Cut produce should not be left on the kitchen countertop, on the desk in the office or in the car while doing other errands. The opportunity for contamination increases when produce is cut up, allowing pathogens to spread from and to the cut surfaces.
 Consumer Reports offers additional advice: Wash all produce thoroughly in a stream of water. Forget about produce washes: they do not claim to kill harmful bacteria. Discard any areas showing even the slightest evidence of spoilage. Use separate cutting boards and utensils for meat and produce; thoroughly clean after cutting and dry with paper towels. 
 For uncut produce Dr. Michael P. Doyle, director of the University of Georgia's Center for Food Safety, recommends extra precautions now that E. coli has become such a problem. Discard the outer leaves from a head of lettuce. Then wash your hands with hot, soapy water, remove the rest of the leaves and wash them. Wash even fruits and vegetables with skins that are not eaten, to prevent bacteria on the skin from entering the flesh when the food is cut.
 Cross-contamination is not just a matter of keeping raw hamburger away from salad greens, but of keeping unwashed salad greens and utensils that have touched them away from any food that will not be cooked.
 Bagged cut produce is washed in a chlorinated solution, but the term ''triple washed,'' printed on the labels, does not mean the salad greens are completely safe. 
 ''The primary role of water chlorination is to insure the quality of the water for cooling and washing and for killing organisms on the surface of the product,'' said Dr. Suslow. ''It doesn't work 100 percent in any case. That's why all food safety programs are built around prevention.''
 Chlorination doesn't work at all when the bacteria are taken up into the leaves, which may happen if the soil has widespread E. coli O157:H7 from contaminated water or from improperly treated manure used as fertilizer. Studies have shown that bacteria can get into the plant's leaves through the cut ends and through the plant's equivalent ofpores. Then the only way to kill the bacteria is to heat it to 160 degrees for 15 seconds.
 On the other hand, six million packages of cut greens are sold every day in North America and about 170 illnesses have been reported, suggesting that the chances of getting sick are still small.


GRAPHIC: Photo: INVESTIGATED -- Spinach in Salinas, Calif. (Photo by Richard Green/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: E COLI (92%); BACTERIA (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (89%); IRRIGATION (78%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); FACTORY FARMS (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (78%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (78%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); MEATS (78%); POULTRY (78%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (77%); POULTRY PROCESSING (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); PATHOLOGY (75%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (53%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Spinach; E Coli (Bacteria); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

PERSON: Marian Burros

GEOGRAPHIC: SALINAS, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



546 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Goal Is Electronic Health Records. Path Is State by State.

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
IN the nation's ambitious quest to bring information technology to the practice of medicine, state governments are beginning to play a critical role in shepherding new systems into hospitals and doctors' offices, health experts say. Governors and legislators, for starters, are embarking on a variety of strategies to encourage the use of electronic health records and other innovations.
 ''There is a tremendous amount of focus, and it continues to grow,'' said Sheera Rosenfeld, a senior manager for Avalere Health in Washington, who helped write a report earlier this year on state initiatives. 
 The primary effort has been to encourage the use of electronic health records, so that doctors statewide can have access to patient records. State officials have begun convening task forces of hospitals, doctors, insurers and other groups to develop plans for such regional systems. 
 Many states were prompted to action by the federal government's call to arms in 2004 to develop electronic patient records throughout the United States. Like the states, the government is trying to coordinate the various efforts under way. Federal officials are also developing national standards for the technology. 
 More than half the states are in the midst of a planning process, said Janet M. Marchibroda, chief executive of eHealth Initiative, a nonprofit group in Washington that works with a variety of states and communities. In the last year and a half, she said, there has been ''a huge uptick and intensity of state activities.'' By the group's calculation, 38 states are now participating in statewide or community discussions, while as many as 21 are leading the coordination of efforts.
 By definition, many of these efforts are in the early stage. Most states are still trying to develop a plan for a technology system and are months if not years from carrying it out. Health experts say it will be some time before there are tangible signs of success. 
 ''It just takes a tremendous amount of time, investment and effort,'' said Ms. Rosenfeld of Avalere Health, noting that state officials have limited amounts of money to contribute to the effort. In some cases, states are investing only a small fraction of the eventual cost of building a system -- budgeting only a few million dollars for grants, for example. 
 ''The dollars continue to be the major limiting factor,'' said Dr. Kenneth W. Kizer, chairman and chief executive of the Medsphere Systems Corporation, a California health information technology company that sells electronic health records using an open-source platform, known as OpenVista, written by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Many of the nation's hospitals simply do not have the money to bring the systems to their own institutions, he said. 
 While no one expects state governments to foot the bill for electronic health records, the states appear to be having some success in coordinating public and private efforts, health care experts say. 
 ''Health care is really local,'' Ms. Marchibroda of eHealth Initiative said. ''Each state and each community has individual needs and wants to meet.'' 
 California, for example, has stricter rules concerning patient privacy than the federal government requires, and any system adopted there must meet that threshold. ''It's a state-level conversation,'' Ms. Marchibroda said.
 In Arizona, Gov. Janet Napolitano signed an executive order in September 2005 supporting the adoption of electronic health records in her state, and created a steering committee whose goal was to write a ''road map'' to achieve statewide adoption. Later that year, Arizona officials held a summit on the topic, attended by roughly 300 people. 
 ''It really signaled to us that the government was right on track,'' said Chris Cummiskey, the director of the Government Information Technology Agency for Arizona. 
 Over the following six months, the state's doctors and officials from hospitals and health plans discussed how to develop the road map. By April, the steering committee submitted a proposal, recommending, among other things, a state portal that would give doctors and other medical professionals in Arizona access to laboratory tests, prescriptions and the like. The committee also called for the state to take a lead in fulfilling federal standards for medical records technology. 
 But state authorities also emphasized that what has emerged in many of these discussions is a strong desire by hospitals, doctors and others involved that the state not dictate which technology to use. 
 ''What they did not want is the state to run anything and sell it back to them,'' said Teri Takai, director of the Michigan Department of Information Technology. 
 ''The major hospital systems are already spending a lot of money,'' Ms. Takai said, and the state cannot tell them to spend more money on different systems.
 But health experts and officials say that allowing hospitals to choose their own program would present a major challenge in creating a seamless statewide system that is universally available no matter where a patient is treated or by whom. 
 If a state is to capture economic benefits promised by electronic health records -- including reductions in medical errors and duplication of tests -- doctors treating patients within the state's Medicaid program, for example, will need access to patients' records no matter where the patient shows up. 
 Ms. Takai acknowledged that Michigan, like many states, must also face the big job of bringing state-owned hospitals and other medical facilities up to speed in information technology. The state-owned facilities ''are in serious need of upgrade,'' she said. 
 Some states are taking steps to modernize their facilities, and Dr. Kizer of Medsphere says that state and county governments represent another facet of the market. West Virginia contracted with Medsphere to establish electronic health records in seven of its facilities, which range from hospitals to nursing homes to psychiatric hospitals, using its less expensive open-access system. 
 But health experts caution that many of these efforts have a long way to go toward meeting the federal government's goal of having interoperable electronic health records by 2014. 
 ''We're seeing real forward movement, but it's still early,'' Ms. Marchibroda said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Richard Turtletaub)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (93%); MEDICAL RECORDS (93%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%) Medicine and Health; Computers and the Internet; Doctors ; States (US); Medicine and Health

PERSON: Reed Abelson

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



547 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Dow Climbs 93 Points and Posts Its Second-Highest Close

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks extended their rally yesterday, lifting the Dow Jones industrial average to the second-highest close in its history after a rebound in consumer confidence suggested that household spending would keep the economy from faltering.
 ''We're slowing down to a more sustainable pace of growth with not a lot of inflation, and that's good for the market,'' said Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis. ''Consumers are out there spending money.''
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 93.58 points, or 0.81 percent, to 11,669.39, closing 54 points within the record of 11,722.98 set on Jan. 14, 2000. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 9.97 points, or 0.75 percent, to 1,336.34. 
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 12.27 points, or 0.55 percent, to 2.261.34.
 Some 1.72 billion shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 The Conference Board said its index of consumer sentiment climbed to 104.5 this month from a revised reading of 100.2 in August.
 Also, the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond said manufacturing in the central Atlantic region expanded at a quicker pace this month, with factory shipments increasing after a contraction in August. 
 Yesterday's data contrasted with the Philadelphia Fed's report last week that showed an unexpected drop in manufacturing.
 General Motors, Walt Disney and Intel led the Dow's advance.
 G.M. jumped 81 cents, to $31.41. Its chief financial officer, Frederick A. Henderson, said the company is focused on increasing profits in Europe and will give careful study to a proposed alliance with Renault and Nissan.
 Intel gained 55 cents, to $19.96. In a bid to stem market share gains by its rival, Advanced Micro Devices, Intel will introduce the first so-called quad-core chips in November. 
 Shares of Advanced Micro slid 78 cents, to $25.99.
 Walt Disney rose 91 cents, to $31.07.
 Steel makers set the pace for the S.& P. 500 after Reliance Steel and Aluminum, a metals distributor, raised its quarterly forecast because of rising demand. Reliance soared $3.84, to $33.06.
 Allegheny Technologies, a stainless steel producer, surged $4.26, to $63.28. United States Steel rose $2.58, to $57.57, and Nucor added $2.30 to $49.47.
 EBay jumped $1.45, to $27.67. A Goldman Sachs analyst, Anthony Noto, reiterated his buy rating on the Internet auctioneer, saying investments in the first half of the year and listings growth will increase revenue.
 Crude oil for November delivery dropped 44 cents, to $61.01 a barrel in New York. The 13 percent decline in oil prices this month has helped shore up consumer confidence even as housing weakens.
 Evidence of the weakening property market abounds. Lowe's, the home improvement retailer, rose 1 cent, to $28.85, even after the company cut its profit forecasts for a third time this year amid the housing slump. Its larger rival, Home Depot, gained 4 cents, to $36.62.
 The home builder Lennar said profit fell 39 percent last quarter on costs for incentives to lure buyers. Still, its shares rose 7 cents, to $46.95.
 PMC-Sierra, a maker of semiconductors for telecommunications equipment, retreated 55 cents, to $6, after it cut its quarterly sales forecast because of a drop in demand.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.58 percent, from 4.54 percent on Monday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, declined 10/32, to 102 9/32. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.646
High Rate: 4.545
Coupon Yield: 4.624
Low Rate: 4.500
Median Rate: 4.540
Total applied for: $31,542,367
Accepted: $11,313,767
Noncompetitive: $287,657

The four-week bills mature October 26, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); SHIPMENTS (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); MARKET SHARE (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (67%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (62%); PUBLIC FINANCE (62%); METALS & MINERALS WHOLESALERS (61%); HOME CENTERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (68%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (64%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (59%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); INTEL CORP (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (54%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); RELIANCE STEEL & ALUMINUM CO (52%); ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INC (52%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (51%)

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (64%); AMD (FRA) (64%); GS (NYSE) (59%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%); DIS (NYSE) (54%); RS (NYSE) (52%); ATI (NYSE) (52%); X (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (52%); NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (52%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3325 STEEL FOUNDRIES, NEC (52%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (52%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (51%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



548 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: A New Orleans Project Is Missing Some Pieces 

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
Judah Hertz, a Santa Monica, Calif., real estate investor, has sometimes been compared to Larry Silverstein, the New York developer who signed a long-term lease for the World Trade Center just six weeks before the twin towers were destroyed by terrorists.
 Mr. Hertz entered the downtown office market here in late 2002, buying four prime buildings -- one-fourth of the inventory -- in the three years before Hurricane Katrina.
Now some people associated with another outsider, the hotel magnate Laurence S. Geller, are calling Mr. Hertz a spoiler, saying he is threatening to undermine the only large downtown commercial development project that has been proposed here since the storm. Mr. Hertz said he had been unfairly cast as a villain by Mr. Geller's allies. 
 In contrast to this city's devastated residential neighborhoods, the compact central business district along Poydras Street has mostly managed to rebound from the hurricane, despite water and wind damage. 
 But three buildings in one pocket near the Superdome were hit by severe gusts, maybe even a minitornado -- the 1,184-room Hyatt Regency, the 26-story Dominion Tower office building and the New Orleans Shopping Centre -- and they have not reopened.
 In May, Mr. Geller, the chief executive of Strategic Hotels and Resorts, the real estate investment trust that has owned the Hyatt Regency since 1997, announced a plan to rehabilitate the hotel as part of an ambitious 20-acre project that would include a six-block park, public buildings and a jazz center. As originally envisioned, the park would replace the long-troubled mall, and municipal offices would move from the damaged City Hall to the 1989 Dominion Tower, the last office building to rise downtown. 
 But the mall, the office tower and 3,000 parking spaces belong to the Hertz Investment Group. And Mr. Hertz, the chief executive, said he never had a written agreement to sell them to Strategic -- a fact not disclosed when the project was made public. Mr. Hertz said this was like claiming to buy a corporate office building and then accusing the owner of being a bad company for not selling it. ''I know it sounds crazy, but that's just what happened to me.''
 As is usually the case, the dispute hinges on price. 
 ''He's got something he thinks is more valuable than someone else does,'' said Mr. Geller, who has likened his $725 million project to the acclaimed Millennium Park in Chicago, where Strategic is based. ''He wants a high price -- and he wants his money now, far exceeding its current value.'' 
 Strategic's broker, Michael J. Siegel, an executive vice president of Corporate Realty, a regional company, estimated the combined value of the shopping center, the office building and the garage at no more than $50 million, well below Mr. Hertz's valuation of more than $70 million. But Mr. Hertz said that rather than sell Dominion Tower, he intends to rent it to the city or find other office tenants.
 Mr. Hertz said Mr. Geller may just be stalling. ''I'm very surprised they think now that I was asking too much money,'' Mr. Hertz said. ''I believe he hasn't finished his deal yet. If it's not done, what's the point of making a deal with me at any price?'' 
 New Orleans has experienced plenty of failed real estate projects over the years, and Mr. Geller's plan to create a tourist magnet, which he said would generate thousands of jobs and pump billions of dollars into the city's struggling economy, has met with some skepticism. He has committed $200 million of his company's money and insurance proceeds to the project, but acknowledges that even with capital from a variety of other sources, a $225 million gap remains.
 Not incidentally, the project would also improve the prospects for the Hyatt Regency, which was fighting for customers even before the hurricane because it is not near the French Quarter or the Ernest N. Morial Convention Center. Strategic owns 19 other luxury hotels. 
 Mr. Hertz also seemed to face many challenges when he began buying office buildings along Poydras Street, beginning with the 27-story Poydras Center. The market, though stable, did not seem to offer much opportunity for growth, causing real estate specialists to wonder, ''What does he know that we don't know?'' said Greg Riera, a vice president at Jones Lang LaSalle, which manages two buildings on Poydras. ''But the price was right.''
 Just before Katrina, Mr. Hertz bought the Louisiana Land and Exploration Company Building, a 36-story tower at 909 Poydras (one of the city's two best addresses) and the 32-story Texaco Center at 400 Poydras -- from Equity Office Properties Trust, the large Chicago REIT. Equity Office, which still owns one complex in suburban Metairie, has been streamlining its portfolio and getting out of markets without robust job growth. 
 Richard D. Kincaid, Equity Office's chief executive, said that when his company bought the two buildings on Poydras Street in 1997, New Orleans was still a big regional oil and gas hub. ''But then company after company exited and consolidated in Houston,'' Mr. Kincaid said. ''There was not a lot of industry other than tourism and that doesn't generate a lot of jobs.'' Equity Office sold the buildings for less than it paid for them, Mr. Kincaid said.
 Mr. Hertz's leasing agent, Bryan Burns III, a senior vice president at Transwestern Commercial Services, described his client as a long-term investor. ''He's an entrepreneurial opportunistic buyer,'' Mr. Burns said. ''His horizon is not short term. He felt confident there would be substantial value enhancements.''
 In the aftermath of the storm, the commercial office market has turned out to be one of the few bright spots in the city's economy. In the prime downtown buildings, occupancy stands at 91.2 percent, up from 86.8 percent before the hurricane, according to Equity Office. Rents are beginning to rise and landlords are regaining the upper hand in the marketplace, although the higher rents are being offset by increased operating costs, especially for insurance, said Mr. Siegel of Corporate Realty. 
 ''Our office market has been flat for the past two decades,'' he said. ''If somebody had told me in October or November last year that we would have been at this point, I wouldn't have believed it.''
 Much of that gain can be attributed to the closing of the 487,000-square-foot Dominion Tower, which shrank the prime office market to 8.8 million square feet. Four second-tier buildings are also not expected to reopen. But most of the city's major employers -- including Shell Oil, Entergy and Dominion -- returned, though usually with fewer workers. One downtown company, Chevron, is moving to the suburbs. 
 Some of the demand downtown has come from government agencies, construction companies and engineering firms responding to the storm, but space is being leased at a slower pace than it was initially, said Brian Rourke, a broker with Latter & Blum, a local company. 
 Ryan W. Sweet, an associate economist at Moody's economy.com, said Katrina had not generated the number of recovery-associated jobs expected after a hurricane because so much of the local population was displaced and may never return.
 The city's plight makes it all the more important to get the so-called Hyatt Jazz District built, with or without Mr. Hertz's cooperation, Mr. Geller said. He said the project's master planner, Thom Mayne, a Pritzker-Prize-winning architect, is working on new blueprints to reorient the project so that it does not have a dead mall in the middle of it.
 ''I will not let the city down because of one man's recalcitrance and belief that an asset is worth more than it's worth,'' Mr. Geller said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Dominion Tower is behind the left edge of the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans. The Hyatt Regency is to the right of the Dominion. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); RESORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HURRICANES (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Retail Stores and Trade; Shopping Centers; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (57%); STRATEGIC HOTELS & RESORTS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Hertz Investment group; Strategic Hotels and Resorts

TICKER: H (NYSE) (57%); BEE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (57%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (55%)

PERSON: Judah Hertz; Laurence S Geller; Terry Pristin; Michael Siegel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La); New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



549 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: The Choice: A Longer Life Or More Stuff

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The most authoritative report on the cost of health insurance came out yesterday, and it's sure to cause some new outrage.
 The average cost of a family insurance plan that Americans get through their jobs has risen another 7.7 percent this year, to $11,500, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. In only seven years, the cost has doubled, while incomes and company revenue, which pay for health insurance, haven't risen nearly as much.
 These spiraling costs -- a phrase that has virtually become a prefix for the words ''health care'' -- are slowly creating a crisis. Many executives have decided that they cannot afford to keep insuring their workers, and the portion of Americans without coverage has jumped 23 percent since 1987. 
 An industry that once defined the American economy, meanwhile, is sinking in large measure because of the cost of caring for its workers and retirees. For every vehicle that General Motors sells, fully $1,500 of the purchase price goes to pay for medical care. ''We must all do more to cut costs,'' G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, said on Capitol Hill this summer while testifying about health care.
 Mr. Wagoner's argument has become the accepted wisdom about the crisis: the solution lies in restraining costs. Yet it's wrong. Living in a society that spends a lot of money on medical care creates real problems, but it also has something in common with getting old. It's better than the alternative. 
 To understand why, it helps to look back to a time when Americans didn't worry much about health care costs. In 1950, the country spent less than $100 a year -- or $500 in today's dollars -- on the average person's medical care, compared with almost $6,000 now, notes David M. Cutler, an economist who wrote a wonderful little book in 2004 titled, ''Your Money or Your Life.'' 
 Most families in the 1950's paid their medical bills with ease, but they also didn't expect much in return. After a century of basic health improvements like indoor plumbing and penicillin, many experts thought that human beings were approaching the limits of longevity. ''Modern medicine has little to offer for the prevention or treatment of chronic and degenerative diseases,'' the biologist Rene Dubos wrote in the 1960's.
 But then doctors figured out that high blood pressure and high cholesterol caused heart attacks, and they developed new treatments. Oncologists learned how to attack leukemia, enabling most children who receive a diagnosis of it today to triumph over a disease that was almost inevitably fatal a half-century ago. In the last few years, orphan drugs that combat rare diseases and medical devices like the implantable defibrillator have extended lives. Human longevity still hasn't hit the wall that was feared 50 years ago.
 Instead, a baby born in the United States this year will live to age 78 on average, a decade longer than the average baby born in 1950. People who have already made it to their 40's can now expect to reach age 80. These gains are probably bigger than the ones the British experienced in the entire millennium leading up to 1800. If you think about this as the return on the investments in medicine, the payoff has been fabulous: Would you prefer spending an extra $5,500 on health care every year -- or losing 10 years off your lifespan? 
 Yet we often imagine that the costs and benefits are unrelated, that we can somehow have 2006 health care at 1950 (or even 1999) prices. We think of health care as if it were gasoline, a product whose price and quality have nothing to do with each other.
 There is no question that the American medical system does suffer from a lot of waste, be it insurance industry bureaucracy or expensive procedures that haven't been proven effective. But the No. 1 cause of the cost increases is still the one you can see at the hospital and in your medicine cabinet -- defibrillators, chemotherapy, cholesterol drugs, neonatal care and other treatments that are both expensive and effective. 
 Not even most forms of preventive care, like keeping diabetes under control, usually save money, despite what many people think. The care itself has some costs, and, more important, patients then live longer than they otherwise would have and rack up medical bills. ''When I make this point, people accuse me of wanting people to die earlier. But it's exactly the opposite,'' Dr. Jay Bhattacharya, a researcher at Stanford Medical School, told me. ''If these expenditures are keeping people alive, it's money well spent.'' 
 As Dr. Mark R. Chassin of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York says, ''You almost always spend money to gain health.'' Of course, the opposite is also true: the best way to reduce health care spending is to reduce health care itself.
 Which is exactly what we're starting to do. The growing number of families without health insurance are, in effect, families who have been kicked off the country's health care rolls. Many will go without available treatment, will get sicker than they need to get -- and will thereby save the rest of us money. They are what now passes for a solution to the health care mess. 
 The current situation is indeed unsustainable, a point that the conventional wisdom has right. The cost of health insurance can't keep doubling every seven years, and wasteful spending -- the brand-name drugs that are no better than generics, the treatments that haven't been proved to extend lives or improve health -- does need to be reined in. 
 But far too much of the discussion has been centered on this narrow idea. Somehow, going to the mall to buy clothes has come to be seen as a vaguely patriotic way to keep the economy humming, and taking out a risky mortgage is considered to be an investment in one's future. But medical care? That's just a cost.
 It's easy to be against high costs, and it will no doubt be hard to come up with a broad health care solution. But the way to start is by acknowledging that an affluent society should devote an ever-growing share of its resources to the health of its citizens. ''We have enough of the basics in life,'' Mr. Cutler, the economist and author, points out. ''What we really want are the time and the quality of life to enjoy them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); CANCER (84%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LEUKEMIA (78%); FAMILY (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); CHRONIC DISEASES (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MEDICAL DEVICES (72%); ANTIBIOTICS (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); CHILDREN (66%); CHOLESTEROL (65%); ONCOLOGY (64%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (64%); ORPHAN DRUGS (64%); HEART DISEASE (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); CANCER DRUGS (61%); HYPERTENSION (60%) Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Heart; Defibrillators; Cancer; Chemotherapy; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) ; Cholesterol; Children and Youth; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Medicine and Health; Labor; Automobiles; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (52%) David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



550 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Costs Rise Twice as Much as Inflation 

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
The cost of living keeps going up, but the cost of healthy living is going up even faster.
 A widely followed national survey reported yesterday that the cost of employee health care coverage rose 7.7 percent this year, more than double the overall inflation rate and well ahead of the increase in the incomes of workers.
The 7.7 percent increase was the lowest since 1999. But the average cost to employees continued an upward trend, reaching $2,973 annually for family coverage out of a total cost of $11,481. 
 Since 2000, the cost of family coverage has risen 87 percent while consumer prices are up 18 percent and the pay of workers has increased 20 percent, the survey noted. That is without counting the cost of deductibles and other out-of-pocket payments, which have also been rising. 
 ''The cost trend is moderating but nobody is celebrating,'' said Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, which sponsored the survey with the Health Research and Educational Trust. ''Businesses and workers are still being slammed year after year by rising health costs.'' 
 Despite the increasing costs, about 6 out of 10 employers still offer health coverage to attract and retain workers. But the growth in premiums is making it harder and harder for companies to raise wages and salaries. 
 The telephone survey of 3,159 randomly selected employers, ranging in size from three to more than 300,000 employees, was completed last May.
 The continuing rise in the cost of benefits has slowed since the annual double-digit increases that peaked at nearly 14 percent in 2003. Last year's increase was 9.2 percent, the Kaiser survey said.
 ''It's slightly good news,'' said Helen Darling, president of the National Business Group on Health, a large employers' research and trade group in Washington. ''It could have been worse but we certainly haven't solved all the problems.''
 She added, ''The workers of the United States continue to give their pay raises to the health system.'' 
 Some business leaders took a more upbeat view of the survey results. ''It's a very positive sign that the increases were lower than the previous year,'' said Katie Mahoney, health policy director of the United States Chamber of Commerce.
 Smaller employers, with fewer than 200 workers, faced larger increases than big companies, the survey said. 
 ''We were looking at an increase of about 18 percent for 2006,'' said Mitch Flinchman, controller of Triangle Grading & Paving, a construction company with 100 employees in Burlington, N.C. The company switched to a different insurer but ''still ended up with about an 8 percent increase, and it will probably go up more next year,'' he said.
 The national cost trend would probably have been higher, analysts said, but regulators in a number of states were able to push nonprofit Blue Cross plans that are prosperous to hold down their increases, at least for a while.
 In fact, the nonprofit Blue Cross plans actually had a 27 percent decline in operating profits in the first half of the year, compared with the period in 2005, said Matthew Borsch, a health care analyst at Goldman Sachs. 
 Tom Zimmerman said his family-owned business in Livonia, Mich., had been paying double-digit increases every year to Michigan Blue Cross and Blue Shield, until this year, when premiums rose only 2 percent. Even so, his company, Spectrum Automation, is spending $250,000 this year to cover 20 employees, he said.
 ''Our wages have stagnated while Mr. Blue Cross and Blue Shield takes our raises,'' Mr. Zimmerman said.
 Employees pay about 16 percent of premiums, or about $3,497 of an average total of $11,793, for smaller companies with fewer than 200 workers in preferred provider networks, the most common type of health plan. Workers in larger companies contributed less to premiums: $2,628, and employers put in $9,124 for a total of $11,752. 
 The lowest premiums were for high-deductible health plans, sometimes tied to pretax savings accounts. The White House has been pushing these plans as a way to slow costs by giving consumers more say over their medical treatments. Business groups and health care consultants support the plans.
 The workers' share of premiums for family coverage in these plans was $2,247, on average. The high-deductible plans covered 2.7 million workers, including 1.4 million in the newer health savings account plans.
 Mr. Altman said that despite ''all the talk and debate about these plans, only a very modest number of workers are in these consumer-driven arrangements. It is still early,'' he added. ''They are likely to grow, but how fast and how much is still very much an open question.''
 Douglass Community Services, a nonprofit agency with 120 employees that manages the Head Start early childhood learning program in northeast Missouri, switched to a high-deductible plan this year, rather than face a 20 percent increase in premiums for its preferred provider organization.
 Janeane Reis, human resources director of the agency in Hannibal, Mo., said its premiums increased by 10 percent, even with the high deductible plan. Employees pay all of their costs up to $1,000. Then, the agency covers them for the next $1,500, she said. Above that, they are covered for 80 percent of medical fees in a preferred provider network and 50 percent if they go to doctors outside the network.
 ''We will probably stay with this at least another year,'' she said. ''It's tough being in a rural area. We don't have many choices and being a not-for-profit, we work on a very slim margin.'' 
 It can be even more difficult for individuals with health problems.
 Billy Lassiter, an independent inspector of oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, had to give up his coverage for a year after his insurer raised the premiums to $1,800 a month and refused to pay about $5,000 in medical bills, according to Faye Lassiter, who keeps the accounts for her husband, who has overcome several bouts with lung cancer.
 ''They wouldn't hardly pay anything,'' she said. The couple were not able to find a new insurer until they persuaded their son Shannon, a railroad conductor, to join them. As a three-person business in Atmore, Ala., they were able to obtain coverage from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama, she said.
 Premiums were $800 a month last year and increased $100, or 12.5 percent for 2006. She said Mr. Lassiter had to skip his annual CT scan last fall while he waited a year before the new coverage kicked in. ''We couldn't afford the cost of the scan,'' Mrs. Lassiter said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''COST OF HEALTH COVERAGE FOR FAMILIES''Graph tracks workers' share and companies' share since 1999.2006Workers' share: $2,973Companies' share: $8,508(Source by Kaiser Family Foundation)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Still Going Up but Not as Fast''The cost of health insurance premiums rose 7.7 percent this year, the slowest growth since 1999, but that was still more than twice the pace of inflation or workers' earnings.Graph tracks change in cost of health insurance for family of four (including inflation, not including medical care* and change in workers' hourly earnings*) since 1988.*April to April(Sources by Kaiser Family Foundation
Haver Analytics
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COST OF LIVING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (77%); INSURANCE (76%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%) Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: TRIANGLE GRADING & PAVING INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Kaiser Family Foundation; Health Research & Educational Trust

PERSON: Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



551 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Gas Prices Lift Consumer Mood; Some Concerns Persist on Jobs

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Falling gasoline prices helped ease American shoppers' worries in September, sending a gauge of consumer sentiment higher than analysts had expected.
 The Conference Board, a private research group based in New York, said yesterday that its consumer confidence index rebounded to 104.5 from a revised reading of 100.2 in August. Analysts had expected the index to rise to 103. The reading, the highest since 107 in July, followed a big dip in August, when employment worries dragged down consumer sentiment. 
The board's present situation index, which measures how shoppers feel now about economic conditions, rose to 127.7 from 123.9. Its expectations index, which measures consumers' outlook over the next six months, rose to 89.0 from 84.4 last month.
 ''What we are seeing is an easing of concerns,'' said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's consumer research center. ''People are becoming less pessimistic, not significantly more optimistic.''
 Lower prices at the pump have helped lift consumer sentiment, economists said. Over the last month, the retail price of gasoline fell 50 cents, or 17 percent, to average $2.38 a gallon nationwide, according to Energy Department statistics. That is 42.5 cents lower than a year earlier and compares with a nationwide record of $3.023 a gallon reported early in August.
 Also important, according to economists, is that the job market was steady, although the consumers asked still showed some concerns about jobs in the latest survey, Ms. Franco said. The Labor Department's latest report on employment showed a modest increase in jobs in August, with wages barely higher.
 Ms. Franco cautioned that although many consumers' concerns had eased, ''there is little to suggest a significant change in economic activity as we enter the final quarter of 2006.''
 The consumer confidence report was derived from responses through Sept. 19 to a survey mailed to 5,000 households in a research panel.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Confidence''Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100.Graph tracks attitudes toward the economy since 2005.(Source by The Conference Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%) United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



552 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: New Ideals for Building In the Face of Modernism

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
Who will stand up to the giants of Modernism? That was the question facing a group of young European architects in the early 1950's. Chafing within the confines of a functionalist orthodoxy that tended to reduce human individuals to numbers on a chart, they banded together under the name Team 10 to propose architecture grounded in a sense of community identity. But some critics felt that the results never matched the rhetoric, that the group's designs often seemed more like a timid appeal for the old man's approval than an insolent rejection of the past.
 ''Team 10: A Utopia of the Present,'' a small but provocative show at the Yale School of Architecture, weaves a portrait of the Modern movement that suggests it was wider-ranging in its ideals than most people think. In the group's ability to slip so casually between scales -- embracing both narrow urban alleys and sprawling neighborhoods -- its work anticipates the freewheeling computer-generated designs of today. And the Oedipal theme will resonate with many young architects growing up in the shadow of the Rem Koolhaases and Zaha Hadids of this world. 
Team 10's main enemy was the old guard that ruled C.I.A.M., the influential International Congress of Modern Architecture, which met periodically to map out the Modern movement's goals. To a younger generation, the congress's dogmatic approach to planning -- its disregard for individual difference and, above all, its uncritical support for the high-rise housing blocks that were draining the life out of inner cities -- had become as suffocating as the stylistic rules of the old Beaux-Arts academy.
 Team 10 proposed restoring the sense of fine-grained context that Modernism had lost sight of. Up with the short, narrow street of the working-class neighborhood; down with the outsize tower in the park. Up with community meetings; down with the omnipotent architect. 
 In practice, of course, Team 10's principles were never so clear, and the most provocative proposals carried the seeds of inner doubt. 
 Peter and Alison Smithson's 1958 entry in a competition for East Berlin, for example, depicts a matrix of elevated streets and sleekly modern towers superimposed over that city's historic core. It is an obvious critique of the tabula rasa planning of architects like Le Corbusier, who dreamed of razing vast swaths of the urban landscape to impose his vision of a motorized city. Yet the Smithson model also underscores the obsolescence of the old city, making clear that its romantic domes, poking up through the network of freeways, walkways and escalators, have been superseded by a city hellbent on the future.
 When the Smithsons actually put their vision into practice, problems arose. Despite their community ethos, their best-known urban project, Robin Hood Gardens, a pair of multilevel housing blocks completed in the East End of London in 1972, is painfully detached from its surroundings. Elevated walkways conceived as extensions of the streets below became sad, lifeless places; the uniformity of the buildings' prefabricated concrete facades was more alienating than anything Le Corbusier had designed.
 The most gratifying work in the show, jointly organized by the Netherlands Architecture Institute and Delft University of Technology, is generally conceived on a more manageable scale. Aldo van Eyck's wonderful municipal orphanage in Amsterdam, completed in 1960, is a series of interlocking domed pavilions arranged around open-air courts, a potent expression of individual lives bound into a collective whole. Also on view is a delicate little drawing of his proposed Wheels of Heaven Church (1963), a polycentric composition of circular chambers connected by a broad internal street, evoking the church's atavistic function as a temporary refuge.
 Giancarlo De Carlo, a Team 10 architect working within the delicate historical fabric of ancient Italian hill towns, was particularly attuned to the tensions between history and modernity. In a design for a university complex in Urbino, Italy, he carved out the core of an old monastery and embedded a theater, library and study rooms within its ancient walls. Capped by a conical roof that calls to mind a mechanical glass eye, the design respects the past without pandering to it.
 But the big discovery here is the work of largely forgotten architects like Georges Candilis, Alexis Josic and Shadrach Woods. In a joint design like a 1963 master plan for the Romerberg area of Frankfurt, which was ravaged by World War II, they imagined a layered web: a flexible network of rooms, patios and streets that could continually be readapted by the city's inhabitants. Conceived to ''soften the difference in scale between building and city,'' the structure uncannily anticipated some of the computer-generated designs common in today's graduate studios, and the current obsession with creating fluid landscapes that dissolve the boundaries between city buildings and streets.
 In the late 1960's those three, working as a trio, refashioned their proposal in modest form for the Free University of Berlin. But the introverted world of academia was not the logical setting for a fluid urban scheme. The Frankfurt and Berlin projects have the aura of experiments whose potential has yet to be fully explored.
 Team 10 never achieved its goals; despite proclamations about rooting their work in everyday realities, few of its members escaped the towering shadow of the old guard. Nor could its members anticipate how quickly their earnest, methodical approach to architecture would lose favor. By the early 1970's architects like Superstudio and Archigram had retreated into total fantasy, proposing ''walking'' cities that evoked mechanical buffalo and glass-and-steel structures that extended across entire continents.
 Thirty years later, architects are still struggling to solve the problems of large-scale urban housing. Cities are booming at a pace unseen in generations, yet a clear answer remains elusive. 

''Team 10: A Utopia of the Present'' is at the Yale School of Architecture in New Haven through Oct. 20; www.architecture.yale.edu/gallery.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an architecture review on Wednesday about an exhibition at Yale University focusing on the Team 10 architectural alliance, which formed in reaction to Modernism, misidentified the movement described in the review as ''wider-ranging in its ideals than most people think.'' It was Team 10, not the Modern movement.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dreams and designs: Right, Il Magistero, a university building in Urbino, Italy, designed in 1968-76 by Giancarlo De Carlo
and far right, Aldo van Eyck's orphanage, completed in Amsterdam in 1960, are featured in ''Team 10,'' a show at the Yale School of Architecture.
 Bucking Modernists, a little: In 1958 Peter and Alison Smithson envisioned an East Berlin with modern elements atop a historic core, as shown in ''Team 10: A Utopia of the Present.'' (Photographs from ''Team 10: In Search of a Utopia of the Present'' (NAi Publishers, Rotterdam)(pg. E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%) Architecture; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%) Yale University

PERSON: Nicolai Ouroussoff

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (56%) NETHERLANDS (92%); GERMANY (92%); ITALY (78%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



553 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Passing the Buck to Mom and Dad

 BODY:
Many middle-class young adults are staying on their parents' health insurance long after college these days. It's an interesting trend. But in no way is it a solution to the growing problem of the uninsured. If anything, it is a stopgap measure that helps the more fortunate while sapping the political will for sweeping change. 
 With 47 million Americans uninsured, the nation's health system is in crisis. More and more people are seeking treatment in emergency rooms because they have nowhere else to go. By one estimate, unpaid hospital bills have reached $45 billion annually, raising the cost of health insurance by 8.5 percent for those who are insured.
Among the uninsured are more than a quarter of adults between ages 18 and 34. As Jennifer Lee reported recently in The Times, states are responding to the problem with legislation to allow children to stay on their parents' health insurance longer. New Jersey is one of eight states that have passed such a ''piggyback'' statute just since 2003.
 College graduates in fields like media and computer technology are at the leading edge of the changing American economy, where the individual carries the bulk of the risk. For young American workers, benefits have become negotiable rather than part of the social contract. Many end up opting out of health insurance entirely, choosing to wager on their relative good health to avoid spending the hundreds of dollars a month that self-insuring can cost.
 But the troubled American health-insurance system finds itself in a vicious circle as a result. The higher premiums climb (twice as fast as wages this year, according to a new study), the less likely the young and healthy are to participate. That, in turn, skews the pool of the insured even older and more infirm, making coverage still more expensive and less appealing to those who bet they can do without.
 The families that can best afford to take advantage of the piggyback laws are those that could already pay for separate coverage anyway. And these laws, by making life easier for those who have the most political influence and resources, reduce elected officials' incentive to do what is really needed and find a more comprehensive national solution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); TRENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (65%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Children and Youth; Age, Chronological; Editorials

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



554 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Declassified Key Judgments of the National Intelligence Estimate on Global Terrorism

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Following are the portions of the National Intelligence Estimate dealing with the key judgments, dated April 2006, that were released Tuesday by the Bush administration

 United States-led counterterrorism efforts have seriously damaged the leadership of Al Qaeda and disrupted its operations; however, we judge that Al Qaeda will continue to pose the greatest threat to the Homeland and U.S. interests abroad by a single terrorist organization. We also assess that the global jihadist movement -- which includes Al Qaeda, affiliated and independent terrorist groups, and emerging networks and cells -- is spreading and adapting to counterterrorism efforts.
 Although we cannot measure the extent of the spread with precision, a large body of all-source reporting indicates that activists identifying themselves as jihadists, although a small percentage of Muslims, are increasing in both number and geographic dispersion.
 If this trend continues, threats to U.S. interests at home and abroad will become more diverse, leading to increasing attacks worldwide. 
 Greater pluralism and more responsive political systems in Muslim majority nations would alleviate some of the grievances jihadists exploit. Over time, such progress, together with sustained, multifaceted programs targeting the vulnerabilities of the jihadist movement and continued pressure on Al Qaeda, could erode support for the jihadists. 
 We assess that the global jihadist movement is decentralized, lacks a coherent global strategy and is becoming more diffuse. New jihadist networks and cells, with anti-American agendas, are increasingly likely to emerge. The confluence of shared purpose and dispersed actors will make it harder to find and undermine jihadist groups. 
 We assess that the operational threat from self-radicalized cells will grow in importance to U.S. counterterrorism efforts, particularly abroad but also in the Homeland.
 The jihadists regard Europe as an important venue for attacking Western interests. Extremist networks inside the extensive Muslim diasporas in Europe facilitate recruitment and staging for urban attacks, as illustrated by the 2004 Madrid and 2005 London bombings. 
 We assess that the Iraq jihad is shaping a new generation of terrorist leaders and operatives; perceived jihadist success there would inspire more fighters to continue the struggle elsewhere. 
 The Iraq conflict has become the cause celebre for jihadists, breeding a deep resentment of U.S. involvement in the Muslim world and cultivating supporters for the global jihadist movement. Should jihadists leaving Iraq perceive themselves, and be perceived, to have failed, we judge fewer fighters will be inspired to carry on the fight. 
 We assess that the underlying factors fueling the spread of the movement outweigh its vulnerabilities and are likely to do so for the duration of the time frame of this Estimate. 
 Four underlying factors are fueling the spread of the jihadist movement: (1) entrenched grievances, such as corruption, injustice, and fear of Western domination, leading to anger, humiliation, and a sense of powerlessness; (2) the Iraq jihad; (3) the slow pace of real and sustained economic, social, and political reforms in many Muslim majority nations; and (4) pervasive anti-U.S. sentiment among most Muslims -- all of which jihadists exploit. 
 Concomitant vulnerabilities in the jihadist movement have emerged that, if fully exposed and exploited, could begin to slow the spread of the movement. They include dependence on the continuation of Muslim-related conflicts, the limited appeal of the jihadists' radical ideology, the emergence of respected voices of moderation and criticism of the violent tactics employed against mostly Muslim citizens.
 The jihadists' greatest vulnerability is that their ultimate political solution -- an ultraconservative interpretation of Shariah-based governance spanning the Muslim world -- is unpopular with the vast majority of Muslims. Exposing the religious and political straitjacket that is implied by the jihadists' propaganda would help to divide them from the audiences they seek to persuade. 
 Recent condemnations of violence and extremist religious interpretations by a few notable Muslim clerics signal a trend that could facilitate the growth of a constructive alternative to jihadist ideology: peaceful political activism. This also could lead to the consistent and dynamic participation of broader Muslim communities in rejecting violence, reducing the ability of radicals to capitalize on passive community support. In this way, the Muslim mainstream emerges as the most powerful weapon in the war on terror.
 Countering the spread of the jihadist movement will require coordinated multilateral efforts that go well beyond operations to capture or kill terrorist leaders. 
 If democratic reform efforts in Muslim majority nations progress over the next five years, political participation probably would drive a wedge between intransigent extremists and groups willing to use the political process to achieve their local objectives. Nonetheless, attendant reforms and potentially destabilizing transitions will create new opportunities for jihadists to exploit.
 Al Qaeda, now merged with Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's network, is exploiting the situation in Iraq to attract new recruits and donors and to maintain its leadership role. 
 The loss of key leaders, particularly Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahri, and al-Zarqawi, in rapid succession, probably would cause the group to fracture into smaller groups. Although like-minded individuals would endeavor to carry on the mission, the loss of these key leaders would exacerbate strains and disagreements. We assess that the resulting splinter groups would, at least for a time, pose a less serious threat to U.S. interests than does Al Qaeda. 
 Should al-Zarqawi continue to evade capture and scale back attacks against Muslims, we assess he could broaden his popular appeal and present a global threat. 
 The increased role of Iraqis in managing the operations of Al Qaeda in Iraq might lead veteran foreign jihadists to focus their efforts on external operations. 
 Other affiliated Sunni extremist organizations, such as Jemaah Islamiya, Ansar al Sunna, and several North African groups, unless countered, are likely to expand their reach and become more capable of multiple and/or mass-casualty attacks outside their traditional areas of operation. 
 We assess that such groups pose less of a danger to the Homeland than does Al Qaeda but will pose varying degrees of threat to our allies and to U.S. interests abroad. The focus of their attacks is likely to ebb and flow between local regime targets and regional or global ones. 
 We judge that most jihadist groups -- both well-known and newly formed -- will use improvised explosive devices and suicide attacks focused primarily on soft targets to implement their asymmetric warfare strategy, and that they will attempt to conduct sustained terrorist attacks in urban environments. Fighters with experience in Iraq are a potential source of leadership for jihadists pursuing these tactics. 
 CBRN [chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear weapons] capabilities will continue to be sought by jihadist groups. While Iran, and to a lesser extent Syria, remain the most active state sponsors of terrorism, many other states will be unable to prevent territory or resources from being exploited by terrorists. 
 Anti-U.S. and anti-globalization sentiment is on the rise and fueling other radical ideologies. This could prompt some leftist, nationalist, or separatist groups to adopt terrorist methods to attackU.S. interests. The radicalization process is occurring more quickly, more widely, and more anonymously in the Internet age, raising the likelihood of surprise attacks by unknown groups whose members and supporters may be difficult to pinpoint. 
 We judge that groups of all stripes will increasingly use the Internet to communicate, propagandize, recruit, train and obtain logistical and financial support. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (95%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TRENDS (77%); POLITICS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Intelligence Services; Islam

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



555 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Soldier Sentenced to Four Years in Prison for Maiming New Recruit

BYLINE: Compiled by MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

 BODY:
Top stories in Russian newspapers on Wednesday.

GAZETA

SOLDIER ABUSE TRIAL ENDS -- A Chelyabinsk military court on Tuesday sentenced the main defendant in the case of a soldier maimed during a hazing incident to four years in prison. Junior Sergeant Aleksandr Sivyakov was also stripped of his rank and will not be able to hold a command position in the Russian military for three years. Both sides in the case plan to file appeals. 


UKRAINE, RUSSIA CLASH OVER FAMINE -- A request by Ukraines foreign minister that the United Nations recognize the famine of 1932-1933 as genocide against the Ukrainian people has put further strain on the countrys relations with Russia. Moscow labeled the appeal an anti-Russian demarche. Russia voted against a similar initiative in 2003 and is expected to do so again if Ukraines current request comes to a vote before the U.N. General Assembly.

NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA

CONSTRUCTION OF BUSHEHR PLANT BACK ON TRACK -- Russian and Iranian officials signed an agreement on Tuesday to complete the Bushehr nuclear power plant in Iran November 2007. Russias participation in the project had been called into question by Irans vice president, who criticized Russian contractors for delays. In addition to work on Bushehr, Russias major nuclear plant construction company is vying with companies from the United States and France for an $8 billion contract to develop Chinas nuclear energy infrastructure.

LEADERS LECTURE YOUTH ON AUTHORITY -- The presidential administration and the United Russia Party held the first session of the School of Young Leaders on Tuesday, as part of a project to interest young people in political and business leadership. United Russias leaders, businessmen and leaders of professional unions, addressed about 400 school-aged students in seminars throughout the day. Representatives from opposition political parties were not invited.

KOMMERSANT

RUSSIAN PEACEKEEPERS MUST GO -- The ministers of foreign affairs of Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Moldova have agreed to create their own police force to replace Russian peacekeepers in post-Soviet conflict zones. At the same time, the pro-West quartet is lobbying the United Nations to adopt anti-Russian resolutions on conflicts in the region. According to the newspaper, these initiatives come in response to fears that Russia will soon recognize separatist republics in their territories, particularly in Georgia and Moldova.

NO TO REFERENDUM ON PUTINS THIRD TERM -- Russian citizens do not have the right to hold a referendum on a third presidential term for Vladimir Putin, the Central Elections Commission said on Tuesday. A civic organization in North Ossetia proposed such a referendum in September. By law, the State Duma, Federation Council and regional parliaments would have to approve a constitutional amendment changing the limit, which is now two terms of four years each.

VEDOMOSTI

RUSSIA SCORES LOW FOR COMPETITIVENESS -- Because of its lack of intellectual property protections and shoddy courts, Russia placed 62nd out of 115 countries in a World Economic Forum evaluation of countries competitiveness. The forum rated Russia the worst for the quality of its institutions. Russia scored well for its low level of state debt and its effective labor market. Russian and foreign investors, along with several economic experts, have expressed concern over what they see as systemic failures and bad government policies hurting Russias economic competitiveness.

NOVYE IZVESTIA

MOSCOWS TRASH PROBLEM -- According to Greenpeace, the level of garbage in Moscow has recently risen by between 5 and 9 percent, leading to the creation of unsanctioned garbage dumps, 158 of which were recorded in 2005. In a hearing last week on the citys garbage problem, Moscow Duma deputies blamed, above all, private garbage truck drivers who violate waste regulations. According to environmentalists, however, the main problem is a lack of modern technology for disposing of and recycling waste.

ROSSIISKAYA GAZETA

RUSSIAN PEACEKEEPERS READY FOR LEBANON -- The upper house of Russias parliament sanctioned on Tuesday the dispatch of Russian military engineers to Lebanon for peacekeeping missions. Russia rarely sends its troops abroad: the country sent an airborne unit a few years ago to Sierra Leone as part of a United Nations peacekeeping mission. The first battalion of Russian troops headed for the Middle East is expected to leave next Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); MILITARY COURTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); FAMINE (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); PEACEKEEPING (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LOBBYING (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); POLITICS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (53%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PLANT CONSTRUCTION CO (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2431 MILLWORK (67%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UKRAINE (94%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GEORGIA (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2006



556 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; ACCESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: A Pioneer Of the Web Campaigns For Internet 'Neutrality'

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
SIR TIM BERNERS-LEE was a software programmer working at the CERN physics research laboratory in Switzerland in the 1980's when he proposed the idea of a project based on hypertext -- linking documents with software pointers.
 The World Wide Web went online in 1991 and rapidly grew beyond the physics community. In 1994, Sir Tim founded the World Wide Web Consortium at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to promote open standards on the Internet. Earlier this year, he began speaking out in favor of ''Net neutrality.'' The term describes one side in the debate in the United States over whether Internet service providers should be able to control the order in which they route packets of data -- or even be able to reject those packets -- or whether they should be required to be neutral on the matter. For example, in some cases I.S.P.'s have restricted the routing of services provided by competitors like Internet phone calls. 
He answered questions earlier this month by telephone from Cambridge, Mass.

Q. Why did you decide to speak out on Net neutrality?

A. I have had an opinion on Net neutrality since I mentioned it in a book -- effectively, but not by that name -- a long time ago. It's not a new opinion and it's one thing that is shared by such a huge majority, if you like an unwritten assumption of the entire Internet culture. Someone actually thought to challenge it.

Q. Do you think you would be able to invent the Web today, given the barriers that are emerging?

A. You have to imagine the Net without the Web. I think I would be able to invent it today, but if we lose Net neutrality, then imagine a world in which it's much more difficult to invent the Web.

Q. Is your view that the anti-Net neutrality infrastructure actually threatens political democracy? Does it go beyond just the technical structure of the Internet?

A. Net neutrality is one of those principles, social principles, certainly now much more than a technical principle, which is very fundamental. When you break it, then it really depends how far you let things go. But certainly I think that the neutrality of the Net is a medium essential for democracy, yes -- if there is democracy and the way people inform themselves is to go onto the Web.

Q. So there are political consequences. Are there are also economic consequences? If so, what are they?

A. I think the people who talk about dismantling -- threatening -- Net neutrality don't appreciate how important it has been for us to have an independent market for productivity and for applications on the Internet.
 Now, if we compare what you can get into your home with earliest modems, it's maybe 1,000 times as fast. So that market has been very competitive, very successful. 
 And I think we wouldn't have seen this explosion in the exciting, tremendous diversity of the kind of things you see on the Web now. So in the future, obviously, we expect to see many more things. We expect to see, very importantly, television streaming over the Internet, which is going to make a very exciting market in television content and maybe entertainment, maybe educational ideas. 
 The people deploying these things rely on the fact that the Internet is sitting there waiting to carry whatever they can dream up.

Q. You wrote, at one point, that in the beginning, the data packets weren't inspected. Now I see that many modern routers do packet inspection as a matter of course. Does this make it too late? Is packet inspection by itself a threat to Net neutrality?

A. No, I think there's been some muddying the waters. Of course, if you're carrying high-resolution video, then you have to treat those packets, for example, differently from packets for chat sessions.
 So routers have to be smarter, and they are, to provide this very high functionality that we're asking of them now. Sometimes this involves looking inside the packet. And unfortunately we're also getting to the point where routers have to be able to protect themselves against malicious denial-of-service attacks and so on. 
 Meanwhile, the government is asking people to put snooping apparatus in routers, so there are all kinds of reasons why routers are starting to become smarter.
 That is not an excuse for changing the terms of service of the Internet. The fundamental thing about the Internet is that I connect to the Internet with a certain quality of service -- whether it is video- or audio-capable or whatever. If you've connected with the same form of service, then you and I can connect at that level. So if we have both paid for bidirectional, high-definition television, then you and I will also be able to exchange television broadcasts across the Internet. We shouldn't have to negotiate. So the fundamental thing we're talking about here is the deal between the user of the Internet and their Internet service provider.

Q. You've spoken about the concept of a Dark Net, which would balkanize the Internet. Do you have a nightmare scenario?

A. In the long term, I'm optimistic because I think even if the United States ends up faltering in its quest for Net neutrality, I think the rest of the world will be horrified, and there will be very strong pressure from other countries who will become a world separate from the U.S., where the Net is neutral. If things go wrong in the States, then I think the result could be that the United States would then have a less-competitive market where content providers could provide a limited selection of all the same old movies to their customers because they have a captive market.
 Meanwhile, in other countries, you'd get a much more dynamic and much more competitive market for television over the Internet. So that you'd end up finding that the U.S. would then fall behind and become less competitive until they saw what was going on and fixed it. I just hope we don't have to go through a dark period, a little dark ages while people experiment with dropping Net neutrality and then, perhaps, put it back.

Q. There are a couple of intriguing technologies on the horizon, and I've wondered whether they will play a positive role in this debate. One is new wireless broadband technologies, which may compete for the Internet-to-the-home market. The power line is also a potential avenue of the Internet into the consumer marketplace.

A. I think anything that opens up the competition is clearly going to affect the systems that are more closed. I don't know personally how much hope to put into things like power lines. And in a way, the Internet architecture does cry out against any form of restriction to it because it would just weaken it. And so it could be O.K. if there's an alternative way of getting the bits.

Q. Do you have a view about the behavior of the telephone companies in this debate? Is this simply traditional monopolist behavior, or is it more subtle? Have you talked to them to understand their motivations?

A. I have tried, when I've had the opportunity to find out, to understand their motivations, but I can't speak for them. So all I can do is guess. But my guess is that it's not that this is a nefarious planned plot to take over the Internet by a bunch of people who hate it. What I imagine is that it is simply the culture of companies, which have been using a particular business model for a very long time. So I think there is a clash of corporate cultures.

Q. What do you make of justifications involving quality of service, which would give certain types of Internet data, like voice and video, right of way over other kinds of data?

A. They say, ''It will cost us an awful lot of money for this quality of service, and therefore we will have to disband neutrality.'' They're not actually logical. Some people say perhaps we ought to be able to charge more for this very special high-bandwidth connectivity. Of course that's fine, charge more. Nobody is suggesting that you shouldn't be able to charge more for a video-capable Internet connection. That's no reason not to make it anything but neutral.


GRAPHIC: Photo: DATA FLOW -- Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, advocates ''Net neutrality,'' or limiting Internet service providers' control over information. (Photo by C. J. Gunther for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (69%) Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN LABORATORY FOR PARTICLE PHYSICS (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%)

PERSON: John Markoff; Tim Berners-Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



557 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer and Faso Sharply Debate Abortion, Ethics and School Financing

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Attorney General Eliot Spitzer and John Faso clashed last night in their first debate of the governor's race over school financing, abortion, gay marriage, ethics, and how to rejuvenate the upstate economy and a state government both portrayed as adrift.
 Mr. Faso, the former leader of the Republican minority in the State Assembly, repeatedly charged that the programs proposed during the campaign by Mr. Spitzer, a Democrat, would drive up spending and lead to tax increases down the road. Mr. Spitzer, who pledged that he would not raise taxes, painted Mr. Faso as being to the right of most New York Republicans, noting his opposition to abortion rights, among other things.
At times the two men grew testy. After sparring on school spending -- with Mr. Spitzer saying that he would settle a lawsuit requiring the state to spend more on education, and Mr. Faso warning that it could not be done without raising taxes -- Mr. Spitzer recited a quote from former Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan that he is fond of, to the effect that everyone is entitled to his own opinions, but not to his own facts. 
 ''Yeah, I've heard it,'' Mr. Faso replied. 
 ''Well, I know you've heard it, but let's live by it,'' Mr. Spitzer retorted.
 And Mr. Spitzer found himself on the defensive, thanks to the recent revelation that one of his Democratic allies, State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, had used a state worker to chauffeur his wife around for more than three years. Mr. Hevesi offered this week to reimburse the state for more than $82,000 to pay for the aide's services.
 Mr. Spitzer called Mr. Hevesi ''an honest, stupendous public servant'' but also had some harsh words for his ally. ''What Alan did was wrong, he has apologized, he has paid back'' he said. ''If anybody on my watch did that, trust me, there would be very serious consequences, because I do not tolerate that sort of abuse of the public fisc.''
 Mr. Faso, not surprisingly, was blunter. ''Alan Hevesi stole $82,000 from the people of the state, and the only reason we found out about it was because someone turned him in,'' he said. ''And Mr. Spitzer says he is honest? Alan Hevesi should resign his office because he's abused his public trust.''
 The debate, which was held at Cornell University in Ithaca and broadcast across the state on cable television, was actually something of a novelty by New York standards. It was the first time that the two major party candidates vying to become governor of the state had met in a head-to-head debate in 24 years -- which was the last time there was no incumbent running. In the political generation since then, incumbent governors have either shunned debates, or insisted that they include minor-party candidates as well.
 The two men plan to debate again on Oct. 12, in Buffalo.
 The meeting last night offered Mr. Faso, who has trailed Mr. Spitzer badly in opinion polls and fund-raising, the chance to raise his profile by standing beside Mr. Spitzer. He used the opportunity to try to hammer away at his opponent's ethics, noting that Mr. Spitzer was not forthcoming about a loan and contributions he took from his father, a real estate mogul, when he first ran for attorney general, and questioning Mr. Spitzer's decision to accept rides on the jet of a lobbyist who wants to open a casino in New York. 
 ''He's been cavorting, jetting around the country, in the plane of a registered lobbyist who wants to bring out-of-state Indian tribes into New York State to run a casino,'' Mr. Faso said. Then, referring to Mr. Spitzer's campaign slogan that everything will change on ''Day 1'' of a Spitzer administration, he said: ''He says Day 1 things change? I think on Day 1 under a Spitzer administration, it's more of the same.''
 Mr. Spitzer noted that he had reimbursed the lobbyist for the trip, and added that Mr. Faso had accepted plane rides from a state contractor in the past as well. He painted Mr. Faso as extreme, and said that in the Assembly Mr. Faso had voted against anti-stalking legislation, a bill aimed at ending pay disparities between men and women, and a bill to prohibit police officers from giving lie detector tests to rape victims. ''When the issues are most important, you march to a very bizarre drummer,'' he said. 
 The two men discussed many policy questions, but were not always terribly specific about their plans. 
 Both men expressed their support for the death penalty, which was declared unconstitutional by the state's highest court two years ago. But Mr. Spitzer suggested that he supports the death penalty only in more limited circumstances -- for instance, for terrorists or people who kill police officers -- and suggested that reinstating it would not be a top priority. Noting that he would try to drive crime down by focusing on guns and drugs, he said, ''There are many things we will do before we get to the death penalty.''
 Mr. Faso pledged to put state spending ''on a diet,'' and said that after years of spending increases he would not allow next year's budget to grow a nickel over this year's. He spoke of cutting a wide array of taxes, and capping local school property taxes. 
 Mr. Spitzer spoke of his own plan to cut local property taxes. At one point, after Mr. Faso repeated his charge that Mr. Spitzer would raise taxes, Mr. Spitzer said: ''You can repeat it as often as you want -- it's not true. There will be no tax increase in a Spitzer administration.'' Mr. Spitzer, who made a national reputation as attorney general taking on Wall Street, accused Mr. Faso of ''Enron accounting.''
 When it came to government reform, both men said that they favor term limits for statewide offices. Mr. Faso noted that he became the Republican nominee by beating the candidate supported by the state's Republican Party -- the former Massachusetts governor William F. Weld -- and said that he also favors term limits for the powerful leaders of the Legislature, who wield enormous power over rank and file lawmakers in Albany. 
 Then Mr. Spitzer was asked how he could pledge to shake up the status quo when his campaign is supported by so many power players, from lobbyists to unions.
 ''The status quo is not behind me,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''The status quo is in front of me, and I've got dead aim at it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Eliot Spitzer could be seen on a large-screen monitor during his debate against John Faso last night in the race for New York governor. (Photo by David Duprey/Associated Press)(pg. B6)
 (Photographs by David Duprey/Associated Press)(pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); ETHICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); LITIGATION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%) Debating; Election Issues; Education and Schools; Abortion; Marriages; Homosexuality; Ethics; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%) Michael Cooper; John J Faso; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



558 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Waging the War on Terror: Report Belies Optimistic View

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Three years ago, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld wrote a memo to his colleagues in the Pentagon posing a critical question in the ''long war'' against terrorism: Is Washington's strategy successfully killing or capturing terrorists faster than new enemies are being created?
 Until Tuesday, the government had not publicly issued an authoritative answer. But the newly declassified National Intelligence Estimate on terrorism does exactly that, and it concludes that the administration has failed the Rumsfeld test. 
Portions of the report appear to bolster Mr. Bush's argument that the only way to defeat the terrorists is to keep unrelenting military pressure on them. But nowhere in the assessment is any evidence to support Mr. Bush's confident-sounding assertion this month in Atlanta that ''America is winning the war on terror.'' 
 While the spread of self-described jihadists is hard to measure, the report says, the terrorists ''are increasing in both number and geographic dispersion.'' 
 It says that a continuation of that trend would lead ''to increasing attacks worldwide'' and that ''the underlying factors fueling the spread of the movement outweigh its vulnerabilities.''
 On Tuesday evening the White House issued what it called a fact sheet lining up the intelligence estimate's findings with President Bush's own words in recent months, comparing, for example, the report's account of the the spread of new terror cells independent of Al Qaeda to Mr. Bush's references to ''homegrown terrorists'' from Madrid to Britain.
 But there is a difference in tone between Mr. Bush's public statements and the classified assessment that is unmistakable. 
 The report says that over the next five years ''the confluence of shared purpose and dispersed actors will make it harder to find and undermine jihadist groups.''
 It also suggests that while democratization and ''exposing the religious and political straitjacket that is implied by the jihadists' propaganda'' might dim the appeal of the terrorist groups, those factors are now outweighed by the dangerous brew of fear of Western domination, the battle for Iraq's future and the slow pace of real economic or political progress. 
 Yet the intelligence report bears none of Mr. Bush's long-range optimism. Rather it dwells on Mr. Rumsfeld's darker question, which he put cheekily as, ''Is our current situation such that 'the harder we work, the behinder we get?' ''
 Tuesday's declassified report asked a more subtle version of that question. It notes that while democratization might ''begin to slow the spread'' of extremism, the ''destabilizing transitions'' caused by political change ''will create new opportunities for jihadists to exploit.''
 And while Mr. Bush talks often of transforming the Middle East, the report speaks of the ''vulnerabilities'' created by the fact that ''anti-U.S. and antiglobalization sentiment is on the rise and fueling other radical ideologies.'' 
 The result, it said, was that other groups around the world are radicalizing ''more quickly, more widely and more anonymously in the Internet age.'' 
 In short, it describes a jihadist movement that, for now, is simply outpacing Mr. Bush's counterattacks. 
 ''I guess the overall conclusion that you get from it is that we don't have enough bullets given all the enemies we are creating,'' said Bruce Hoffman, a professor of security studies at Georgetown University. 
 What was most remarkable about the intelligence estimate, several experts said, was the unremarkable nature of its conclusions.
 ''At one level it is unsurprising stuff,'' said Paul Pillar, who was the national intelligence officer for the Near East and South Asia on the intelligence council until last year. ''But there is definitely much there that you haven't heard the president say,'' he added, ''including the role that Iraq has played'' in inspiring disaffected Muslims to join an anti-American jihadist movement.
 Administration officials expressed their certainty on Tuesday that the leak of parts of the report was an example of politically inspired cherry picking, to use a term from earlier arguments over intelligence about unconventional weapons.
 ''Here we are, coming down the stretch in an election campaign, and it's on the front page of your newspapers,'' Mr. Bush said at a news conference with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan. ''Isn't that interesting? Somebody has taken it upon themselves to leak classified information for political purposes.''
 And at the center of the political debate is Iraq. Frances Fragos Townsend, the director of homeland security at the White House, used a conference call with reporters on Tuesday evening to call attention to the intelligence finding that ''the Iraq conflict has become a cause celebre for jihadists, breeding a deep resentment of U.S. involvement in the Muslim world, and cultivating supporters for the global jihadist movement.''
 ''Should jihadists leaving Iraq perceive themselves and be perceived to have failed,'' the findings went on, ''we judge fewer fighters will be inspired to carry on the fight.''
 Ms. Townsend argued that ''this really underscores the President's point about the importance of our winning in Iraq,'' she said.
 As a political matter, at least for the next few weeks, the intelligence findings will only fuel the argument over Iraq on both sides. Mr. Bush has grown increasingly insistent that nothing he has done in Iraq has worsened terrorism. America was not in Iraq during the first World Trade Center attack in 1993, he said, or during the bombings of the U.S.S. Cole or embassies in Africa, or on 9/11.
 But that argument steps around the implicit question raised by the intelligence finding: whether postponing the confrontation with Saddam Hussein and focusing instead on securing Afghanistan, or dealing with issues like Iran's nascent nuclear capability or the Middle East peace process, might have created a different playing field, one in which jihadists were deprived of daily images of carnage in Iraq to rally their sympathizers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (97%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TRENDS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); RELIGION (66%) Terrorism; Intelligence Services; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Islam; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



559 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: New Premier Seeks a Japan With Muscle And a Voice

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
In his first act after being installed as prime minister, Shinzo Abe, a popular nationalist who has vowed to make Japan more assertive globally, appointed a cabinet on Tuesday packed with social conservatives and foreign-policy hawks.
 Mr. Abe, 52, bowed deeply in front of lawmakers after winning 339 votes in the 476-member lower house, which selects the prime minister.
 Earlier in the day, Mr. Abe's predecessor and political mentor, Junichiro Koizumi, vacated the prime minister's residence in central Tokyo after nearly five and a half years. Mr. Abe had been virtually guaranteed to succeed Mr. Koizumi, 64, since winning last week's leadership election in the Liberal Democratic Party, which has governed Japan for most of the past half-century. 
 Mr. Abe is Japan's youngest prime minister since World War II and the first to be born after the war. His ascension appears to be a changing of the guard in a country that has kept a low profile in international affairs since its defeat in 1945. He enters office riding a crest of popularity, as his message of renewed national pride has found followers amid the resurgence of Japan's long dormant economy.
 ''Japan must be a country that shows leadership and that is respected and loved by the countries of the world,'' Mr. Abe said Tuesday in his first news conference as prime minister. ''I want to make Japan a country that shows its identity to the world.''
 At the same time, Mr. Abe (pronounced AH-bay) said he wanted to improve relations with South Korea and China, which soured after Mr. Koizumi paid visits to a Shinto shrine honoring Japan's war dead.
 Mr. Abe called on the leaders of South Korea and China to meet with him, something both countries refused to do with Mr. Koizumi. So far, Mr. Abe has been vague about whether he will visit the shrine.
 He told reporters that one goal of his administration was to revise Japan's pacifist Constitution, written after World War II by American occupation forces, to permit a full-fledged military. He also indicated that he favored closer military cooperation with Washington. These goals have alarmed many here who worry that any upgrading of the status of the armed forces could damage ties with Asian neighbors, which fear a revival of Japanese militarism. 
 After winning leadership of the governing party last week, Mr. Abe reportedly spent several days holed up in his country retreat near Mount Fuji, drawing up his cabinet. His choices, said Tomoaki Iwai, a professor of politics at Nihon University, and others, gave a decidedly hawkish bent to the new administration.
 Mr. Abe increased the number of advisers to the prime minister, adding new posts for national security, education and the issue of Japanese citizens kidnapped by North Korea. Many of his appointees are in their 50's, a decade younger than most cabinet ministers in the past.
 One of the most watched appointments was to the new job of national security adviser, which went to Yuriko Koike, 54, a former television reporter. Ms. Koike has been a vocal supporter of the economic sanctions on North Korea linked to its refusal to provide more information on the fate of Japanese citizens kidnapped two decades ago.
 Another was the education adviser, Eriko Yamatani, 56, a critic of sex education and the teaching of ''excessive'' equality of the sexes in schools. 
 The new state minister in charge of sex equality, Sanae Takaichi, 45, has opposed allowing women to have different legal family names from their husbands, a freedom women sued to win in the late 1980's. 
 The defense agency chief, Fumio Kyuma, a 65-year-old party veteran and a friend of Mr. Abe's, and the foreign minister, Taro Aso, 66, who ran against Mr. Abe in last week's leadership vote, retained their positions. 
 There are few political heavyweights in top economic posts, reflecting what some economists and political scientists said was a shift in priorities toward foreign policy and national security. Mr. Koizumi, in contrast, filled economic posts with prominent reformers like Heizo Takenaka, a former economics professor credited with fixing Japan's debt-ridden banking system.
 Mr. Abe said he wanted to continue Mr. Koizumi's market-oriented reforms but also pledged to fight the growing discrepancies in incomes and opportunities that they have helped create. Mr. Koizumi's critics blasted him for turning egalitarian Japan into an American-style society of winners and losers.
 But Mr. Abe seemed to speak most forcefully on security issues, and on the need for Japan to have a larger voice in global affairs. One of his goals, he said, will be getting Japan a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shinzo Abe, center, Japan's new prime minister, with members of the cabinet he selected yesterday in Tokyo. (Photo by Koichi Kamoshida/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (94%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); WORLD WAR II (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); RELIGION (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Cabinets and Sub-Cabinets; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Constitutions; Biographical Information

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (93%) Shinzo (Prime Min) Abe; Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi; Martin Fackler; Fumio (Min) Kyuma; Taro (Min) Aso

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Japan; China; South Korea; Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



560 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Fill 'Er Up With Dictators

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Are you having fun yet?
 What's a matter? No sense of humor? You didn't enjoy watching Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez addressing the U.N. General Assembly and saying of President Bush: ''The devil came here yesterday, right here. It smells of sulfur still today.'' Many U.N. delegates roared with laughter.
Oh well then, you must have enjoyed watching Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad breezing through New York City, lecturing everyone from the U.N. to the Council on Foreign Relations on the evils of American power and how the Holocaust was just a myth. 
 C'mon then, you had to at least have gotten a chuckle out of China's U.N. ambassador, Wang Guangya, trying to block a U.N. resolution calling for the deployment of peacekeeping troops to Sudan to halt the genocide in Darfur. I'm sure it had nothing to do with the fact that the China National Petroleum Corporation owns 40 percent of the Sudan consortium that pumps over 300,000 barrels of oil a day from Sudanese wells.
 No? You're not having fun? Well, you'd better start seeing the humor in all this, because what all these stories have in common is today's most infectious geopolitical disease: petro-authoritarianism.
 Yes, we thought that the fall of the Berlin Wall was going to unleash an unstoppable wave of free markets and free people, and it did for about a decade, when oil prices were low. But as oil has moved to $60 to $70 a barrel, it has fostered a counterwave -- a wave of authoritarian leaders who are not only able to ensconce themselves in power because of huge oil profits but also to use their oil wealth to poison the global system -- to get it to look the other way at genocide, or ignore an Iranian leader who says from one side of his mouth that the Holocaust is a myth and from the other that Iran would never dream of developing nuclear weapons, or to indulge a buffoon like Chavez, who uses Venezuela's oil riches to try to sway democratic elections in Latin America and promote an economic populism that will eventually lead his country into a ditch.
 For a lot of reasons -- some cyclical, some technical and some having to do with the emergence of alternative fuels and conservation -- the price of crude oil has fallen lately to around $60 a barrel. Yes, in the long run, we want the global price of oil to go down. But we don't want the price of gasoline to go down in America just when $3 a gallon has started to stimulate large investments in alternative energies. That is exactly what OPEC wants -- let the price fall for a while, kill the alternatives, and then bring it up again.
 For now, we still need to make sure, either with a gasoline tax or a tariff on imported oil, that we keep the price at the pump at $3 or more -- to stimulate various alternative energy programs, more conservation and a structural shift by car buyers and makers to more fuel-efficient vehicles.
 ''If Bush were the leader he claims to be, he would impose an import fee right now to keep gasoline prices high, and reduce the tax rate on Social Security for low-income workers, so they would get an offsetting increase in income,'' argued Philip Verleger Jr., the veteran energy economist.
 That is how we can permanently break our oil addiction, and OPEC, and free ourselves from having to listen to these petro-authoritarians, who are all so smug -- not because they are educating their people or building competitive modern economies, but because they happen to sit on oil.
 According to Bloomberg.com, in 2005 Iran earned $44.6 billion from crude oil exports, its main source of income. In the same year, the mullahs spent $25 billion on subsidies to buy off the population. Bring the price of oil down to $30 and guess what happens: All of Iran's income goes to subsidies. That would put a terrible strain on Ahmadinejad, who would have to reach out to the world for investment. Trust me, at $30 a barrel, the Holocaust isn't a myth anymore.
 But right now, Chavez, Ahmadinejad and all their petrolist pals think we are weak and will never bite the bullet. They have our number. They know that Mr. Bush is a phony -- that he always presents himself as this guy ready to make the ''tough'' calls, but in reality he has not asked his party, the Congress, the people, or U.S. industry to do one single hard thing to reduce our dependence on foreign oil.
 Mr. Bush prattles on about spreading democracy and freedom, but history will actually remember the Bush years as the moment when petro-authoritarianism -- not freedom and democracy -- spread like a wildfire and he did nothing serious to stop it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); HOLOCAUST (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); PEACEKEEPING (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Conservation of Resources; Energy and Power; Research; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States International Relations

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

INDUSTRY: NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (69%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (78%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) Thomas L Friedman; George W (Pres) Bush; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); SUDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%) Venezuela; Iran

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



561 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: World Automakers Gather in Paris, Looking for a Lift 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Too bad Bono and Angelina Jolie aren't here.
 If they were, this year's Paris Motor Show, which opens to the media on Thursday, would feel even more like the auto industry's equivalent of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
It's close, even without the celebrity firepower. Leaders of many of the biggest global car companies, including Rick Wagoner of General Motors, Katsuaki Watanabe of Toyota, Dieter Zetsche of DaimlerChrysler and Carlos Ghosn of Renault and Nissan, will be in Paris at a seminal moment for the automobile industry.
 It is a rare gathering of such high-ranking executives for the Paris show, which is traditionally seen as a second-tier show, compared to the industry's biggest events in Detroit, Tokyo and Frankfurt. 
 But as automakers pursue growth in new markets, Europe has become a more competitive market, with Toyota making swift inroads. On Tuesday, the French automaker Peugeot said it planned to cut 10,000 jobs and reduce spending on new products. Even Toyota has fresh worries, including new products from Chinese manufacturers that will be unveiled here. 
 The most pressing issue at the show, however, is whether General Motors, Renault and Nissan will form a global alliance. Mr. Wagoner and Carlos Ghosn, who began discussions at the prodding of G.M.'s biggest shareholder, Kirk Kerkorian, plan to meet here this week. 
 Based on some signals from the companies so far, the prospects of an alliance are looking dim, though both sides maintain an official position that they will continue to sort through details up to their self-imposed deadline of Oct. 15. 
 If they decide they cannot reach a deal, then the focus will shift quickly to which global auto company Mr. Ghosn will seek out next for a possible alliance. 
 Mr. Ghosn has made it clear over the last few months that he wants to add a third partner to his two-company alliance to better compete against Toyota, whose profits and market-share growth are surging.
 Given that his two companies are already big players in Asia and Europe, it is logical for him to want a partner in North America. If not G.M., then the only other candidate is Ford, which is reeling from a financial crisis in its North American operations. 
 But Detroit is not alone in its troubles. Indeed, this year's Paris auto show seems to be a race of the hobbled, not of the swift. Just about everyone is looking worriedly in the rearview mirror.
 The European market, like that in the United States, is going through its own soul-searching, as homegrown companies with rich histories, like Peugeot, Volkswagen and Fiat, are squeezed by foreign competitors. 
 Renault is under pressure, too. It became a European industry darling under Mr. Ghosn's leadership in the late 1990's, when he shut factories, revamped its product lineup and earned himself the nickname ''Le Cost Killer.''
 ''This is the worst moment for Renault,'' Patrick Pelata, its executive vice president of product development, said this week. Renault has a full pipeline of new products to introduce through 2009, but most of them will not be on sale for a year or more. And the company is in the midst of its second reorganization plan in the past decade. ''The company is shaken and there are no effects to show,'' Mr. Pelata added.
 Mr. Pelata said he is concerned about how Renault, Nissan and G.M. can fight off Toyota, which is getting stronger in both the United States and Europe.
 Toyota was a minor player at the beginning of the 1990's, but its market share has risen in Europe for nine consecutive years. Analysts expect Toyota's sales in Europe to top one million vehicles this year. Still, that is less than half of Toyota's annual sales in the United States. 
 But its climb continues. Last week, Toyota said it expected to sell 1.2 million vehicles in Europe in 2008, beating its goal for 2010 by two years.
 Skeptics who believed that prestige-loving Europeans would never accept Toyota's modest cars have been proved wrong.
 But Toyota is looking over its shoulder at a competitor that may soon arrive in Europe, as well as the United States: the Chinese.
 This year, Chinese companies will be showing their cars at the Paris Motor Show for the first time. Two companies, Landwind and Great Wall Motor, will represent the fast-growing industry.
 Their appearance comes as Mr. Zetsche is searching for a Chinese manufacturer to build subcompacts that would be sold by Chrysler in North America. The most likely candidate, according to news reports, may be Chery, the Chinese company that caused a stir when it displayed a subcompact at the Detroit Motor Show in January.
 Chery is not the only Asian manufacturer expected to make news in Paris. The Malaysian national automobile company, Proton, said it would begin talks with PSA Peugeot Citroen of France here in Paris this week. Proton is losing money while PSA Peugeot Citroen is struggling with its own troubles. 
 It announced earlier this month that its chief executive, Jean-Martin Folz, would step down at the end of the year, two to three years earlier than expected. The company, of which the Peugeot family still holds 44 percent of the voting stock, is now searching for his successor.
 Unlike Ford and Chrysler, which are re-examining every aspect of their operations to save money, PSA's problems go beyond just cutting costs, said Adam Jonas, who follows the European industry for Morgan Stanley.
 PSA already was one of the leanest European companies, on a par with Japanese and Korean automakers, before Tuesday's announcement of job cuts. It had been saving an average of $700 million a year through its cost-reduction plans. 
 The other big French automaker, Renault, faces a problem that American companies can understand. Rampant price cuts and other incentives have left European manufacturers with little if any profit margins on their cars. At the same time, they must develop innovative new vehicles.
 This show will also provide Europeans their first look at a fleet of new crossover vehicles -- small vans and sport utility vehicles built on the underpinnings of a car. 
 All three players in the proposed G.M.-Renault-Nissan alliance will be showing them, including the Opel CityVan and the Nissan Qashqai (pronounced KASH-kai), whose looks are meant to represent Nissan's new design direction for Europe.
 But embracing the new is as difficult for European manufacturers as it is for counterparts in the United States, said Mr. Pelata of Renault. Traditional companies face the same challenge that, both here and in Davos, could fill hours of discussion.
 ''These companies were created at the beginning of the last century,'' he said. ''They were demand-driven,'' meaning they filled orders placed by dealers, who then found ways to sell the cars, rather than being motivated to develop cars that fit the needs of their customers. 
 Now, whether the company is European, American or Asian, ''we must design for the customer,'' Mr. Pelata said.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about high-ranking auto executives at the Paris Motor Show misidentified the Chinese automaker that caused a stir when it displayed a subcompact at the Detroit auto show in January. The company is Geely, not Chery.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Paris Motor Show is expected to be the scene of high-level talks. (Photo by Alastair Miller/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
 Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive of Renault and Nissan, with the Nissan Qashqai, a new crossover vehicle aimed at the European market. (Photo by Benoit Tessier/Reuters)(pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (87%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); MARKET SHARE (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%) Automobiles; International Trade and World Market; Trade Shows and Fairs; Paris Car Show; Automobiles

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (58%) General Motors Corp; Toyota Motor Corp; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Renault Sa; Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); RNO (PAR) (85%); RNO (BIT) (85%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (89%); RICK WAGONER (76%); ANGELINA JOLIE (73%); DIETER ZETSCHE (71%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%) Rick Wagoner; Katsuaki Watanabe; Dieter Zetsche; Carlos Ghosn; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); FRANCE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



562 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

TRANS FATS BAN ADVANCES The New York City Board of Health voted to go ahead with plans to prohibit the city's 20,000 restaurants from serving food that contains more than a minute amount of artificial trans fats. [Page A1.] 


QWEST'S REBOUND Just a year ago, many on Wall Street thought Qwest Communications was so weak that it was bound to be broken up or sold. But Richard C. Notebaert, the chief executive, has cut costs, stabilized revenue and built up so much cash that Qwest is actually in a position to buy another industry player. [C1.]

HEALTH CARE'S COST A widely followed national survey reported that the cost of employee health care coverage rose 7.7 percent this year, more than double the overall inflation rate and well ahead of the increase in workers' incomes. [C1.]

AUTOMOTIVE LEADERS GATHER This year's Paris Motor Show feels like the auto industry's equivalent of the World Economic Forum in Davos. Leaders of many of the biggest global car companies will be in Paris at a seminal moment for the automobile industry. [C1.]

DELPHI BUYOUTS The auto parts maker Delphi said about 1,400 workers represented by the United Automobile Workers have accepted buyout packages worth as much as $140,000 and have agreed to leave their jobs by year's end. [C10.]

EX-ENRON EXECUTIVE SENTENCED Andrew S. Fastow, the former chief financial officer of Enron, was sentenced to six years in prison for his role in Enron's collapse in 2001. [C1.]

EBBERS BEGINS PRISON TERM Bernard J. Ebbers, former chief executive of WorldCom, arrived at a federal prison in Louisiana to begin serving a 25-year sentence for his role in the accounting fraud that toppled his company. [C4.]

ROMAN SPECTACLE The announcement of a plan to split Italy's largest phone company, Telecom Italia, into separate mobile and fixed-line units has led to a verbal slugfest between the prime minister, Romano Prodi, left, and the company's chairman, Marco Tronchetti Provera. Now Mr. Prodi's government itself seems to be wavering. [C3.]

STOCK RALLY CONTINUES Stocks extended their rally, lifting the Dow Jones industrial average to its second-highest close ever. The Dow climbed 93.58 points, or 0.81 percent, to 11,669.39. [C6.]

CONSUMERS' MOOD IMPROVES Falling gasoline prices helped ease American shoppers' worries in September, sending a gauge of consumer sentiment higher than analysts had expected. The Conference Board said its consumer confidence index rebounded to 104.5 from a revised reading of 100.2 in August. [C6.]

SUIT OVER GUIDANT DEAL Johnson & Johnson filed suit against Boston Scientific, Guidant and Abbott Laboratories for $5.5 billion in damages. The suit claims that the three companies illegally shared information on their way to scuttling Guidant's agreement to sell itself to Johnson & Johnson. [C3.]

INVESTOR RESUMES LEGAL FIGHT DaimlerChrysler and the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian resumed their legal battle, this time in an appeal by Mr. Kerkorian, who claimed he was shortchanged in the 1998 merger of Chrysler and Daimler-Benz. [C10.]

DATA MONITORING REPORT DELAYED A panel of European data security officials put off a final report on the legality of an American program to monitor millions of international banking transactions. But they said they had ''immediate concerns'' about the arrangement. [A20.]

SHARPER IMAGE CHIEF STEPS DOWN Sharper Image said that Richard Thalheimer, the company's founder, had stepped down as chairman and chief executive under pressure from a group of dissident shareholders disappointed with the company's recent performance. The company named one of the dissident investors, Jerry W. Levin, as chairman and interim chief executive. [C6.]

H.P. INVESTIGATION'S METHODS A document now under Congressional review provides one of the most vivid illustrations yet of how Hewlett-Packard investigators obtained phone records through a practice called pretexting. [C11.]

CONCERT VENTURE DROPPED AOL and a group of entertainment entrepreneurs who had created a venture to produce and distribute live concerts on the Internet and elsewhere have dissolved their partnership. The venture's co-founder and chief executive, Kevin Wall, announced he had struck a new deal with Microsoft. [C11.]

S.E.C. ACCUSES BUTLER The Securities and Exchange Commission accused a butler working for the media entrepreneur Robert F. X. Sillerman of illegally trading on confidential information from one of his boss's deals in 2004. [C3.]

EUROPEAN UTILITY MERGER Despite winning new support from European regulators, the German power company E.On was forced to raise its bid for the Spanish utility Endesa, a deal seen as a crucial test for breaking down barriers to cross-border energy mergers in Europe. [C3.]

BUILDER'S PROFIT FALLS The Lennar Corporation said that profit fell 39 percent in its fiscal third quarter, partly as a result of the cost of incentives to lure buyers as the housing market slows. [C6.]

MERCK WINS VIOXX CASE A federal jury in New Orleans ruled in favor of Merck in a lawsuit over the painkiller Vioxx, finding that there was not enough evidence to link the drug to a Kentucky man's heart attack. [C6.]

THE NEXT LEVEL Frito-Lay and Chevrolet, looking to capitalize on the buzz created by user-generated content, are holding ad-making contests tied to Super Bowl XLI. The National Football League is expected to announce rules for its own ad contest. Advertising. [C5.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Sharper Image shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); OILS & FATS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); PRISONS (86%); LITIGATION (86%); RESTAURANTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); DAMAGES (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); INFLATION (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (64%); ACCOUNTING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); CENTURYLINK INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (53%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (60%); CTL (NYSE) (58%); TIT (BIT) (53%); TI (NYSE) (53%); VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%); BSX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD C NOTEBAERT (57%); ROMANO PRODI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (57%); ITALY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2006



563 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

CUSTOMERS LEFT BEHIND Big phone and cable companies have been reluctant to upgrade and expand their networks in sparsely populated places where there are not enough customers to justify the investment. One company, Verizon, is looking to sell the 1.6 million local phone lines it controls in Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine. [Page A1.] 


AUTOMAKERS' TALKS Carlos Ghosn, below, who runs Renault and Nissan, said he would still be interested in adding a North American partner if discussions fail to bring about an alliance with General Motors, raising the prospect of eventual talks with Ford. [C1.]

FIGHTER ELUDES BUDGET-CUTTERS The F-22 Raptor fighter jet is an engineering marvel, a Maserati of the skies. But its biggest battles so far have been in Washington, where it has just taken on Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and Washington budget-cutters, and won. [C1.]

H.P.'S EX-CHAIRWOMAN TO TESTIFY In remarks prepared for delivery at a Congressional hearing, Hewlett-Packard's former chairwoman, Patricia C. Dunn, said she never had reason to believe that illegal methods were used in the leak investigation that led to her resignation. [C1.]

A WIND POWER LEADER Wind power is quickly emerging as a serious energy alternative not just in affluent areas of the world but also in fast-growing countries like India and China. Leading the charge in India and elsewhere is a homegrown Indian company, Suzlon Energy. [C1.]

NEWSROOM HERO In refusing to make a new round of cuts at The Los Angeles Times, Jeffrey M. Johnson, the publisher, has transformed himself in the eyes of Times employees. ''Jeff has really emerged as a hero to a lot of us in the newsroom,'' one reporter said. [C1.]

NEWS CORP. ADDS WEEKLIES The News Corporation, owner of The New York Post, has broadened its New York presence with the acquisition of two newspaper groups that have 28 weekly papers primarily serving Queens and Brooklyn. [C14.]

STOCKS ADVANCE Wall Street advanced for a third straight session, although the Dow Jones industrial average fell just short of touching its record high close. The Dow closed up 19.85 points, at 11,689.24. [C12.]

HOME SALES REPORT A report showing that sales of new homes rose last month for the first time since March was -- at first glance -- a welcome respite. But economists warned that underneath the headline numbers, signs of a weakening housing market were more prevalent than ever. [C3.]

MONEY LAUNDERING CASE In a settlement with the Manhattan district attorney's office, Bank of America acknowledged that lax operations allowed South American money launderers to illegally move $3 billion through a single Midtown Manhattan branch. [C3.]

COMVERSE CHIEF ARRESTED Jacob Alexander, former chief executive of Comverse Technology, has been arrested in Namibia. He faces conspiracy, securities fraud and money laundering charges in the United States. [C3.]

REINSURER'S EX-OFFICERS ACCUSED The Securities and Exchange Commission has accused three former executives of RenaissanceRe Holdings, a reinsurance company based in Bermuda, of practicing fraudulent accounting to improve earnings reports. [C7.]

VERIZON DISCLOSES NETWORK COST Verizon Communications, the nation's second-largest telecommunications company, said it would spend $23 billion on its fiber optic network by 2010, in a report that reassured analysts but appeared to unnerve investors. [C4.]

SPINACH RETURNS TO STORES Four East Coast grocery chains are restocking produce shelves with fresh spinach as federal officials continue to reassure consumers after the recent E. coli outbreak that spinach grown outside the Salinas Valley of California is safe. [A17.]

REVIVING A BRAND Bromo Seltzer's new owner is seeking to revive interest in the moribund brand with a campaign centered on a slightly rude memory aid, the ''Bromo burp.'' Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C12.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Verizon shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); POPULATION DENSITY (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (87%); REAL ESTATE (86%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); CONSPIRACY (71%); ARRESTS (70%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); NEW HOME SALES (65%); STOCK INDEXES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%); NEWS CORP (66%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (66%); NWS (ASX) (66%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (86%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (75%); NAMIBIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



564 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The Ascent Of Wind Power; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1661 words

HEADLINE: Indian Turbine Maker Becomes World Class as Rising Economies Discover New Source of Wealth 

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: KHORI, India 

 BODY:
Dilip Pantosh Patil uses an ox-drawn wooden plow to till the same land as his father, grandfather and great-grandfather. But now he has a new neighbor: a shiny white wind turbine taller than a 20-story building, generating electricity at the edge of his bean field.
 Wind power may still have an image as something of a plaything of environmentalists more concerned with clean energy than saving money. But it is quickly emerging as a serious alternative not just in affluent areas of the world but in fast-growing countries like India and China that are avidly seeking new energy sources. And leading the charge here in west-central India and elsewhere is an unlikely champion, Suzlon Energy, a homegrown Indian company.
Suzlon already dominates the Indian market and is now expanding rapidly abroad, having erected factories in locations as far away as Pipestone, Minn., and Tianjin, China. Four-fifths of the orders in Suzlon's packed book now come from outside India. 
 Not even on the list of the world's top 10 wind-turbine manufacturers as recently as 2002, Suzlon passed Siemens of Germany last year to become the fifth-largest producer by installed megawatts of capacity. It still trails the market leader, Vestas Wind Systems of Denmark, as well as General Electric, Enercon of Germany and Gamesa Tecnologica of Spain.
 Suzlon's past shows how a company can prosper by tackling the special needs of a developing country. Its present suggests a way of serving expanding energy needs without relying quite so much on coal, the fastest-growth fossil fuel now but also the most polluting.
 And Suzlon's future is likely to be a case study of how a manufacturer copes with China, both in capturing sales there and in confronting competition from Chinese companies.
 Suzlon is an outgrowth in many ways of India's dysfunctional power- distribution system. Electricity boards owned by state governments charge industrial users more than twice as much for each kilowatt-hour as such customers pay in the United States -- and they still suffer blackouts almost every day, especially in northern India.
 Subject to political pressures, the boards are often slow to collect payments from residential consumers and well-connected businesses, especially before elections. As a result, they often lack the money to invest in new equipment.
 To stay open and prevent crucial industrial or computer processes from stopping, a wide range of businesses -- including auto parts factories and outsourcing giants -- rely on still more costly diesel generators.
 With natural gas prices climbing as well, wind turbines have become attractive to Indian business. The Essar Group of Mumbai, a big industrial conglomerate active in shipping, steel and construction, is now working on plans for a wind farm near Chennai, formerly Madras, after concluding that regulatory changes in India have made it financially attractive.
 ''The mechanisms didn't used to be there; now they are,'' said Jose Numpeli, vice president for operations at Essar Power. The electricity boards ''know how to cost it, they know how to pay for it.''
 Roughly 70 percent of the demand for wind turbines in India comes from industrial users seeking alternatives to relying on the grid, said Tulsi R. Tanti, Suzlon's managing director. The rest of the purchases are made by a small group of wealthy families in India, for whom the tax breaks for wind turbines are attractive.
 Wind will remain competitive as long as the price of crude oil remains above $40 a barrel, Mr. Tanti estimated. To remain cost-effective below $40 a barrel, wind energy may require subsidies, or possibly carbon-based taxes on oil and other fossil fuels.
 Mr. Tanti and his three younger brothers were running a textile business in Gujarat, in northwestern India, when they purchased a German wind turbine -- only to find that they could not keep it running. So they decided to build and maintain turbines themselves, starting Suzlon in 1995 and later leaving the textile business.
 To minimize land costs, wind farms are typically in rural areas, chosen for the strength of the wind there as well as low prices for land. But that can mean culture shock.
 ''There were no big changes until the turbines came,'' Mr. Patil said, pausing from plowing here with his father in this remote, hilly, tribal area 200 miles northeast of Mumbai, where oxen remain at the center of farm life and motorized vehicles are uncommon.
 Doing business in rural areas of the developing world carries special challenges. The new Suzlon Energy wind farm in Khori is a subject of national pride. More than 300 giant wind turbines, with 110-foot blades, snatch electricity from the air. But it has also struggled with the sporadic lawlessness that bedevils India.
 S. Mohammed Farook, the installation's manager, was far from happy one recent afternoon. At least 63 new turbines, worth $1.3 million apiece and each capable of lighting several thousand homes when the wind blows, could not be put into service because thieves had stolen their copper power cables and aluminum service ladders for sale as scrap.
 The copper or aluminum fetches as little as $1 from black-market scrap dealers. But each repair costs thousands of dollars in parts and staff time, in a country that is desperately short of electricity and technicians.
 ''I am crying inside,'' Mr. Farook said.
 Despite such problems, Suzlon has expanded rapidly as global demand for wind energy has taken off. Its sales and earnings tripled in the quarter ended June 30, as the company earned the equivalent of $41.6 million on sales of $202.4 million.
 The demand for wind turbines has particularly accelerated in India, where installations rose nearly 48 percent last year, and in China, where they rose 65 percent, although from a lower base. Wind farms are starting to dot the coastline of east-central China and the southern tip of India, as well as scattered mesas and hills across central India and even Inner Mongolia.
 Coal is the main alternative in the two countries, and is causing acid rain and respiratory ailments while contributing to global warming. China accounted for 79 percent of the world's growth in coal consumption last year and India used 7 percent more, according to statistics from BP.
 Worried by its reliance on coal, China has imposed a requirement that power companies generate a fifth of their electricity from renewable sources by 2020. This target calls for expanding wind power almost as much as nuclear energy over the next 15 years. India already leads China in wind power and is quickly building more wind turbines.
 Chinese and Indian officials are optimistic about relying much more heavily on wind.
 ''I believe we may break through these targets -- if not, we should at least have no problem reaching them,'' said Zhang Yuan, vice general manager of the China Longyuan Electric Power Group, the renewable-energy arm of one of China's five state-owned electric utilities, China Guodian.
 Kamal Nath, India's minister of commerce and industry, was even more enthusiastic. ''India is ideally suited for wind energy,'' he said. ''The cost of it works well and we have the manufacturing capability.''
 International experts are more skeptical that wind will displace coal to a considerable extent, saying that while electricity production from wind is likely to increase rapidly, the sheer scale of energy demands suggests that coal burning will expand even more.
 Suzlon still sees plenty of opportunity in China and has decided to build some of its latest designs in China for the market there, despite the risk of having them copied by Chinese manufacturers.
 ''Being an Asian leader,'' Mr. Tanti said, ''we cannot afford to ignore China.''
 A dozen Chinese manufacturers have jumped into wind-turbine manufacturing as well. They have struggled with quality problems and have limited production capacity so far, resulting in long delivery delays.
 But the Chinese producers already have an edge on price over imported equipment, according to Meiya Power of Hong Kong, which owns and operates power plants in China and across Asia, and is considering a wind farm in windswept Inner Mongolia.
 Mr. Tanti said that rapid innovation and design changes would allow Suzlon to stay ahead of copycats. ''It's a time-consuming process,'' he said, estimating that it would take two to three years for rivals to clone Suzlon turbines because they use unique or proprietary parts.
 Suzlon manufactures its turbines at two factories in India, but has begun test production at a just-completed turbine-blade factory in Minnesota, where it already supplies turbines for a wind farm operated by the Edison Mission Group and Deere & Company. It has also begun test production at a Chinese factory that will make both turbines and blades.
 To reach the Suzlon wind farm here, the huge rotors travel by night on special trucks for a 300-mile journey from northwestern India on a succession of paved and dirt roads.
 Squatter huts have had to be removed along the way to allow the long trucks to turn; Suzlon is not required to pay compensation but often makes donations in these cases, Mr. Farook said.
 The truck crews also carry wooden poles to prop up electricity wires across the road and pass underneath. The trucks sometimes attract gawkers, and live wires occasionally burn bystanders.
 ''With human error, it may touch human flesh,'' Mr. Farook said. ''In that case, we have to pay compensation.''
 Villagers in Khori said that thievery and even robberies by rock-throwing gangs were nothing new, and were a problem long before Suzlon began setting up wind turbines. The company's response -- stepping up patrols by security guards -- has reduced everyday crime. That has made villagers more willing to rent land at the edge of their fields for the turbines.
 At first, ''we were really confused about what was going on,'' Mr. Patil said. ''But now we're O.K. on it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Patils, father and son, plow a field below Indian wind towers. (Photo by Scott Eells for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Wind-powered turbines set up by Suzlon Energy near Dhulia, India, are part of the technology increasingly reaching the country's rural regions. (Photo by Scott Eells for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND POWER PLANTS (92%); TURBINE MFG (91%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); OUTSOURCING (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (68%); CASE STUDIES (63%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (61%) 

COMPANY: ESSAR GLOBAL LTD (58%); VESTAS WIND SYSTEMS AS (58%); SIEMENS AG (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Suzlon Energy; Siemens Ag

TICKER: VWS (CPH) (58%); SIN (SWX) (55%); SIE (LSE) (55%); SIE (FRA) (55%); SIE (BIT) (55%); SI (NYSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS333611 TURBINE & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3511 STEAM, GAS, & HYDRAULIC TURBINES & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NORTH INDIA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%) INDIA (97%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); SPAIN (79%) China; India 00075000; Pipestone (Minn); Tianjin (China)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



565 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: In Rally's 3rd Day, Dow Edges Closer to Record

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street advanced yesterday for a third consecutive session, although the Dow Jones industrial average fell just short of touching its record high close after a jump in oil prices stifled investors' enthusiasm.
 Falling crude oil prices and an increase in new-home sales helped investors shrug off a weak durable goods report earlier in the session, putting the Dow just 2.21 points away from the closing record of 11,722.98 it set on Jan. 14, 2000.
The Dow closed up 19.85 points, or 0.17 percent, at 11,689.24. 
 Broader stock indicators also moved higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.25 points, or 0.02 percent, to 1,336.59, and the Nasdaq composite index advanced 2.05 points, or 0.09 percent, to 2,263.39.
 The Commerce Department said yesterday that orders to United States factories for large manufactured goods fell for a second month in August, the first time in more than two years there have been consecutive declines. Demand for durable goods dropped 0.5 percent last month, to $209.7 billion.
 Some good news came from a report that new-home sales rose 4.1 percent in August, their biggest increase in five months. The Commerce Department report raised hopes that a sharp decline in the housing industry could be easing.
 Light crude oil settled up $1.95, at $62.96 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Bonds fell, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rising to 4.60 percent, from 4.58 percent on Tuesday.
 Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company, said he did not see the overall rise in stocks as being short-lived, given that the three-week run-up had been based on a range of events, most notably the Federal Reserve's decision to again hold interest rates in place and a decline in the price of oil.
 ''The economy has been doing well and yet the market hadn't been in step with that because we had the specter of high interest rates and rising energy prices,'' Mr. Hogan said. ''As long as we can continue to see that economic data stream remain relatively positive, I think we can continue.'' 
 Investors have grown more confident in the strength of the economy after the Federal Reserve signaled that interest rates are in check for now and as oil prices have fallen more than 20 percent since July.
 Several Dow components reported good news yesterday. McDonald's rose to a six-year high, advancing 76 cents, to $39.82, after saying it would increase its dividend to $1, from 67 cents.
 Another Dow component, Merck, rose 64 cents, to $42.40 after scoring another victory in its legal battle over the painkiller Vioxx. A federal jury determined that there was not enough evidence to link Vioxx to a Kentucky man's heart attack in 2003. Though the decision was a victory for Merck, thousands of cases are still pending over the drug.
 The retailer Gap rose 57 cents, or 3 percent, to $19.07. Morgan Stanley upgraded the stock to overweight from underweight, saying that Gap's new clothes and marketing plans were gaining traction.
 Red Hat, the largest distributor of the open-source Linux operating system, fell $6.11, or 23.21 percent, to $20.21 after analyst downgrades that followed a disappointing second quarter.
 The markets often move higher near the end of a quarter as investors engage in a bit of window-dressing and bid up stocks in the hopes of burnishing their quarterly numbers. 
 Advancing issues outnumbered those declining by roughly two to one on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of two-year Treasury notes.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

High Price: 99.933
High Yield: 4.660
Low Yield: 4.595
Median Yield: 4.635
Accepted at low price: 30%
Total applied for: $59,799,735
Accepted: $24,499,355
Noncompetitive: $863,735
Interest set at: 4 5/8

The 2-year notes mature September 30, 2008.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); SALES FIGURES (79%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); BOND MARKETS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); JURY TRIALS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (66%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



566 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: The More We Make, the Better We Want 

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank, an economist at the Johnson School of Cornell University, is the co-author, with Ben S. Bernanke, of ''Principles of Economics.'' E-mail: rhf3@cornell.edu

 BODY:
Productivity growth has raised living standards in the United States more than 40-fold since 1790. In his 1930 essay, ''Economic Possibilities for Our Grandchildren,'' John Maynard Keynes speculated about how the continuation of such spectacular productivity growth might transform our lives. Like many other distinguished thinkers, both before him and after, he predicted that people would have great difficulty filling their days once it became unnecessary to spend more than a token amount of time working.
 This concern seems comical in retrospect. Productivity's upward trajectory has become even steeper in the decades since 1930, yet people are working just as hard as ever. 
How could Keynes, the most influential economist of the 20th century, have made such an absurd prediction? It would be one thing if he had merely overlooked the possibility of boundless human desire. Yet he explicitly considered this possibility, only to dismiss it. 
 Thus, he wrote that human needs fall into two classes: basic, or absolute, needs, which are independent of what others have, and relative needs, which we feel ''only if their satisfaction lifts us above, makes us feel superior to, our fellows.''
 Keynes granted that although needs rooted in a desire for superiority might indeed be insatiable, this was not true of absolute needs. And seeing absolute needs as more important by far, he concluded, ''A point may soon be reached, much sooner perhaps than we are all aware of, when these needs are satisfied in the sense that we prefer to devote our further energies to noneconomic purposes.''
 Keynes was surely correct that only a small fraction of total spending is prompted by the desire to flaunt one's superiority. He was profoundly mistaken, however, in seeing this desire as the only source of insatiable demands.
 Decisions to spend are also driven by perceptions of quality, the desire for which knows no bounds. But quality is an inherently relative concept. The same car that would have been deemed as having brisk acceleration and sure handling by drivers in Keynes's day, for example, would be much less charitably evaluated by today's drivers -- even those with no desire to outdo their neighbors. 
 An economist's formal mathematical model of the demand for automobile quality would incorporate an explicit comparison of a car's features with the corresponding features of other cars in the same local environment. Cars whose features scored positively in such comparisons would be seen as having high quality, for which consumers would be willing to pay a premium. In purely mathematical terms, such a model would be essentially identical to one based on a desire not to own quality for its own sake, but rather to outdo others. 
 Yet the subjective impressions conveyed by these two descriptions could hardly be more different. To demand quality for its own sake is to be a discerning buyer. But to flaunt one's superiority is to be a boor, a social moron. Such people exist, but that most of us manage to avoid them most of the time suggests that they are rare.
 Perceptions of quality influence the demand for virtually every good, including even basic goods like food. When a couple goes out for an anniversary dinner, for example, the thought of feeling superior to others probably never enters their minds. Their goal is just to share a memorable meal. But a memorable meal is a quintessentially relative concept. It is one that stands out from other meals. 
 The standards that define a memorable meal are thus elastic. When my wife and I were living in Paris a few years ago, we went out to dinner with well-to-do friends who were visiting from the United States. The restaurant we chose had a good reputation and, by our standards, was not cheap. But although my wife and I enjoyed our meals enormously, our friends found theirs disappointing. I'm confident they were not trying to impress us or make us feel inferior. By virtue of their substantially higher income, they had simply grown accustomed to a higher standard of cuisine.
 There are no obvious limits to the escalation of quality standards. For example, dinner for two at Sketch in London can easily top $500, even if you choose the least expensive offering on the wine list. No one had to spend that much to enjoy a memorable meal in Keynes's day. But if productivity keeps growing, it is just a matter of time before the price of a special meal becomes twice that amount. For as we approach the frontiers of existing quality standards, even minor improvements can be enormously expensive. 
 Until recently, for example, the Porsche 911 Turbo was considered perhaps the best all-around sports car on the market. Priced at over $120,000, it handles impeccably and has blistering acceleration.
 But in 2004, Porsche raised the bar by introducing its Carrera GT, which handles slightly better than the Turbo and beats its 0-to-60 time by two-tenths of a second. People who really care about cars find these small improvements genuinely exciting. To get them, however, they must pay almost four times the price of the Turbo. 
 By placing the desire to outdo others at the heart of his description of insatiable demands, Keynes relegated such demands to the periphery. But the desire for higher quality has no natural limits. Keynes and others were wrong to have imagined that a two-hour work week might someday enable us to buy everything we want. That hasn't happened and never will. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); MODELING & SIMULATION (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); MATHEMATICS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



567 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: In Life's Second Act, Some Take On A New Role: Entrepreneur

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
Call them silver entrepreneurs or senior entrepreneurs or third-age entrepreneurs. They are people who do not want -- or are not financially able -- to idle away their retirement years and, instead, opt to start a business.
 More people 55 and older seem to be rejecting the traditional model of puttering around the garden or the golf course. Many, however, have not simply hoped for a great second act, but have carefully planned their transition from lifelong careers, like Robert Mueller, a St. Louis machinist who bought a farm and turned it into a flourishing vineyard, or Marilyn Grazioli, who left nursing administration and is now running a busy suburban Detroit knitting store.
Others, like Malvin Krinn, a Washington ophthalmologist turned artisanal bread maker, benefited from a large dollop of serendipity to arrive at their second acts.
 The numbers of retired people rejecting the unfettered leisure that has been the American model since the 1940's in favor of starting up a small business are not exact. Federal government data suggests there are now at least three million entrepreneurs who are 55 and over -- up one-third from the number counted in 2000. 
 ''It's like this sea swell that has been under the radar,'' said Linda Wiener, the aging issues expert for Monster.com, the jobs search Web site. ''There are people who don't want to work an hourly job, and are wondering what are they going to do for the next 30 years?''
 A majority of 800 workers surveyed last year for the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers University indicated in their responses that traditional retirement was obsolete. Two-thirds expect to work after 55, and about 15 percent wanted to start their own business after they retired, the survey found. 
 Moving into a new career at a later age is not a snap. It often requires taking the financial risk of investing retirement savings in a new business with the hope of future profits. 
 ''The whole notion of reinvention can be a treacherous one,'' said Marc Freedman, author of ''Encore, How Baby Boomers Are Inventing the Next Stage of Work,'' due out in May 2007.
 ''It can set people up for the notion that this is an easy or even magical transformation,'' Mr. Freedman said. ''But it can be difficult to get financing so people are forced to put up their assets. Health care coverage is uncertain and starting new can also mean working 60 to 80 hours a week again. It's a whole new set of trade-offs that have to be navigated.'' 
 Ms. Grazioli, 59, plotted her transition carefully. When she resigned as nursing administrator at the Henry Ford Kingswood Hospital in Ferndale, Mich., in February 2005, she took the hospital system's career transition training, including two workshops on entrepreneurship.
 ''I had been knitting since I was 9, and I always had a dream to work with fibers,'' she said. Just then, a knitting store that she and her daughter, Amy Goller, 36, frequented in Royal Oak, Mich., went up for sale. They met with a financial adviser to devise a plan, but decided the purchase price was too high. 
 But her appetite was whetted. ''I could have gone back to the field where I felt comfortable, but I believe you need to take a risk,'' Ms. Grazioli said.
 Then, that June, they made a second, successful attempt to buy the store, called Ewe-Nique Knits. Ms. Grazioli borrowed heavily from herself. She took out a $40,000 home equity loan, which she said was a ''significant chunk'' of the cost to buy the store, and to cover some expenses since she no longer had a salary. She rolled over her 401(k) and retirement funds into an I.R.A., and in June 2005, took an early distribution of $35,740. She invested $25,000 of that to build up the store's inventory. 
 This past May, she took another early distribution, plowing $21,000 into the store after paying a $9,000 early withdrawal penalty. Her contributions have been about two-thirds of the cost of buying and running the store so far, she said. (Her daughter is contributing the remaining one-third and is a co-owner.) Ms. Grazioli hopes the May withdrawal will be the last foray into her retirement nest egg, noting that her business plan calls for reaching profitability by June 2008.
 ''This was a tremendous lifestyle change,'' said Ms. Grazioli, who said her husband, Joseph, 59, whose job at AAA of Michigan provides their health insurance (at a cost of $3,400 more for her annually), often helps at the cash register while she focuses on areas like adding classes to attract new knitters and spinners.
 The entrepreneurial road has been much longer for Robert Mueller, 70. In 1987, about eight years before he retired, he and his wife, Lois, 73, bought an 85-acre farm 60 miles west of St. Louis in Missouri's wine country.
 They began planting vines that year and gradually built the Robller (Rob plus the ''ller'' from Mueller) Vineyard, opening to the public in 1991.
 In addition to doing the manual labor -- the upkeep, planting and building -- along with friends and family, Mr. Mueller kept working at his last job, commuting two hours daily to St. Louis, and using his salary to keep the enterprise afloat.
 ''It's been a load of work,'' he conceded. ''But it's a different lifestyle; we have a lot of acres and a house with a stone fireplace that was built in 1821, the year Missouri became a state.''
 A lot of scrimping helped to pay off their initial $100,000 loan. They did not raid retirement savings but Mr. Mueller continually economizes; recently, he bought a used grape harvester instead of a new one, relying on his mechanical skills to keep it running.
 The Muellers have broken even in each of the last three years, with wine production reaching 5,000 gallons yearly -- 10 times what it was in 1990. 
 Martha Rosenberg, 56, took a shorter, but still targeted approach, to starting a new business. With her children almost done with college, she wanted to leave her job as executive director of the Nashville nonprofit organization, Our Kids, which aids sexually abused children.
 Ms. Rosenberg, who has an M.B.A., set out three criteria for a new career: a helping profession, one that could be pursued from home and a venture that would not require significant money to start.
 Although there are books that help, like ''Don't Retire, Rewire!'' (Alpha/Penguin Putnam, 2002), Ms. Rosenberg spent last fall researching on the Internet, and discovered Smooth Transitions, a service that aids the elderly and others to downsize and move to smaller households. 
 ''I'm very task oriented,'' she said. ''Plus, I have no personal attachment to stuff -- so it's perfect for me.''
 The $4,000 to buy the license to run the service, plus other fees, brought her initial investment to $6,000. She already has clients, so she expects a fairly seamless transition.
 Even so, like Mr. Mueller who worked two jobs in the transition, she put in long hours at her old job last spring while she was training to learn the new one.
 And she had prepared for a period without a salary -- ''I've been watching my pennies'' for the last year -- and noted her house is almost paid off and her husband, William, 57, still works, as a lawyer, and provides health insurance.
 Malvin Krinn, on the other hand, did not seek out a second career, but one came anyway and he is delighted with his makeover. After three decades as an ophthalmologist -- and a dedicated bread maker pursuing the ''perfect baguette'' at his home in Bethesda, Md. -- Mr. Krinn, 66, knew he wanted to keep working in his postretirement years.
 As he was winding down his practice in 2002, his son, Jonathan, a professional chef, opened 2941 Restaurant in Falls Church, Va., and Mr. Krinn suddenly had what he describes as ''an opportunity to have a second life.''
 He owns part of the restaurant -- he declined to say how much -- and arrives every morning to produce croissants, pastries and more than 100 loaves of specialty breads. 
 With a comfortable retirement income from his first career, he blends two retirement worlds: after finishing up the baking, which he starts at 5 a.m., he is free by the afternoon and out on the golf course.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I always had a dream to work with fibers,'' said Marilyn Grazioli, 59. After resigning from her job as a nursing supervisor last year she purchased a knitting store in suburban Detroit. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE (75%); NURSES & NURSING (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); HOSPITALS (63%) Small Business; Retirement; Entrepreneurship; Age, Chronological

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (54%)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (54%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Olson

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



568 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Report Shows Home Sales Rising, but Skeptics Abound

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
A report yesterday showing that sales of new homes rose for the first time since March was -- at first glance -- welcome news for homebuilders.
 But economists warned that underneath the headline numbers, signs of a weakening housing market were more prevalent than ever.
The Commerce Department reported yesterday that new-home sales in August rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.05 million, 4.1 percent higher than in July. 
 That helped push down the inventory of unsold new homes 5.7 percent, to a 6.6-month supply, meaning that at the current selling rate, it would take 6.6 months to sell all the new homes currently on the market.
 But sales figures for July were revised to show that fewer homes were sold than the government first reported. As a result, the August sales data probably exaggerates the resiliency of the market.
 Stuart Hoffman, chief economist with PNC Financial, called the August increase a ''dead-cat bounce.''
 The August numbers could also be inflated. Because new-home sales are recorded when the contract is signed, not when the deal is closed, the data does not factor in cancellations. Builders have said recently that cancellation rates are running as high as 30 percent, suggesting that the Commerce Department's numbers make the housing market appear healthier than it actually is.
 Yesterday's report showed that builders are indeed having more and more difficulty selling homes. The median price of a new home fell to $237,000, down 1.3 percent from August 2005. 
 Prices for previously owned homes are also falling. This week, the National Association of Realtors reported that for the first time in 11 years, the median price of a previously owned home fell from the price a year earlier. 
 In August, prices slipped to $225,000, down 1.7 percent compared with August 2005. Sales of previously owned homes, which make up about 85 percent of all home sales annually, fell for the fifth consecutive month.
 Few experts express confidence that these trends will reverse anytime soon.
 ''It certainly is possible that for a variety of reasons you could have a one-month upturn, but I doubt that will reverse the trend that seems to be occurring,'' said Kenneth Simonson, chief economist for the Associated General Contractors of America.
 Mr. Simonson noted the possibility that the August sales numbers could be revised downward, just as the July numbers were. ''I think we could still wind up seeing that this month is a continuation of the downturn.'' 
 Although it is unwelcome news for anyone trying to sell a home, the slowdown in the housing market is just what policy makers at the Federal Reserve have been looking for.
 As inflation quickened over the last several months, members of the Fed, led by the chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, have said that a slowing economy, led by cooling in the housing market, would be essential to holding prices down. So far, the Fed's economic forecast has been realized, with inflation slowing and home sales and prices falling. 
 There was further evidence yesterday that the economy was slowing, as the Commerce Department reported an unexpected drop in orders for durable goods, a wide-ranging category that includes household appliances and factory machinery. The orders, a closely watched barometer of business investment, fell for the second consecutive month, dropping 0.5 percent, to $209.7 billion. It was first back-to-back decrease in more than two years.
 Economists disagree on whether the decline in August suggests a looming slowdown in business investment. 
 ''Today's report points to a slowing in the manufacturing sector,'' wrote Peter E. Kretzmer, senior economist with Bank of America. ''Capital spending momentum remains solid but nonexceptional.''
 Still, others said the disappointing numbers were a result of the pessimistic business climate in the second half of the summer, fed by high energy prices and worries over inflation.
 ''There has been a significant improvement in the overall investment climate in the past several weeks,'' wrote Brian Bethune, an economist with Global Insight. ''Steep declines in gasoline and diesel fuel prices should relieve recent downward pressure on margins, and provide a second wind to the profitability cycle. This should provide a lift to business confidence.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Homebuilders work in North Andover, Mass. The government reported yesterday that sales of new homes rose for the first time since March. But sales figures for July were revised downward. (Photo by Elise Amendola/Associated Press)Chart: ''New-Home Sales''Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.Aug.: +41.%July: -7.5June: -0.9Graph tracks annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted, since 2005.(Source by Commerce Department)Chart: ''Prices of New Homes''Median price for new homes.Aug.: +0.3%July: -2.2June: +1.4Graph tracks median price for new homes since 2005.(Source by Commerce Department)Chart: ''Durable Goods Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted.Aug.: -0.5%July: -2.7June: +3.3Graph tracks manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted, since 2005.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (93%); SALES FIGURES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); STATISTICS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%) Economics; Productivity; Consumer Behavior; Housing; Sales; United States Economy; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) Commerce Department

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%) John Maynard (1883-1946) Keynes; Robert H Frank; Jeremy Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



569 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Jobless Rate Dips

 BODY:
Unemployment among Hispanics reached a record low of 5.2 percent in the second quarter of this year, while the difference in unemployment rates between Hispanic and non-Hispanic workers, at 0.6 percent, was also a record low, according to a survey released yesterday by the Pew Hispanic Center. 
 The study found that Hispanic workers -- mainly legal and illegal immigrants -- accounted for about 40 percent of all the workers who joined the United States labor force in the last year, more than any other group. Much of the job growth for Hispanics came in the construction industry in the South and the Western states. While wages rose faster for Hispanics over the last year than for other workers, they continued to have the lowest median wage of any group.
The findings are based on an annual analysis by the Pew center, a nonpartisan research organization in Washington, of data from the Census and the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which first began collecting data on Hispanics in 1973. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); STATISTICS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (67%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (55%) Labor; Unemployment; Records and Achievements; Hispanic-Americans

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%) Pew Hispanic Center

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



570 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Memo to Nanny: No Juice Boxes

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR

 BODY:
IN posting after posting on the new Web site ISawYourNanny.blogspot.com, anonymous whistle-blowers describe alarming baby-sitting behavior they witness at playgrounds or supermarkets: the nanny in the Seattle suburbs who may be drinking on the job; the sitter in Greenwich, Conn., preparing for a date with the children's father; the one near Atlanta pouring Dr Pepper into the sippy cup of her young charge.
 Alcohol abuse. Adultery. Carbonated beverages?
One of these things is not like the others. But in an age of organic everything, rampant childhood obesity and widespread food allergies -- not to mention poisonous spinach -- the feeding and misfeeding of children has become a tense, awkward point of debate between parents and baby sitters. 
 Just a few years ago, giving lunch to a 1-year-old was a simple matter of popping open a jar of the Gerber mush du jour. But many parents now feed their children with the precision of chemists and the passion of Alice Waters, and expect sitters to do the same. Fruit juice, once a childhood mainstay, is now considered a sweet slosh of empty calories, and soft drinks are a potential firing offense. 
 ''Twenty years ago you would feed kids anything,'' said Marci Thomas, who has been baby-sitting for New York children for that long. ''Just feed the child hamburgers, and that was great back then. Now it's so precise. Don't give them that at lunch, make sure she eats that at dinner.'' 
 The issue is a trying one even for those gifted in the delicate art of parent-nanny diplomacy. The conflicts are partly a result of the educational and economic divide that leaves many nannies less knowledgeable (or neurotic, take your pick) about nutrition than their employers. But it is also partly a struggle over the emotional issues involved in leaving a child in another person's care. 
 The result is a state of affairs in which nannies innocently serve children Yoo-hoo, believing that it is simply chocolate milk, or defy parents by sneaking their charges forbidden candy bars or simply notice that a child's dinner costs more than their hourly rate. 
 Many parents, meanwhile, now ask sitters to document their children's every bite in feeding logs, and fumble over how to tell an otherwise beloved nanny that the pizza bagels and chicken nuggets she has been serving to several generations of children -- including her own -- are unacceptable. 
 ''It's not unusual for parents to make a huge list of what is and isn't allowed,'' said Genevieve Thiers, who is the founder and chief executive of Sittercity.com, which matches more than 150,000 baby sitters with parents. Her site receives so many queries about food, she said, that she is preparing to post an online worksheet on which parents can specify diet preferences. 
 ''I've seen parents list calorie counts, lists of ingredients in foods that kids are and aren't allowed to have,'' she said. ''They'll name an enzyme or a sugar.''
 Nannies, meanwhile, find it demeaning ''when parents are overly scrupulous,'' said Julia Wrigley, a professor of sociology at the City University of New York Graduate Center, because they are implying that the sitters do not know or care enough to feed children properly. ''The deeper emotional issue is how much judgment and authority the caregiver can exercise,'' she said.
 Sitters can hear a parent's dietary requests as criticism of her education level, cultural traditions and personal eating habits, and as harbingers of extra work.
 ''You have to prepare the meal from scratch,'' said one older nanny who complained bitterly as she pushed a little boy on a swing set in Prospect Park in Brooklyn, and then asked not to be identified for fear of losing her job. ''It's organic organic all the way, but even the YoBaby yogurt has too much sugar,'' she said, referring to Stonyfield Farm's organic line for babies. ''You have to get special organic produce and then prepare each meal.'' Nannies, she said, must now be personal chefs while also supervising mischievous toddlers, and all without an increase in pay.
 Strict parental guidelines may leave a nanny in a difficult position: If a 3-year-old refuses any lunch other than pizza, is the sitter supposed to let the child go hungry? And what's a nanny to do when even the parents have a hard time getting a child to eat his peas?
 Most of the sitters interviewed for this article said they are happy to try to feed children whatever their employers specify. In contrast, parents expressed a great deal of anxiety, saying they feel guilty criticizing their nannies and even guiltier about leaving their child at home eating potato chips.
 Melani Cammett is a mother of two, an assistant professor of political science at Brown, and an accomplished Happy Meal thief. Her sitter, Lena Barros Mackie, has friends and relatives who work at fast-food chains and gave her children's meals to take to work, much to the delight of Ms. Cammett's children. So Ms. Cammett snatched the boxes, ''stealing the candy and editing the contents,'' she said, before returning the meals to the unsuspecting children.
 Then she would feel awful. Ms. Mackie ''is a generous and warm person, and I didn't want to insult her,'' Ms. Cammett said. ''I feel uncomfortable about the whole thing of having a nanny and housekeeper as it is, so I was very uncomfortable about the class issues wrapped up around nutrition education. Not everyone can afford to buy organic stuff, especially the meats and the milks.'' 
 When Ms. Cammett put Ms. Mackie on a full-time schedule, she sat her down for a gentle talk, and the fast-food surprises ended. 
 To up the emotional ante, the current nutritional wisdom says that what children eat may set their tastes in place permanently. In this view, a hot dog is never just a single tube of meat, because it will lead to thousands of salty, processed, who-knows-what-filled lunches to come.
 Jennifer Tabet Shea, a mother on Cape Cod who once found a baby sitter giving French fries to her son, then 8 months old, said, ''Since he is only a toddler, and we are 100 percent responsible for his food choices, why on earth would we choose food that is terrible for him and will set him up for a preference for ultrasweet, ultrafatty tastes for life?'' 
 Ms. Shea now chooses her baby sitters in part based on their adherence to her rules, which include no high fructose corn syrup or hydrogenated oils, and limited refined sugars. This sort of approach is a radical break with a longstanding rule of childhood, namely that sweets are the payment a child receives to compensate for the absence of mom and dad. 
 Many baby sitters simply assume that rule is still in place. Janet Dracksdorf, an educational publisher in Boston, said that a sitter she employed had been taking her daughter -- a toddler at the time -- on regular candy runs. Ms. Dracksdorf did not learn about them until ''two years later, when my daughter was articulate enough to talk about it,'' she said. 
 ''Maybe I should have suspected something when the baby sitter gave my daughter the Candy Land game for a third-birthday present,'' Ms. Dracksdorf said. Her current nanny has a degree in nutrition.
 What bothered Ms. Dracksdorf more than the sugar and fat was the revelation that her trusted sitter saw nothing wrong with feeding a 2-year-old chocolate and never thought to clear it with her. It was a glimpse into the secret world of what nannies and children do while parents are away, and it underscored the fact that Ms. Dracksdorf works rather than staying home with her child. 
 ''You don't want the child to eat differently because you're gone,'' said Rima D. Apple, a professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and the author of ''Perfect Motherhood: Science and Childrearing in America'' (Rutgers University Press, 2006). 
 Sometimes that is true even for parents who stock their pantry with Count Chocula and Pop-Tarts. 
 Samantha Treworgy, a nanny in Chicago, just started a job with children who ''are allowed to eat chocolate and ice cream for snack, hot dogs for dinner, and then double dessert if they want.'' They told their parents that Ms. Treworgy was ''starving them'' when she put away the ice cream. 
 ''It's been really awkward,'' she said. ''I feel like the bad guy.'' She buys fruit and vegetables for the house, sometimes at her own expense. 
 Nicole Perez recently baby-sat for a 4-year-old boy in Boca Raton, Fla., who requested waffles and Oreos for dinner. ''Obviously, I did not oblige his requests, despite his tantrums,'' she said, explaining that she considered providing a healthy dinner part of her job.
 The result? ''I was asked not to come back,'' Ms. Perez said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: FAMILY FARE -- Above, Melani Cammett, left, with her children, Alex and Lena Manioudakis, and their sitter, Lena Barros Mackie, in Boston, and the foods in the Cape Verde cuisine Ms. Mackie prepares. She used to bring in fast food. (Photographs by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. G2)Drawing (Drawing by Jason Schneider)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHISTLEBLOWERS (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); WEB SITES (78%); WORKPLACE SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); ORGANIC FOODS (75%); NUTRITION (75%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (73%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); OBESITY (70%); FOOD ALLERGIES (70%); FAST FOOD (70%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (56%); ALLERGIES (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Food; Nannies; Diet and Nutrition; Children and Youth; Fast Food Industry; Snack Foods; Organic Foods and Products

PERSON: Jodi Kantor

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



571 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: On Campus, Finding Face Time in a Virtual Age

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

DATELINE: Austin, Tex. 

 BODY:
WILL STOVALL, a history student in his fifth and final year as an undergraduate at the University of Texas, returned from studying in Mexico last fall determined to go to law school. In service of this goal, he resolved to work harder, which meant he would have little chance to see old friends or to acquire new ones, and that, in turn, seemed to require a very particular kind of domestic arrangement. 
 ''My thinking was that I wouldn't have time to make a social life, so I needed to have people around,'' said Mr. Stovall, who looks as if he has spent much of his life on the verge of hoisting a spinnaker. Instead of renting an apartment, the custom for most seniors, he moved into French House, one of 15 cooperative living facilities run by students on the university's campus. ''People shudder when I say this,'' he said, ''but a co-op is very much like a frat, without all the fratty people.'' 
After a fallow period in the 1980's and much of the 90's, residential co-ops, where students cook and clean for themselves, have undergone a renaissance at the University of Texas and on other campuses across the country. About 10,000 students are living in co-ops in the United States and Canada, said Jim Jones, former executive director of the North American Students of Cooperation and a historian of trends in communal living. That figure is roughly as high as it was during the two liveliest periods of the co-op movement: the late 1940's, when cooperative housing emerged as a cost-efficient alternative to dormitory living for returning G.I.'s, and the late 1960's, when the culture of shared ownership embodied the era's anti-authoritarian sensibilities. 
 The current interest in co-ops stems in part from the economic imperative that rising housing costs have wrought. But more than anything else, students suggest, it has grown up in reaction to the alienating aspects of modern campus life, where the increased presence of technology, while enabling certain kinds of connection, has had a hand in limiting others.
 In Austin, the sense of social dispersion is especially acute. Fifty thousand students attend the University of Texas, though it has room for fewer than a fifth of them. This means that students seeking rental apartments in the city's booming real estate market, where a 1,000-square-foot apartment near campus may command $2,000 a month, are often forced to live 20 or 30 miles away, divorced from any semblance of collective life. And dormitories at the university, chief among them Dobie, a glass tower that reaches up into the city skyline like the headquarters of a global bank, are typically likened by students to nursing homes or prisons.
 Close to 650 students now live in co-ops at the university, which has one of the oldest and biggest systems in the United States, and the operation is undergoing an expansion. College Houses, one of the two nonprofit bodies that own and oversee co-ops in the area, is developing a $7.8 million building that will accommodate an additional 100 students. The project is set to receive financial assistance from the city of Austin, which, in an unusual move, has made funds available to promote student co-ops as part of a larger affordable-housing initiative. 
 ''I think that I felt lost at U.T.,'' said Mr. Stovall, who first lived in a co-op in his sophomore year. ''I remember at one point returning to my dorm -- which is so big that it's rumored to have its own area and ZIP codes -- and thinking that surely college would get better than this.'' 
 College co-ops, Texas' among them, began to spring up during the Depression as a means of providing students with low-cost housing. They have typically remained cheaper than dorms, but in recent years, Mr. Jones said, he has seen students choose co-op life even on campuses where the opposite is true.
 ''It's not just that people are arriving on big, anonymous campuses, but the homes these kids are coming out of are more isolated,'' Mr. Jones said. ''One of the problems in American society today is that people don't eat together anymore. It's the whole bowling alone thing, and co-ops are one of the few places where people can really come together.''
 The simple matter of a shared meal -- making it, clearing up -- undoubtedly draws students to co-op life, many of whom, particularly at large universities like Texas, envision the alternative as a sandwich eaten alone in a sterile apartment. Even at the university's larger co-ops, which can accommodate more than 100 students, members eat together every night, the rotating kitchen workers among them spending up to four hours preparing dinner.
 At Texas, no matter the size of a co-op, students must contribute four to six hours of cooking, housework or building maintenance a week. Assignments are made at the beginning of each semester when students voice their preferences to a household ''labor czar'' who works out an elaborate schedule and is responsible for coming down on lax members and implementing a fine of $10 to $15 for every hour of work missed. Students can pay a housemate $10 to do their work for them, but few do because such behavior is considered distasteful and ''noncooperative.''
 For anyone with a certain idea about the free-ranging spirit of American college life, the taste for bureaucracy and logistics among co-op members can seem staggering. ''One of the things that amazed me when I came here,'' said Alan Robinson, the general coordinator of College Houses, ''was that so many students wanted to impose rules on themselves.''
 In addition to a labor czar, each house has various managers and officers, committee and subcommittee delegates, as well as a representative who serves on the board of either College Houses or the Inter-Cooperative Council, the other umbrella organization through which the co-ops here function. In most houses, regular meetings are held to discuss paint colors, parking, guest policy, labor infractions and ways to market co-op life.
 ''It's work, it's a lot,'' acknowledged Ana Wolfowicz, a senior living in Pearl Street, a 120-member co-op with its own pool. ''But there's not an R.A. telling me when to turn the lights out, and we decide if we're going to buy a TV or organic coffee. No one is doing that for us.''
 Members can also decide whether the ornery or impertinent among them should be submitted for review. The choice of one condiment brand or another can prompt impassioned debate. Recently, at Pearl Street, there was much discussion over how to handle students who might use drugs. A few weeks ago one member called the police to report the smell of marijuana in a nearby room.
 Such an act would have seemed unimaginable 30 years ago on the premises of Pearl Street, easily the most storied building on campus. Originally constructed as a women's dormitory in 1961, the house, called Mayfair House then, was home to Farrah Fawcett in her undergraduate years. Later it was reinvented as a co-op known as the Ark, where in the late 60's and the 70's beer replaced soda in the vending machines. By the 80's drug habits were so pervasive in the Ark that it was shut down in 1988 because of ''anarchy and building destruction,'' as the brochure for College Houses puts it.
 French House, the co-op where Mr. Stovall lives, is in many ways emblematic of a new ethos in student communal living, one in which social hedonism, commitment to a vegetarian diet and a monolithic political view no longer hold as the predominant conventions. French House is also known as the carnivore's house; meat is served every evening. Ten of its 20 residents attend the Hill CountryBible Church nearby every Sunday. Dating within the house is discouraged. ''The stereotype is that we are hippies and drug addicts,'' said Patrick King, an art student and one of Mr. Stovall's housemates. ''We are neither hippies nor drug addicts.''
 The new co-op that College Houses is about to build will rise seven stories, with every two floors functioning as a co-op with its own kitchen and the ground floor for mingling. Phillip Reed, a local architect, found inspiration for the building in a giant jungle gym he saw at the Burning Man festival, but the specifics are being dictated by his client: a board of students who have asked for ample outdoor space, common areas and courtyards where they can show movies and watch bands. The building has been designed so that moving through it will enhance sociability, because sociability is the students' primary concern.
 ''Students now come to college with a whole set of different expectations,'' Mr. Reed said. ''They want a double bed, their own bedroom, a walk-in closet'' -- some of these amenities are available in co-ops, some not -- ''but what they don't want is forced isolation.''
 Nor, it seems, do they have much interest in the cool palette of modern interior design and the lack of intimacy it implies. One way that co-op members in Austin in 2006 seem similar to their counterparts 30 years ago is their choice of appointment. Batik thrives, so too Che posters, acid wall colors and sofas seemingly rescued from meth labs. To visit the bedrooms in many houses is to think one has stepped into a Tunisian massage parlor. 
 The co-op by way of Elle Decor apparently has yet to come; on the other hand, graduation is a gateway to a lifetime of beige.


GRAPHIC: Photos: POST-BIRKENSTOCK -- Co-ops at the University of Texas in Austin have shed their hippie reputation. Students at Pearl Street socialize poolside, above left. Top right and center, French House
above right, Eden House. (Photographs by Wyatt McSpadden for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
CONNECTING -- Will Stovall, far left, a member of French House, said he felt lost at the sprawling, 50,000-student University of Texas in Austin before he moved into a co-op. Members of the university's co-ops are required to contribute four to six hours of cooking, housework or building maintenance every week. Top left, students preparing dinner at Arrakis House
left, meal time at Pearl Street
above, Eden House roommates.
 MAKING ROOM -- A planned co-op building at the University of Texas in Austin will house some of the 650 students in cooperative housing there, as well as 100 more. (Photographs by Wyatt McSpadden for The New York Times)(pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); NURSING HOMES (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Colleges and Universities; Dormitories; Housing; Cooperatives

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (94%); NORTH AMERICAN STUDENTS OF COOPERATION (54%) University of Texas

PERSON: JAMES L JONES (50%) Gina Bellafante

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



572 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Mystery of Methane Levels in 90's Seems Solved 

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
For years, scientists have been trying to figure out why the atmospheric concentration of methane, a heat-trapping gas, stopped increasing in the early 1990's after tripling during the preceding 200 years. 
 Some scientists and environmental groups said the change could be a sign of success in efforts to stem emissions of methane, a gas that contributes to global warming. They included stanching pipeline leaks and capturing methane from landfills.
Now a new study by an international research team supports the suspicions of some experts that the leveling off was probably temporary and caused by a downturn in emissions from industry and most likely related to the collapse of the Soviet Union and its economy.
 After 1999, emissions from industry and other human activities began rising again, particularly in China, according to the study, which will be published today in the journal Nature. But that increase in methane from manmade sources appears to have been masked by a reduction in methane from sources in nature. Tropical droughts reduced methane released by bacteria in muddy wetlands, the study said. 
 Inez Y. Fung, an atmospheric scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, said the study was a convincing portrait of shifts in human and natural contributions to the methane mix in the atmosphere. 
 Methane is considered the second-most-important heat-trapping gas emitted by human activities, after carbon dioxide. Methane exists in the atmosphere as a trace of less than two parts per million, but has more than 20 times the heat-holding capacity of carbon dioxide.
 ''If methane's growth rate resumes its historic pace, its future contribution to global warming could be significant,'' said Edward J. Dlugokencky, a scientist at a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration laboratory in Boulder, Colo., and an author of the study.
 The researchers used a combination of measurements of regional variations in methane levels and computer simulations to determine that changes in specific sources were the most likely cause of the overall shift in concentrations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); METHANE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); METEOROLOGY (78%); WEATHER (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); MODELING & SIMULATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LANDFILLS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); WETLANDS (72%); WRITERS (68%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (50%) Weather; Methane; Carbon Dioxide; Global Warming; Research

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

PERSON: Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



573 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Suit Says 'Trust Us' Led to Fraud

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND and TOM ZELLER Jr.

DATELINE: MARTINSVILLE, Va., Sept. 27 

 BODY:
In a tightknit neighborhood, where people's social lives often revolve around their churches, Beulah Penn and her daughter, Sharon, were well-connected and trusted. Beulah Penn was a lay minister in a local church; her daughter, Sharon Penn, dressed hair. 
 Using these connections, according to a recent lawsuit, the two women and another relative in Indianapolis perpetrated one of the largest mortgage frauds in American history, victimizing dozens of local residents and, according to sources with knowledge of the accusations, at least $40 million in fraudulent loans -- perhaps even twice that amount.
 ''Looking back, maybe it sounded too good to be true, but everyone knew them, and my friends went to church with them, people I been knowing for 10 years,'' said Timothy Jacobs, a 29-year-old worker in a fiber-optics factory who discovered recently that he owed $200,000 on two houses in Indiana. ''They said they'd be responsible for everything. Now everyone's probably going to end up filing for bankruptcy.'' 
 The civil lawsuit, filed in June by one of the nation's largest mortgage lenders, describes an elaborate confidence game in which Martinsville residents with good credit ratings were enlisted last year to join what they believed was a risk-free investment in Indiana real estate. Instead, they found themselves responsible for hundreds of thousands of dollars in unpaid mortgages. 
 While no criminal charges have been filed, federal grand jury subpoenas are being prepared in Indiana, and further civil action at the federal level is expected to be filed against the investment group soon.
 Repeated calls and e-mail messages to people named as defendants in the lawsuit, both in Martinsville and in Indiana, as well as to some of their lawyers, were not returned. 
 The F.B.I. called mortgage fraud an ''epidemic'' last December, noting that losses associated with the crime had jumped to more than $1 billion last year from $429 million in 2004. Although the hot housing market that may have at least partly given rise to the fraud boom is cooling, officials say mortgage fraud losses are on pace to increase again this year. 
 Martinsville, a small Piedmont city of 14,925, once known for its Nascar track and its thriving textile mills, has lost both population and its economic base since the mills and furniture industries moved overseas in the 1990's. Small older houses and often empty businesses cluster in the center of town, with larger, more expensive developments -- like the ones the Penns moved to -- on the fringes. 
 The median household income is about half the state average. Mr. Jacobs, who was out of work for nine months after a mill closed, said he and his friends saw the real estate venture as a chance to get back on their feet after setbacks. ''Now we don't know what to do,'' he said. 
 Court papers filed by Countrywide Home Loans, the residential mortgage lender, say the Penns invited people to join an ''investor's club'' that would buy properties in Indiana and sell them at a profit. Club members were told they faced no risk. 
 According to court papers and to four participants, the investors were told they would not have to contribute any money but would simply allow their credit ratings to be used in acquiring the properties, which would be owned and managed by the group. Each were promised checks of at least $2,000. 
 But Mr. Jacobs and others were, by all appearances, the pawns in a quick-flip mortgage scheme, designed to gain control of a property at a low price and sell it quickly at a profit. The game is often rigged at every level -- from doctored applications, to bogus property appraisals, to the loan approvals themselves. 
 Documents reviewed by The New York Times suggest that even independent parties associated with closing the sales on the properties may have played a role in perpetrating the fraud, or demonstrated negligence in overseeing the transactions. 
 The Countrywide suit asserts, for instance, that the founder of the group, Robert Penn (the son of Beulah Penn and brother of Sharon Penn), acting through a variety of companies, secured purchasing agreements for Indiana properties at market value, then had them appraised at substantially higher rates. 
 Mr. Penn's group then bought the homes, according to the lawsuit and documents reviewed by The Times, in the names of the Martinsville residents at the inflated prices -- or even higher -- but paid only the agreed-to market price to the seller. Mr. Penn's companies then received the substantial difference, the documents contend. 
 Often the group closed on several properties in the same buyer's name on the same day, documents show. Kelvin Thompson, 44, a tire worker, said he discovered he was in trouble when he tried to borrow $1,000 from his credit union to buy presents last Christmas. 
 That is when Mr. Thompson learned that he owned five houses in Indiana, all in default, with mortgages totaling close to $1 million. 
 He said he could not have been more surprised. The Penns, he said, did not seem ''sophisticated enough'' to pull something like this off. ''We're very angry,'' he said, ''and also embarrassed for being suckered.''
 Many of the investors contacted were unwilling to discuss their cases -- some out of embarrassment, some out of suspicion of a stranger asking questions about their finances. Some said they had known the mother and daughter for so long that they still did not know what to think.
 Mildred, a municipal employee who said she was too embarrassed to be identified by her last name, said she trusted Sharon Penn ''because she was my girlfriend.'' 
 She added, ''She did my hair for four years.'' 
 Although she was not a member of Mrs. Penn's church, Mildred said, she knew that Beulah Penn was ''a minister, a woman of the cloth,'' and so she let down her guard. Even so, she said, when Sharon Penn approached her about joining the investment club, she resisted at first. ''But I saw people coming and going, this one got a check, that one got a check,'' she said. 
 She also saw that the Penns were making a lot of money and talking about how ''blessed'' they were, she said. She agreed to join, she said, on promises that she was part of a no-risk partnership in a development of brand-new houses on which payments were guaranteed by the federal government.
 From a leather valise in the back of her car his week, she produced documents showing that two of the three houses she owned were built in 1950 and 1917. The outstanding mortgages on the three homes total more than $500,000. The houses, she said, were worth about $30,000 each.
 ''I thought I was smarter than that,'' she said. ''But they were so smooth, and I saw so many people getting checks.''
 She added, ''Now my charge card limits went down and my interest rates went up. My daughter wants to get her master's, and I can't get a loan. I'm very proud of her and I can't help her.'' Repeated calls to Beulah Penn's home went directly to her voice mailbox, which was full. 
 William Stern, the mortgage fraud coordinator at the F.B.I. said the agency would not comment on whether it was investigating the Martinsville case. But he said the agency had recently uncovered similarly ambitious schemes. 
 In August last year, he said, the largest federal sentence for mortgage fraud -- 30 years -- was handed down to Chalana McFarland of Atlanta, for her role in a major flipping operation that netted $20 million from 1999 to 2002. As a testament to the elaborate nature of the modern mortgage fraud operation, also indicted were two paralegals, six loan originators, one broker, three real estate agents, three appraisers, three straw borrowers, one bank employee, an identity thief and a property manager.
 ''This represents an approach to mortgage fraud whereby an entire mortgage fraud ring is targeted and addressed,'' Mr. Stern said. 
 A Martinsville area minister who also lost money in the Penn investments expressed exasperation, but caution. Like others in town, he said he knew Beulah Penn professionally and Sharon Penn as an occasional visitor to his church. 
 ''Nobody has been charged here,'' he said, declining to be named because he did not want to embarrass his church. He said he was still holding out hope, ''that they just got caught up in this, just like I did.'' 
 In the meantime, he said, his whole life had been affected -- his family finances, his church, and his relationship with two couples whom he invited to invest.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dozens of residents of Martinsville, Va., were persuaded to join a mortgage investment group that is now the subject of a civil lawsuit. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LITIGATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RELIGION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); TEXTILE MFG (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); TEXTILES (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); LAWYERS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); TEXTILE MILLS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); GRAND JURY (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); SUBPOENAS (64%); NASCAR RACING (60%); FABRIC MILLS (60%); HISTORY (56%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%) Housing; Frauds and Swindling; Mortgages; Suits and Litigation; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Countrywide Home Loans (Co)

PERSON: John Leland; Tom Jr Zeller; Beulah Penn; Sharon Penn

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Indiana; Martinsville (Va)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



574 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Why I Should Run the U.N.; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: The Darfur Gap

BYLINE: By JAYANTHA DHANAPALA

 BODY:
The United Nations selects its next secretary general this fall through a series of straw polls. The third of these -- the most decisive to date -- will be held today. In the vote, the 15 members of the Security Council ''encourage,'' ''discourage'' or venture ''no opinion'' on each of the candidates. To win, a candidate must have at least nine encouraging votes and no discouragement from any of the five permanent members of the Security Council. The winner is then presented to the General Assembly for ratification. 
 The Op-Ed page asked all seven candidates to respond to two questions. First, we asked them to discuss an avoidable mistake the United Nations had made within the last five years. Second, we asked them what major reform they would undertake as secretary general. Five candidates gave us their answers. 
 THERE are many things the United Nations has done right. But like all institutions, it is fallible. Thus, as invidious as it may seem to single out one mistake, I must say that the violence in Darfur stands as an indictment against the United Nations. For three years, the suffering civilians there received little but hand-wringing, stopgap humanitarian efforts and an African Union peacekeeping force. Finally the Security Council last month voted to expand the United Nations mission in Sudan to include Darfur. That this resolution remains unenforced reflects the collective failure of the United Nations' membership and its institutions, including the Secretariat. 
 Darfur exposes the glaring absence of a rapid response mechanism for humanitarian disasters. Politics trumps compassion: the world has to wait for the Security Council to agree to act, for funds to be pledged and collected and troops to be deployed. We need a swiftly deployable humanitarian disaster management team, made up of experts from different disciplines supplied by member states. Members that have advanced satellite reconnaissance technology could provide early warning of disasters, both natural and manmade. And a small, robust force of rapidly deployable troops, with clear rules of engagement approved by the Security Council, would be necessary to protect humanitarian workers from attack or abduction.
 After the avoidable tragedies in Rwanda and Srebrenica, the prevention of genocide and ethnic cleansing is central to human security in all its dimensions, and it is crucial to the United Nations' founding mandate: to eliminate ''the scourge of war'' and ensure human rights, the rule of law and economic and social advancement. 
 JAYANTHA DHANAPALA, a senior adviser to the president of Sri Lanka, former ambassador to the United States and former United Nations under secretary general.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); GENOCIDE (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (68%); APPROVALS (64%); INDICTMENTS (52%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); AFRICAN UNION (55%) United Nations

PERSON: Jayantha Dhanapala

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); RWANDA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Sudan; Darfur (Sudan)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



575 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Midwest: Illinois: Wal-Mart Reaches Chicago 

BYLINE: By LIBBY SANDER (NYT)

 BODY:
Wal-Mart opened its first store in Chicago, a little more than two weeks after Mayor Richard M. Daley vetoed an ordinance requiring all ''big-box'' stores to pay their employees $10 an hour by 2010. More than 15,000 people applied to work at the 142,000-square-foot store, which is in the economically depressed Austin section on the West Side. Wal-Mart officials estimated that the store would produce 490 jobs. Critics of the chain's urban expansion, including some aldermen who were unable to override Mr. Daley's veto, said they would continue to push for higher wages for employees of the city's big-box stores. LIBBY SANDER (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RETAILERS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%) 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (93%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (93%)

PERSON: Libby Sander; Richard M (Mayor) Daley

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



576 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Atlantic Yards Developer Accepts 8% Reduction in Project

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
The developer of the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn said yesterday that the company would support changes proposed by the city planning commission earlier this week, including an 8 percent reduction in the project's size, additional public space and changes to the designs of several buildings. 
 Those changes were discussed at Monday's meeting of the planning commission and formally proposed in a letter to the developer, Forest City Ratner, released yesterday by Amanda M. Burden, the commission's chairwoman.
Ms. Burden also said the developer would ensure that at least 30 percent of the apartments built during the project's first phase will be below-market rental units. A total of 2,250 such rental units are planned for the project, which will have 8.7 million square feet. The developer, according to the letter, has also committed to building the remaining 70 percent during the second phase. 
 That commitment will be stipulated in housing and infrastructure subsidies that the city is negotiating with Forest City, which is also the development partner in building a new Midtown headquarters for The New York Times Company. 
 ''From our perspective, we're agreeing to their suggestions,'' said James P. Stuckey, an executive vice president with Forest City. ''We think their strategic cuts make sense from a planning point of view, and allow the affordable housing to get built.''
 Because the developer has not disclosed financial projections, however, it is difficult to determine if further cuts would have made it impossible for the developer to include the full allotment of low-cost housing.
 The company's agreement was to some extent preordained: yesterday's formal recommendations followed months of discussion. Moreover, the new reduction only brings the project back to the original size proposed in 2003. Critics and supporters of the project have called for it to be shrunk between a third and a half.
 Ms. Burden yesterday defended the relatively modest reduction in scale, saying that the project, which would extend east from the intersection of Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues near Downtown Brooklyn, would be in an ideal location for a high-density development. ''It is a transit hub,'' she added. ''It is at the crossroads of two wide avenues in Brooklyn. It can accommodate density, and density brings excitement, foot traffic, jobs.''
 The developer will also adopt suggestions to maximize retail use of the street level, leave more room between the project's residential buildings and widen entrances leading from surrounding streets into the project's open space. 
 The Empire State Development Corporation, which is sponsoring the $4.5 billion residential, office and arena development, must still formally incorporate the new design guidelines into the general project plan, which it is likely to do. Under state law, the development corporation may reject the commission's recommendations with a two-thirds vote of its board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%) Area Planning and Renewal; Housing

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (68%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Forest City Ratner

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (68%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (68%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%)

PERSON: Nicholas Confessore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Atlantic Yards (Brooklyn)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



577 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1717 words

HEADLINE: Rural Areas Left in Slow Lane Of High-Speed Data Highway 

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: CANAAN, Vt. 

 BODY:
For most businesses, the goal is to attract as many customers as possible. But in the fast-changing telephone industry, companies are increasingly trying to get rid of many of theirs.
 Bill and Ursula Johnson are among the unwanted. These dairy farmers in bucolic northeastern Vermont wake up before dawn not just to milk their cows, but to log on to the Internet, too.
Their dial-up connection is so pokey that the only time they can reliably get onto the Web site of the company that handles their payroll is at 4 in the morning, when it is less busy. Mr. Johnson doubles as state representative for the area, and he doesn't even bother logging on to deal with that. He communicates with colleagues in Montpelier, the capital, by phone and post instead.
 The Johnsons' communication agony could soon get worse. Instead of upgrading them to high-speed Internet access, Verizon, their local phone company, is looking to sell the 1.6 million local phone lines it controls in Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine. The possible sale is part of an internal plan called Project Nor'easter, according to a person with knowledge of the details. 
 A Verizon spokesman, John Bonomo, would not comment on the plan, but said the company ''continually evaluates the assets and properties in our portfolio for strategic fit and financial performance.''
 Verizon is not alone in its desire to reduce the number of landlines it owns. Big phone and cable companies are reluctant to upgrade and expand their networks in sparsely populated places where there are not enough customers to justify the investment. Instead, they are funneling billions of dollars into projects in cities and suburbs where the prospects for a decent return are higher.
 But those projects are unlikely to reach rural areas of Vermont and other states, leaving millions of people in the Internet's slow lane, just as high-speed access is becoming more of a necessity than a luxury. The United States already lags behind much of the industrialized world in broadband access.
 The lack of broadband has preserved places like Bessie's Diner as Canaan's de facto meeting hall. Over burgers and turkey club sandwiches, local residents swap tidbits that, in a more wired world, might end up in e-mail and instant messages.
 Helen Masson, who lost her job at an Ethan Allen furniture factory a few years ago, grumbles that the lack of broadband has made it harder for her to find work, despite taking computer classes. Mr. Johnson, sitting nearby, nods in agreement. ''The staff at the statehouse shudder when I'm on a committee because they have to lick a stamp instead of pressing a send button,'' he said. 
 Verizon has sold phone lines before. In 2005, the Carlyle Group bought its business in Hawaii. Verizon also sold 1.3 million lines in Alabama, Kentucky and Missouri in 2002.
 Others have followed. In May, Sprint Nextel spun off its local phone division with 7.1 million lines and renamed it Embarq. In July, Alltel spun off its local phone group and merged it with Valor Communications. 
 If Verizon does sell the New England lines, it would most likely be to a smaller company or private equity group that could be even less capable of offering fast Internet access. That prospect has Vermonters fearful that the exodus of jobs and employers from the state could accelerate.
 ''We have companies that lose money because they don't have broadband,'' said Maureen Connolly, a director at the Economic Development Council of Northern Vermont. ''We're not a third world country. We shouldn't have to beg for service.''
 While selling off slow-growing landlines in New England may please Verizon's shareholders seeking higher returns, the company's plan has reignited long-simmering political and economic debates about whether the region is being left behind as wealthier states nearby pull further ahead.
 The proceeds from any sale of New England lines would help Verizon pay for the potentially more lucrative fiber optic network it is building in and around cities like New York and Boston. 
 The network is part of Verizon's push to transform itself into a fast-growing technology company and shed its image as a stodgy utility.
 The possibility that Verizon would sell local lines is another sign of how much the phone business has changed in the last half decade. Verizon and other former local phone monopolies argue that since the cellphone, cable and Internet companies that are luring away millions of their customers are not compelled to serve remote and rural places, then they should not have to bear that burden either.
 In Vermont, Verizon has broadband available on just 56 percent of its 330,000 lines, compared with 95 percent for most local phone companies, which receive substantial federal subsidies. Without the same aid, Verizon must bear more of the financial burden to upgrade its network. 
 ''Vermont -- like all rural states -- has higher fixed costs of providing service,'' said Polly Brown, president of Verizon Vermont, where the number of landlines has declined 9.1 percent since 2002. ''You're spreading those costs over fewer customers, who are located far and wide, and you're dealing with topographical challenges such as mountains and a rock base.''
 Residents, unions and politicians in Vermont do not dispute that the phone business is a challenging one, but they say that residents will have a harder time telecommuting or home-schooling their children. Towns like Canaan will not have access to the growing number of government records kept online, they say, and hotels and other tourist attractions will have a harder time attracting outsiders.
 Take Michael and Louise Kingston, who have had a summer home in nearby Averill for the last 35 years. Owners of a grape-growing company with vineyards in Chile and California, they often cut their vacations short and return home to New Jersey because they cannot run their business on the 26-kilobit dial-up line -- a speed considered fast in 1993 -- in Averill. 
 ''It means we can spend less time here, which means you spend less money here at a time when the local economy needs it,'' Mr. Kingston said.
 Connections are so slow that their son drives 25 miles south to Island Pond to find a broadband line. There is no cellphone service either, so when locals go to areas where there is reception, they take along other peoples' phones to retrieve their voice mail for them. In places where Verizon does not sell high-speed Internet, some people have the option of getting broadband from their cable provider. But in Vermont, cable companies have focused on more populous towns like Montpelier and Burlington, the state's largest city. Cable coverage in the northeast part of the state is spotty.
 Several rural phone carriers have spoken to Verizon about its lines in New England, including Fairpoint Communications, CenturyTel and Citizens Communications, according to people with knowledge of the discussions. Buyout firms may also be considering the business.
 Rural phone lines can be profitable because the basic infrastructure was paid for years ago, there are often few competitors and subsidies from the Universal Service Fund, which helps carriers provide service to hard-to-reach consumers, can be substantial.
 But the subsidies do not benefit all carriers equally. For example, Vermont Telecom, which has 21,000 phone lines in the state, will receive $24.34 a month per line in the fourth quarter from the fund, money that is credited to customers on their bills.
 But as a larger carrier, Verizon will receive one-tenth the subsidy, or $2.42 per phone line. Any company that buys Verizon's lines will inherit the same subsidies, making such a deal a less attractive investment. Verizon could compensate by lowering its sale price, at the risk of disappointing shareholders.
 The economics of providing broadband in rural areas are discouraging, too. The cost of upgrading an existing copper line that runs from switching stations to remote homes can be as much as $5,000, according to the National Exchange Carrier Association. Such costs are prohibitive for phone companies, which typically want to make back their money within three years, said Victor Glass, the director of demand forecasting at the carrier association. 
 Though frustrations with Verizon run high in places like Canaan, the alternatives are more alarming. Since it took over Verizon's lines in Hawaii, the Carlyle Group has had billing problems that caused a fourfold spike in consumer complaints.
 Carlyle's experience could presage what rural areas like northern Vermont might face if Verizon departs, particularly if the buyer sharply cuts costs and jobs.
 ''We would rather deal with Verizon because there's a process in place and people up and down the food chain that we know,'' said Darlene Stone, an operator at a Verizon call center in South Burlington and chief steward in the Communications Workers of America, which represents 135 Verizon employees in Vermont. ''Private equity funds are not people who are going to be interested in our opinions.''
 The possibility that a sale could lead to worse service has put regulators in the uneasy position of trying to pressure Verizon to do more while not alienating the company, which invested 37 percent less in its network in Vermont last year than in 2001.
 In 2005, the Public Service Board fined Verizon $8.1 million for providing inadequate customer service in Vermont. This year, regulators also got Verizon to agree to expand its broadband coverage to 80 percent of its phone lines by 2010.
 That holds out some hope for isolated areas, but there is no guarantee that any particular customer, like the Johnsons, will be among the 80 percent and there is no guarantee that Verizon will still be in Vermont by then. 
 Alternative broadband providers who could fill that gap face problems, too. Jake Marsh, who runs Island Pond Wireless, a company that beams high-speed Internet signals over strings of antennas, has signed up 250 customers and has a waiting list just as long. But to expand, he is counting on towns getting state funds to help defray the installation costs.
 Yet officials in Norton, 15 miles west of Canaan, could not download the 20-page grant application because their dial-up line was so slow.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenn Stransky, left
Bill Johnson
Jean Louis Masson
 and his wife, Louise-Helene Masson, use a diner in Canaan, Vt., as a meeting hall to trade tidbits that in a more wired world might end up in e-mail messages. (Photo by Caleb Kenna for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Map of Vermont shows the location of Canaan: Northeast Vermont lacks high-speed access to the Internet. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BROADBAND (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (74%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); POPULATION DENSITY (73%); DAIRY FARMING (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); INSTANT MESSAGING (71%); DISMISSALS (60%); FURNITURE MFG (50%) 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Verizon Communications Inc

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); CG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (73%) VERMONT, USA (96%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Eng00083400tes (US); New York City; Boston (Mass); New Hampshire; Maine 00083500; Vermont

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



578 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: DEMOCRATS CITE NEW HOPE IN BID TO RETAKE SENATE

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Six weeks before Election Day, the Democrats suddenly face a map with unexpected opportunities in their battle for control of the Senate.
 In Virginia, a state that few expected to be seriously competitive, Senator George Allen looks newly vulnerable after a series of controversies over charges of racial insensitivity, strategists in both parties say. In Tennessee, another Southern state long considered safely red, Representative Harold E. Ford Jr., a Democrat, has run a strong campaign that has kept that state in contention.
Elsewhere, Democratic challengers are either ahead or close in races in five states held by the Republicans: Missouri, Montana, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, according to political strategists in both parties and the latest polls. 
 All of these races could shift direction in a matter of days, let alone six weeks, and Republicans are counting on their superior finances and large blocks of television advertising to hold the line. Democrats also have their own vulnerabilities, particularly in New Jersey, where Senator Robert Menendez is in a tight race with his Republican challenger, State Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr., according to recent polls.
 Democrats must win six Republican seats to regain a Senate majority, meaning they would have to win nearly every close race. Even the most optimistic Democrats acknowledge that such a feat would require a big anti-Republican wave, a lot of money and a lot of luck.
 Still, a shift in the Senate was always considered a long shot this year. Some analysts now say, however, that there are enough Republican seats facing serious challenges to make it at least plausible. 
 ''There's a big difference in talking about six seats in play and not five,'' said Stuart Rothenberg, an independent analyst.
 In Pennsylvania, Rick Santorum, the No. 3 Republican in the Senate, has been lagging behind Bob Casey, the state treasurer, for months. In Rhode Island, Senator Lincoln Chafee, a Republican, overcame his primary challenge, but remains locked in a tight race with Sheldon Whitehouse, the Democrat and former state attorney general.
 Senator Mike Dewine, Republican of Ohio, is fighting an unhappy political mood in his state, stoked by local Republican scandals and economic unease.. Independent polls suggest Mr. Dewine remains in a tight race with his Democratic challenger, Representative Sherrod Brown.
 In Montana, Senator Conrad Burns, the Republican, has been considered vulnerable for months to his Democratic challenger, Jon Tester, a farmer and state senator. And any route to a majority for the Democrats would have to include Missouri, where Senator Jim Talent, the Republican, is being challenged by Claire McCaskill, the state auditor.
 Republicans' hopes for a pickup look strongest, at the moment, in New Jersey. But another target is the open Democratic seat in Maryland, where Lt. Gov. Michael Steele is running against Representative Benjamin L. Cardin, a Democrat still trying to unify his party after a competitive primary campaign.
 Republican strategists acknowledge the intensely competitive map but say they are ready for it.
 ''Anybody who says there's no way the Democrats could regain control of the Senate, that's just wishful thinking,'' said Glen Bolger, a Republican pollster active in numerous House and Senate races. ''But there's a long way between could and would, and the Republican resource advantage is just now coming to bear.''
 Democrats are upbeat but wary.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said: ''We will pick up seats. And if the stars continue to align, we can take back the Senate.'' 
 Republicans say they have the money not only to defend their seats, but also to put Democrats on the defensive in Maryland, New Jersey and elsewhere.
 ''We obviously knew all along many of our Republicans were going to have difficult races, and they've known that as well, which is why they have more resources than their counterparts and are able to push back,'' said Brian Nick, spokesman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee.
 Republican Senate candidates are getting a major boost from the Republican National Committee, which is financing an advertising campaign so far focused largely on Missouri, Ohio and Tennessee. This is widely viewed as a firewall strategy: If Republicans hold onto even one of those seats, it stymies the Democrats' hopes of regaining a majority.
 Mr. Schumer said, ''The 800-pound gorilla is the money the R.N.C. is pouring into those races.''
 Republicans also argue that six weeks out, many voters are only beginning to pay attention. In Tennessee, for example, Ben Mitchell, campaign manager for the Republican Senate candidate, former Mayor Bob Corker of Chattanooga, said voters would reject Mr. Ford when they learned about his voting record, which Republicans assert is at odds with his centrist image. 
 Pete Brodnitz, a pollster for Mr. Ford, countered that Tennessee voters had a ''big appetite for change.'' 
 Perhaps the most unexpected development this year is the competition in two Southern states. Democrats have fared poorly in the South in recent years, which has accounted, in large part, for their difficulty in gaining a Senate majority.
 Tennessee, where the seat is held by the retiring majority leader, Bill Frist, is drawing intense interest from national Republicans. President Bush was in Memphis on Wednesday to raise money for Mr. Corker.
 The Virginia race -- between Mr. Allen and Jim Webb, the Democrat -- looked safe for the Republicans until Mr. Allen made a demeaning reference to a young American man of Indian descent -- a Webb campaign worker -- at a rally in August. Then, last week, Mr. Allen reacted angrily to a reporter's question about whether his mother had been born Jewish, which began another distracting episode for his campaign.
 This week, he has faced accusations that he used racist slurs in the 1970's and 1980's -- allegations that Mr. Allen has flatly denied.
 This week, Mr. Allen's campaign manager, Dick Wadhams, described the race as ''competitive,'' but asserted that would change as it became clear that Mr. Webb ''stands with John Kerry, Ted Kennedy, Chuck Schumer and Hillary Clinton.''
 Steve Jarding, an adviser to Mr. Webb, described the race as a dead heat, and said that while Mr. Allen retained a financial advantage, Mr. Webb's fund-raising had soared of late.
 Both parties are watching to see if Mr. Webb can take advantage of his new opening.
 Analysts say the level of Senate competition should come as no surprise; Senate races are more likely to reflect national trends, they say, whereas most House districts are so carefully drawn on partisan lines that ''they are safe against anything but a hurricane,'' said Gary C. Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California, San Diego.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush was in Memphis yesterday to raise money for the Republican, Bob Corker, former mayor of Chattanooga. (Photo by Mark Humphrey/Associated Press)
 In Tennessee, Representative Harold E. Ford Jr., a Democrat, is running a strong race for the seat being vacated by Bill Frist, a Republican, who is retiring. Pete Brodnitz, a Ford pollster, said voters have a ''big appetite for change.'' (Photo by Andrew McMurtrie/The Jackson Sun, via Associated Press)(pg. A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (62%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (53%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US) 

PERSON: BOB CORKER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BOB MENENDEZ (79%); BOB CASEY (78%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); KENT CONRAD (58%); BEN CARDIN (58%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%); SHERROD BROWN (58%); JON TESTER (58%); SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (58%); RICK SANTORUM (57%); MICHAEL STEELE (54%) Robin Toner; George (Sen) Allen; Harold E Jr (Rep) Ford; Thomas H Jr (Sen) Kean; Robert (Sen) Menendez

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (72%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; Virginia; Tennessee; Missouri 00079100; United States; Montana; Ohio; Pennsyl00079400; Rhode Island; New Jersey; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



579 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: Balancing Act: U.S. Welcomes Kazakh Leader 

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and ILAN GREENBERG

DATELINE: ASTANA, Kazakhstan, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
When Vice President Dick Cheney came to this oil-rich Central Asian nation this spring he expressed admiration for what he called its ''political development.'' Yet just a day before his visit began, the authoritarian government effectively shut down the two most prominent American democracy organizations working here.
 While American officials are negotiating to reverse the government's decision, they have yet to complain about it publicly.
As President Bush prepares to receive the Kazakh president, Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, at a state dinner in Washington on Friday, the episode reflects the delicate balance the administration has struck with a country of growing strategic importance that has a record of corruption, flawed elections and rights violations, including the killings of two opposition leaders in the last year in disputed circumstances. 
 Critics here say the episode also illustrates the Bush administration's willingness to sacrifice democracy, a centerpiece of its foreign policy, when it conflicts with other foreign policy goals. 
 ''There are four enemies of human rights: oil, gas, the war on terror and geopolitical considerations,'' said Yevgeny A. Zhovtis of the Kazakhstan International Bureau for Human Rights and Rule of Law, an organization that has received financing from the American Embassy and the National Endowment for Democracy. ''And we have all four.''
 The Bush administration has promoted democratic reforms in Kazakhstan for years, but it also appears eager to mollify a president who has been a comparatively moderate Muslim leader in Central Asia, who has allowed NATO aircraft headed to Afghanistan to fly over the country and sent a company of soldiers to Iraq, and who controls vast resources of oil and gas, much of it extracted by American companies.
 In a meeting on Monday in New York with Foreign Minister Kasymzhomart Tokayev, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice spoke generally about democracy and human rights in Kazakhstan, a senior State Department official said, but did not raise the matter of the two democracy groups -- the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs and the International Republican Institute. 
 In Washington, Frederick Jones, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said the White House was aware of the problem with the institutes but added that he could not say whether President Bush would raise it this week, since the discussions were not scripted in advance. Still, he said, ''Democratization is a very important part of the agenda.'' 
 The backlash against promotion of democracy is by no means limited to Kazakhstan. The institutes, which are nonprofit, nonpartisan groups financed by the United States government, have been eyed warily not just here but in Russia, China and an array of authoritarian Central Asian countries that were alarmed by the ''color revolutions'' in Serbia, Georgia and, particularly, Ukraine.
 As outlined in a recent report by the National Endowment for Democracy, many of them, including Kazakhstan, have followed the lead of Russia and severely restricted nongovernmental organizations. Some countries, notably Belarus, but also the Persian Gulf state of Bahrain, have closed them down altogether. 
 For Kazakhstan, as for the Bush administration, the coming visit has created an opportunity for improving relations that have been strained in recent years, even as Russia has taken advantage of its own political and economic influence.
 The strains have stemmed from American concerns over corruption, restrictions on the news media and President Nazarbayev's consolidation of political control.
 The Kazakh government has its own concerns with American policy. They include a criminal case in New York against James H. Giffen, an American businessman, that implicates Mr. Nazarbayev in a bribery scheme dating from the 1990's, and lukewarm American support for Kazakhstan's bid to preside over the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
 Here in Kazakhstan, Mr. Nazarbayev's visit has been portrayed as a chance for him to enhance his international prestige by improving relations with the United States. ''The time has come when we can raise our relations to a completely new level,'' Mr. Nazarbayev told reporters in Astana earlier this month.
 Kazakhstan, the ninth largest country in the world in area but with only 15 million people, the majority of them Muslims, has experienced an energy-fueled economic boom that has transformed it into a regional power.
 Mr. Nazarbayev is genuinely popular inside the country, though that popularity is certainly nurtured by the government's control of television, which provides lavish, uncritical coverage. Even independent surveys of voters leaving the polls showed him winning re-election handily last December, with a vote as high as 82 percent, compared with the official result of 91 percent. The lower figure came from a poll financed by the International Republican Institute.
 Mr. Nazarbayev's opponents said the government's need to pad what would have been a clear victory anyway highlighted a growing trend toward authoritarianism. Oraz Jandosov, a co-chairman of a democratic opposition party, True Bright Path, said the most disturbing consequences of the power and impunity enveloping Mr. Nazarbayev's government were the deaths of two opposition leaders.
 One, Zamanbek N. Nurkadilov, was found shot three times, once in the head, last November. His death was subsequently declared a suicide. The other, Altynbek Sarsenbaiuly, was killed in February along with two bodyguards on a road outside Almaty, the country's biggest city.
 In August, an aide in the upper house of Parliament, Yerzhan Utembayev, and several officers of the secret services were convicted of those killings, though few here believed the declared motive: that Mr. Utembayev had been angered that Mr. Sarsenbaiuly had accused him of being a drunk in a newspaper interview three years earlier.
 The actions against the American democracy programs followed soon after Mr. Sarsenbaiuly's killing, reflecting a trend to stifle any open discussion of the country's problem.
 In a letter to the American Embassy, a copy of which was shown to The New York Times, Kazakh prosecutors charged the two institutes under a law that forbids ''material assistance'' to political parties. The institutes were accused of ''the handing over of materials'' and ''illegal instances of transport'' during their work with political and civic groups.
 The accusations fit a pattern of harassment in the months leading up to last year's election, when government tax and financial agencies repeatedly investigated and audited dozens of private organizations. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the institution Mr. Nazarbayev hopes to lead as chairman in 2009, criticized the election for ''a number of significant shortcomings,'' including ''an atmosphere of intimidation.''
 Four American officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the continuing negotiations over the institutes, said neither institute had paid for or otherwise supported partisan activity.
 Two people involved in the discussions said former Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Senator John McCain of Arizona, the chairwoman and chairman of the Democratic and Republican institutes respectively, had written a letter to Mr. Bush urging him to raise the issue with Mr. Nazarbayev during his visit.
 American officials continue to express support for Kazakhstan's opposition and for democracy here in general.
 Mr. Cheney, when he visited, met over breakfast with opposition leaders for an hour and 20 minutes in a hotel in Astana, the capital. Mr. Jandosov, who was there, said he welcomed the chance to explain ''what the real situation was,'' but expressed regret that the meeting came the morning after Mr. Cheney appeared in public with Mr. Nazarbayev and expressed support for him.
 Murat Laumulin of the Kazakhstan Institute of Strategic Studies, a research organization with close ties to the government, said Mr. Nazarbayev's government had made concessions to the United States in the field of energy and in the Bush administration's fight against Islamic terrorism, among other areas, and thus merited a reprieve in demands for swift democratization.
 ''Kazakhstan has gone along with a lot of the American oil agenda with the unspoken understanding that the Kazakhstan population is not going to be provoked,'' Mr. Laumulin said. ''There isn't to be a 'color revolution' here, and for five to seven years we don't have to worry about needing to introduce genuine democracy. We get a strategic pause.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 4, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Thursday about the relationship between the United States and Kazakhstan referred incorrectly to the meal that the Bush administration had planned for the Kazakh president, Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, during his visit to Washington on Friday. It was lunch, not a state dinner.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dick Cheney visited President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan, center, in May. Mr. Nazarbayev is to visit Washington. (Pool photo by Shawn Thew)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); CORRUPTION (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY (55%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) Steven Lee Myers; Ilan Greenberg; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Nursultan A (Pres) Nazarbayev

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SERBIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Kazakhstan; Kazakhstan; Kazakhstan

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



580 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Report Is Due in '07; Skeptics Want To See It Now

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
In the fall of 2002, weeks before the midterm elections, American intelligence agencies were racing to complete an assessment of Iraq as the Senate prepared to vote on a resolution sought by the White House to prepare the groundwork for war. 
 Four years later, in the shadow of another midterm campaign, the agencies are again drafting a formal assessment on Iraq. But this time, the document is one that the White House might prefer to see finished later rather than sooner. 
In mid-August, John D. Negroponte, the director of national intelligence, gave the go-ahead for a National Intelligence Estimate that will address security in Iraq and the potential for civil war there. White House and intelligence officials say the work is still in its early stages and will not be done until next year. 
 But Democrats contend that the White House is ''slow rolling'' the document -- that is, deliberately withholding what could be bleak conclusions -- until after the November elections. The Democrats have intensified those complaints since the White House, under political pressure, on Tuesday released parts of a separate intelligence report, a sober assessment of global terrorism.
 On Wednesday, Representative Jane Harman of California, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, even said sources had told her that a draft of the document had been finished.
 ''I have heard that it's complete, and that it's grim,'' Ms. Harman said. 
 Tony Snow, the White House spokesman, fired back, calling Ms. Harman's assertion ''flat wrong.'' 
 ''There is not a waiting Iraq document that reflects the National Intelligence Estimate that's sitting around gathering dust waiting until after the election,'' Mr. Snow said. 
 The intelligence estimate is being done at the behest of members of Congress, including Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas and chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee. It will be the American intelligence community's first comprehensive assessment on the state of the Iraqi insurgency and the sectarian violence in the country since the summer of 2004.
 Intelligence analysts are supposed to keep political calculations out of their work. At the same time, those who have worked at the National Intelligence Council, the group in charge of producing the intelligence estimates, say the sometimes politically charged nature of the reports' conclusions make it impossible to operate in a political vacuum. 
 ''The challenge for intelligence officers is how to walk a fine line, not only with regard to judgments, but with regard to timing,'' said Paul R. Pillar, who until a year ago oversaw American intelligence assessments about the Middle East. 
 Alan Pino, Mr. Pillar's successor at the National Intelligence Council, is now the one walking the fine line. As the national intelligence officer for assessments about the Middle East, Mr. Pino is in charge of a process that usually lasts several months: from first deciding what specific subjects a National Intelligence Estimate will examine to ensuring that the government's 16 intelligence agencies sign off on the final draft. 
 The clock on the current report started running with Mr. Negroponte's approval in August, and on Tuesday, Frances Fragos Townsend, the president's domestic security adviser, said it would probably be completed in January. 
 In a letter to Mr. Negroponte on Wednesday, Ms. Harman called the timetable ''unacceptable,'' and suggested that he might be trying to hold the report until after Election Day.
 ''N.I.E.'s have been produced in as little as several weeks, as in the case of the 2002 report on Iraqi W.M.D.,'' Ms. Harmon wrote. 
 Republicans counter that the 2002 Iraq assessment was hardly a model to emulate. Several government investigations have discredited the conclusions of that report, which asserted that Saddam Hussein had stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons. That estimate was hastily assembled in the fall of 2002, requested by lawmakers who said they wanted the intelligence community's best judgments about Iraq before they voted to authorize the invasion.
 But after American troops invaded Iraq in March 2003, Iraq became the primary focus of American intelligence agencies. They have produced volumes of analysis on the insurgency and sectarian violence in Iraq, and on the political and economic situation there. 
 This, some experts say, already gives intelligence officials the building blocks for a National Intelligence Estimate that could be completed in a relatively short time.
 ''There's not a lot of basic research that needs to be done, that's for sure,'' Mr. Pillar said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (94%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); WALKING & JOGGING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TERRORISM (71%) Security and Warning Systems; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Intelligence Services; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Election Issues; Elections

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US) ; House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: JANE HARMAN (77%); PAT ROBERTS (58%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (58%) Mark Mazzetti

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



581 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: A Platform Of Bigotry

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
George Allen, the clownish, Confederate-flag-loving senator from Virginia, has apparently been scurrying around for many years, spreading his racially offensive garbage like a dog that should be curbed. With harsh new allegations emerging daily, it's fair to ask:
 Where are the voices of reason in the Republican Party -- the nonbigoted voices? Why haven't we heard from them on this matter? 
Mr. Allen has long been touted as one of the leading candidates for the Republican presidential nomination in 2008. But this is a man who has displayed the quintessential symbol of American bigotry, the Confederate battle flag, on the wall of his living room; who put up a hangman's noose as a decoration in his law office; who used an ethnic slur -- macaca -- in an attempt to publicly embarrass a 20-year-old American student of Indian descent; and who, according to the recollections of a number of his acquaintances, frequently referred to blacks as niggers.
 The senator has denied the last allegation. But his accusers are low-keyed, straight-arrow professionals who have no obvious ax to grind. They, frankly, seem believable.
 Dr. R. Kendall Shelton, a North Carolina radiologist who played football with Mr. Allen at the University of Virginia in the 1970's, recalled a number of incidents, including one in which Mr. Allen said that blacks in Virginia knew their place. Dr. Shelton said in a television interview that he believed then, and still believes, that Mr. Allen was a racist.
 Beyond the obvious problems with the senator's comments and his behavior is the fact that he so neatly fits into the pattern of racial bigotry, insensitivity and exploitation that has characterized the G.O.P. since it adopted its Southern strategy some decades ago. Once it was the Democrats who provided a comfortable home for public officials with attitudes and policies that were hostile to blacks and other minorities. Now the deed to that safe house has been signed over to the G.O.P.
 Ronald Reagan may be revered by Republicans, but I can never forget that he opposed both the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act of the mid-1960's, and that as a presidential candidate he kicked off his 1980 general election campaign in Philadelphia, Miss., which just happened to be where three civil rights workers -- Andrew Goodman, Michael Schwerner and James Chaney -- were savagely murdered in 1964.
 During his appearance in Philadelphia, Reagan told a cheering crowd, ''I believe in states' rights.''
 The lynching of Goodman, Schwerner and Chaney (try to imagine the terror they felt throughout their ordeal) is the kind of activity symbolized by the noose that Senator Allen felt compelled to put up in his office.
 One of the senator's Republican colleagues, Conrad Burns, is up for re-election in Montana. He's got an ugly racial history, too. Several years ago, while campaigning for a second term, Mr. Burns was approached by a rancher who wanted to know what life was like in Washington. The rancher said, ''Conrad, how can you live back there with all those niggers?''
 Senator Burns said he told the rancher it was ''a hell of a challenge.''
 The senator later apologized. But he has bounced from one racially insensitive moment to another over the years, including one occasion when he referred to Arabs as ''ragheads.''
 You don't hear President Bush or the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, or any other prominent Republicans blowing the whistle on the likes of George Allen and Conrad Burns because Republicans across the board, so-called moderates as well as conservatives, have benefited tremendously from the party's bigotry. Allen and Burns may have been more blatant and buffoonish than is acceptable, but they have all been singing from the same racially offensive hymnal.
 From the Willie Horton campaign to the intimidation of black voters in Florida and elsewhere to the use of every racially charged symbol and code word imaginable -- it's all of a piece. 
 The late Lee Atwater, in a 1981 interview, explained the evolution of the Southern strategy:
 ''You start out in 1954 by saying, 'Nigger, nigger, nigger! By 1968 you can't say 'nigger' -- that hurts you. Backfires. So you say stuff like forced busing, states' rights and all that stuff. You're getting so abstract now [that] you're talking about cutting taxes, and all these things you're talking about are totally economic things and a byproduct of them is [that] blacks get hurt worse than whites.''
 It's been working beautifully for the G.O.P. for decades. Why would the president or anyone else curtail a winning strategy now? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTION LAW (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%) George F (Sen) Allen; Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Virginia; United States; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



582 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: The Grand Delusion

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
You probably know Daniel Defoe as the author of ''Robinson Crusoe,'' but he was also a journalist, and in 1705, he noticed a gigantic change occurring around him. ''The Power of Nations,'' he wrote, ''is not now measur'd, as it has been, by Prowess, Gallantry, and Conduct. 'Tis the Wealth of Nations that makes them Great.''
 In other words, nations had begun measuring themselves not by whom they conquered, but by how they fared in the competition for economic success. This was a major shift in consciousness, and as the great historian of nationalism, Liah Greenfeld, observes, today you can see a wide variety of societies -- the U.S., Japan, China, India, Europe -- that define their national greatness in this way. 
 The Arab world, though famous for its bazaars, has not defined national glory economically, Greenfeld adds. Instead, the rising radical groups today define greatness negatively through acts of anti-Western defiance. 
 Superseding market entrepreneurs, there are terror entrepreneurs competing to see who can issue the most militant call and perform the most galvanizing act of violence. They are driven by resentment toward the West, but also by the internal competition for prestige and standing.
 To his eternal credit, after 9/11 George Bush quickly understood that the terror threat was fundamentally an ideological threat, a product of deep historical consciousness. To his eternal discredit, he didn't commit enough resources to successfully defeat and discredit that ideology. The chance to deliver the sort of blow that the Six Day War delivered to an earlier version of Arab nationalism may now be lost.
 As a result, as the National Intelligence Estimate makes clear, the West now faces a diverse and metastasizing set of foes. The report also makes clear that while the Iraq war has so far enhanced the prestige of the terrorists, Iraq remains the crucial battleground where they will either gain glory or face humiliation. 
 If we lived in a serious political culture, we'd be discussing what we've learned from Iraq and how to proceed. Instead, all of Washington is involved in a juvenile game of gotcha. Bill Clinton is fighting about what did or didn't happen 10 years ago. The White House is still exaggerating the positive. Democratic senators purr like happy kittens as retired generals slam Donald Rumsfeld, and then stop up their ears when those same generals call for more troops and a longer war.
 Voters now confront a Republican Party that understands the breadth of the threat but has bungled the central campaign, and a Democratic Party that is quick to criticize but lacks an understanding of the jihadists and a strategy for confronting them.
 Worse, more and more people are falling for the Grand Delusion -- the notion that if we just leave the extremists alone, they will leave us alone. On the right, some believe that if we just stop this Wilsonian madness of trying to introduce democracy into the Arab world, we can return to an age of stability and balance. On the left, many people can't seem to fathom an enemy the U.S. isn't somehow responsible for. Others think the entire threat has been exaggerated by Karl Rove for the sake of political scaremongering.
 Perhaps it's understandable that many Americans would fall for this Grand Delusion. The Israelis, who have more experience with Islamic extremism, recently did. They imagined that they could build a security barrier and unilaterally withdraw from their historical reality. It took the war in south Lebanon to make them see there is no way to unilaterally withdraw. There is no way to become a normal society. Even if they pulled out of Lebanon, Gaza and the West Bank, they would still have to confront an existential foe, so long as the forces of political Islam continued to wage their competition for anti-Semitic glory all around. 
 The blunt fact is that groups of Islamic extremists will continue to compete and grow until mainstream Islamic moderates can establish a more civilized set of criteria for prestige and greatness. Today's extremists are not the product of short-term historical circumstances, but of consciousness and culture. They are not the fault of the United States, but have roots stretching back centuries. They will not suddenly ignore their foe -- us -- when their hatred of us is the core of their identity.
 The National Intelligence Estimate predicts terror violence will get worse in the years ahead. The scarier estimate was made by a veteran of the 1948 Arab-Israeli war, in conversation with his grandson who now lives in Boston: ''This is forever.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HISTORY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); IRAQ WAR (70%); ARMED FORCES (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: Nationa00067800igence Council

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



583 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: After a Seven-Year Ban, Salmon Fishing Returns to Maine

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

DATELINE: EDDINGTON, Me. 

 BODY:
Forget your trout, your striped bass. Wild Atlantic salmon are a fisherman's Holy Grail. 
 They are fickle, finicky and feisty, and, in recent years in this country, few and far between.
So scarce that in 1999, Maine, the last American bastion of wild Atlantic salmon, closed its rivers to salmon fishing to save the salmon, whose numbers had shrunk from pollution, dams and other forces. But it dealt a blow to fishermen around the country, especially those who recall the heyday, when the first silvery salmon caught in Maine each year went to none other than the president of the United States.
 Now, with salmon slowly returning, Maine has opened its first wild salmon season in seven years -- a month of restricted fishing on the state's storied Penobscot River.
 It is drawing people from as far as Washington State and South Carolina, in hip-waders and in boats. 
 [But it took until Wednesday, nearly two weeks after opening day, for the first salmon to be caught. 
 [It was landed by Beau Peavey, a 22-year-old junior in college (''I took two years off to fish,'' he said), who is such a devotee he has been on the river before sunrise every morning and again every evening since the season's first day. The salmon -- a frisky 32-inch 12-pounder that fought back with ''four jumps and a couple of good long runs'' -- was caught after Mr. Peavey abandoned his own flies and used a pink fly created years ago by a now-deceased member of his salmon club. 
 [''From the time I was 9, I spent every waking minute up there fishing,'' he said. ''The river closed when I was 15, and I caught one of the last legal fish in 1999. I fish religiously -- that's my life.'' Mr. Peavey is a spring chicken in the salmon game here.]
 Before dawn on opening day, Bill Claus, 79, waded into the shimmering river, having thought he would not live long enough to fish for salmon here again. Also there was Ivan Mallett, 87, who caught a ''presidential fish'' 25 years ago and hand-carried it to the White House and into the arms of Vice President George H. W. Bush (who was on salmon duty because President Ronald Reagan had been shot and was in the hospital.)
 Although most fishermen have been outfoxed by the fish so far, few seem to mind. ''A salmon is called a fish of a thousand casts,'' said Dick Ruhlin, president of the Eddington Salmon Club. ''For most people, to catch one is the catch of a lifetime.''
 The Eddington club and others were once so overflowing with anglers that a club member had to die for someone to get off the waiting list. Since the salmon ban, membership has dwindled, clubs have mostly been fishing for cribbage cards, and ''we're begging for people to come in,'' said Bob Wengrzynek, president of the Maine Council of the Atlantic Salmon Federation.
 ''A lot of the clubs have people who don't fish anymore because they can't, but 20 years ago they caught a salmon,'' Mr. Wengrzynek said. ''It's not about fishing, it's about the social structure. A lot of people will fish vicariously. When there's one person fishing, there's 20 people watching, and, by extension, that's 21 people fishing.''
 So it was not surprising that Charlie Colburn, 84, showed up, even though arthritis keeps him from casting a line. ''Holy mackerel,'' he said, cane-hobbling along the riverbank. ''I think it's just great. So these people do get a chance to fish for that fish, to have the honor of hooking one of those fish, the king of all fish. There's no fish that can touch her.''
 But the king of all fish has proven vulnerable to manmade meddling. Pollution from paper mills, blasting by logging companies, and dams that impede salmon migration helped slice the Penobscot salmon population to 530 in 2000, from nearly 5,000 20 years ago, said Patrick Keliher, executive director of the Maine Atlantic Salmon Commission.
 Other efforts to restore salmon included restocking fish and tracking them with transponders. An environmental coalition is raising $25 million to buy three dams from a power company, tear down two of them and build a fish bypass around the third.
 But while the dam project is expected to restore thousands of salmon, it will take years. And with just over 1,000 salmon currently in the Penobscot, Maine's largest river, Mr. Keliher said, state biologists felt they could allow limited fishing, with the hope of ultimately resurrecting a sport that once drew millions of tourism dollars into Maine's economy.
 ''This is a big balancing act for us,'' Mr. Keliher said. ''Can we continue to have positive restoration efforts at the same time we're conducting recreational angling? We're going to eat the elephant one bite at a time.''
 Maine is starting with baby steps: fall fishing, when salmon are smaller; catch-and-release only; no barbs on fishhooks; and no fishing when the water temperature hits 70 degrees because hooked fish recover better in cooler water. Mr. Keliher said each salmon reaching the Veazie Dam, where they are temporarily trapped, will be checked to see if it was hooked and what condition it is in. If the fish seem to withstand the fall season, Maine may allow the more-popular spring fishing.
 The restrictions satisfied most environmentalists, said Andrew Goode, board president of the Penobscot River Restoration Project, the coalition buying the dams.
 ''We're about restoring the fish, but we're also trying to get the communities to turn their attention to the river,'' said Mr. Goode, who is also vice president for American programs at the Atlantic Salmon Federation, a conservation group. ''We're trying to raise so much money for this project. It's nice for politicians to see public interest in the river.''
 More than 200 fishing licenses have been sold. At the Eddington salmon pool, where a path to the water was freshly graveled to ease the strains on arthritic knees and replacement hips, many anglers arrived in predawn blackness.
 Some sailed small boats called peapods, while those on the shore followed the age-old salmon-fishing formula: placing their poles in a wooden rack, waiting their turn on a tarp-shrouded bench and performing a kind of angler's ballet, one after another.
 ''Take a cast, take a step and work your way up river,'' said Mr. Ruhlin, 70, of the salmon club. ''We're here because we love the sport, we love the river, and we're taking turns.''
 There was sedate enthusiasm when David Horn, 65, a salmon veteran who has snagged them as far away as Russia, hooked one from his drift boat but lost it after 15 seconds. Mr. Claus saw one roll out of the water, but nowhere near his hot orange harr wing wet fly. 
 Mr. Mallett watched at first, his wife, Gloria, explaining that nowadays ''he does most of his fishing from the couch.''
 And Joel Bader, 45, who heads the bass-fishing club in Bangor, was hoping the salmon would start biting, planning to yank his 10-year-old son out of school if they did. 
 ''I was last here when fishing ended, and I'm here today,'' Mr. Bader said. ''It's amazing, really part of history. It's what every fisherman strives to achieve -- catching Atlantic salmon. It's what I want to achieve, especially on the Penobscot River.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Benton, in a boat, and Hubert Oliver fish for salmon below the Veazie Dam. The fish are making a comeback in the Penobscot River.
 For the first time since 1999, Maine salmon fishermen wait to try their luck in the Eddington Pool below the Veazie Dam on the Penobscot River. (Photographs by Herb Swanson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RIVERS (77%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Salmon; Fishing, Sport

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (57%) Pam Belluck

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Maine; Penobscot River (Maine)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



584 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: If Not G.M., Says Ghosn, Maybe Ford

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Detroit, and James Kanter from Paris.

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Carlos Ghosn, who runs the automakers Renault of France and Nissan of Japan, said Wednesday that he would still be interested in adding a North American partner if discussions with General Motors failed to bring about an alliance -- raising the prospect of eventual talks with the Ford Motor Company.
 Mr. Ghosn's remarks came hours after he met with G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, at Renault's headquarters in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt.
It was the first time the two executives had met since their companies formally began 90 days of negotiations in July toward what would be -- if it happened -- a sweeping, complicated arrangement. 
 After the meeting, the automakers issued statements saying they would run out the clock on their talks, and not conclude them before their self-imposed deadline of Oct. 14.
 ''Our companies continue to explore the potential opportunities of an industrial alliance,'' both statements said.
 But Mr. Ghosn, who opened talks with Mr. Wagoner at the urging of G.M.'s biggest shareholder, Kirk Kerkorian, made clear he was already thinking ahead. 
 Speaking after his meeting with Mr. Wagoner to an automotive conference on the eve of the Paris Motor Show, Mr. Ghosn said that adding a North American partner ''makes sense'' for the Renault-Nissan alliance.
 Asked whether he would continue to seek a North American partner if the G.M. talks do not bear fruit, he responded, ''You're totally right.''
 Mr. Ghosn continued: ''The expansion of the alliance to a North American partner makes sense. We are trying to be as straightforward as possible. The time frame is limited. If it's yes, we will proceed. If it's no, we will see.''
 Beyond G.M., the only other independent North American candidate for Mr. Ghosn would be Ford, which is facing a financial crisis.
 Its chairman, William Clay Ford Jr., called Mr. Ghosn soon after hearing about the G.M. talks this summer and suggested that his company speak with Renault and Nissan if the G.M. deal did not take place. 
 But Mr. Ford, who has said he speaks to Mr. Ghosn frequently, has also said the company's first priority is its own restructuring. A Ford spokesman, Tom Hoyt, said Wednesday: ''We're focused on fixing our business. We're just not going to comment on any speculation.'' 
 At a dinner with American journalists Wednesday, Mr. Ghosn tried to play down the idea that he was eager to expand his Eurasian alliance. 
 Asked whether Renault and Nissan would have a new partner by this time next year, Mr. Ghosn replied, ''I don't think you can say yes or no. I don't think it is a situation where we will be taking initiatives.''
 But, he added, ''If you have an opportunity, you look at it.'' Mr. Ghosn insisted the final 17 days of talks with G.M. would be constructive, no matter the outcome.
 ''What's left to do is to complete the task of evaluating synergies and making the simple decision, 'Is it worth it or not?' '' Mr. Ghosn said Wednesday night. 
 To G.M., that calculation involves more than evaluating synergies, however. G.M. may demand that Renault and Nissan put up several billion dollars as an ''equalizing contribution'' because it believes it brings more value to the deal than the other two companies, the company said Wednesday. 
 Based on the discussions thus far, G.M. is concerned that ''some of the benefits of the synergies would fall disproportionately'' between the two sides, said a G.M. spokesman, Brian Akre.
 ''There's been some discussion about finding some sort of way to bring those benefits more in balance among the two parties,'' he added. 
 An upfront payment ''obviously would be one option'' Mr. Akre said, although he declined to say whether G.M. had requested one.
 Nissan executives were stunned by the possible demand, first reported Wednesday by The Wall Street Journal. ''It woke us up,'' said Dominique Thormann, an executive vice president at Nissan North America and one of Mr. Ghosn's closest associates.
 Mr. Ghosn called the idea ''nonsense'' and said it would be ''against the spirit of the alliance.''
 In effect, Mr. Ghosn said, G.M. would be disproportionately sharing in the benefit of an alliance, which Renault and Nissan estimate could result in savings of as much as $10 billion. 
 Mr. Akre declined to comment on Mr. Ghosn's characterization.
 Calls seeking comment from representatives of Mr. Kerkorian, G.M.'s biggest shareholder, were not returned.
 Renault and Nissan officials defended the value of what they brought to the negotiating table by noting the success of their alliance, which began in 1999 when Renault paid $5.6 billion for a controlling interest in Nissan, then saddled by debt. That stake is now worth four times as much.
 Legal experts said companies involved in serious talks generally go to great lengths to keep issues private, said Roger Aguinaldo, a New York-based mergers and acquisitions consultant who is publisher of The M&A Advisor, a trade journal.
 ''You don't have specifics of the negotiations appear in the press unless you're trying to wiggle out of the deal,'' Mr. Aguinaldo said. 
 ''It does seem almost designed to be an impediment to the deal,'' added John Paul MacDuffie, a professor of management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
 Still, Mr. Ghosn said he was not insulted by the request, saying that it was normal for companies to float ideas during negotiations. During the Renault-Nissan discussions, for example, ''a lot of crazy stuff came to the table,'' Mr. Ghosn said.
 He added: ''We have enough experience to consider it with a lot of Zen.''
 But he addressed critics who have wondered why his automakers were seeking a North American partner when Renault itself was in the midst of a turnaround, its second in the last decade, and who pointed out that Nissan's performance had faltered since peaking two years ago.
 ''People still are worried that Nissan is not in good shape,'' he said, acknowledging that Nissan's operating profit margins have dropped to 8 percent, from 11 percent.
 But in an apparent jab at G.M., he added: ''People would love to have 8 percent.'' G.M. continues to lose money in North America, although at a far slower rate than last year.
 ''Some would say this is not the right moment,'' Mr. Ghosn said. But he added that as chief executive of the two companies, ''I cannot ignore an opportunity when it comes. Then you sell it to your board and get it approved by shareholders.''
 Earlier this week, Patrick Pelata, Renault product development chief, argued that the three-way alliance would help the auto companies fend off Toyota, which may soon overtake G.M. to become the world's biggest carmaker. Toyota's top European official said Wednesday that he thought the combination made sense.
 ''Healthy competition is always welcome, so certainly if they think they can become more competitive by doing this they should do it,'' said Tadashi Arashima, chief executive of Toyota Motor Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) 

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (96%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Renault Sa; Nissan Motor Co; General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (96%); RNO (BIT) (96%); FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 7201 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (96%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (92%); RICK WAGONER (90%); KIRK KERKORIAN (56%) Carlos Ghosn; Rick Wagoner; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (58%) France 00071000; Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006



585 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Growth Pace Is Revised Downward For Quarter 

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
The pace of economic growth softened more sharply than expected in the second quarter and corporate profits rose feebly, according to a Commerce Department report on Thursday that pointed to a significant easing in expansion. 
 Gross domestic product, which measures total economic activity within United States borders, advanced at a revised 2.6 percent annual rate, down from the 2.9 percent estimated a month ago and less than half the first quarter's 5.6 percent rate.
Prices continued to bubble higher.
 An inflation gauge favored by the Federal Reserve -- a measure of personal consumption spending that excludes food and energy -- rose at a revised 2.7 percent rate instead of the 2.8 percent reported a month ago. But that was still well above the first quarter's 2.1 percent and was the highest since the 2.8 percent rate posted in the first quarter of 2001.
 A separate report from the Labor Department showed new claims for unemployment pay dipped 6,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 316,000, a level considered by economists to show a healthy hiring environment. The four-week moving average of new claims, which irons out volatile weekly data to provide a better picture of underlying labor market trends, nudged down 500 last week, to 315,500.
 A cooling of housing sales and prices is affecting the overall economy, and it showed clearly in the G.D.P. statistics. Investment in residential structures tumbled at the sharpest rate in more than a decade -- down a revised 11.1 percent instead of 9.8 percent as reported a month ago.
 It was the third straight quarter in which spending on new housing declined, and department officials said the decrease was the biggest quarterly drop since the 12.2 percent recorded in the second quarter of 1995.
 Corporate profits grew by a revised 0.3 percent in the second quarter, rather than the 2.1 percent that the Commerce Department estimated a month ago. That was a steep plunge from a 14.8 percent rate of profit growth in the first three months of this year.

Study on Research Spending
 WASHINGTON, Sept. 28 (Reuters) -- Research and development has contributed substantially to economic growth when measured as a business investment rather than as an expense, according to a government study released Thursday.
 The Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Commerce Department, in a preliminary study, said that if research and development were measured this way, business investment would have been 11 percent, or $178 billion, higher in 2002 in the government's measure of growth in gross domestic product.
 This new way of accounting for research and development, officials said, could better take into account some economic and productivity growth that is now unexplained.
 While this new form of measure may more accurately explain economic growth, it is preliminary and is not likely to be incorporated in the government's G.D.P. measure for several years, officials said.
 In addition to contributing to G.D.P. growth, the new measure would contribute to an increased national savings rate. For example, the 2002 national savings rate would be 16 percent instead of 14 percent, according to the study.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph tracks 4-week moving average since April.(Source by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); STATISTICS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); CABLE TELEVISION (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones; United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Hiring and Promotion; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Mobile Espn; Espn (Cable TV Network); Cingular Wireless; Verizon Wireless; Sprint Nextel; T-Mobile (Co); Commerce Department; Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006



586 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INSIDER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Betting on the Weather and Taking an Ice-Cold Bath 

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
There's a lot of talk about lessons learned from the evaporation of $6 billion of capital at Amaranth Advisors in Greenwich, Conn.
 The most obvious one is: Don't put all your eggs in one basket. Amaranth was a multistrategy fund that was acting like an energy and commodities fund. When it bet big on natural gas and lost, it was apparent that it was neither multistrategy nor particularly well hedged.
The slightly more complex lesson is that risk management can look good, sound good and still be dangerously weak. In a call with investors last week, Nicholas Maounis, the founder of Amaranth, told his investors that Amaranth's risk management gurus thought it was ''highly remote'' that Amaranth would lose its shirt on the natural gas bet. He defended the ''full-time, well-credentialed and experienced risk professionals'' who were modeling and monitoring the energy portfolio's risks. 
 ''Sometimes, even the highly improbable happens,'' he said. ''That is what happened in September.''
 Improbable, perhaps. But also highly anticipated, making the scope of some of the bets and the fund's lack of controls around it confounding. 
 Amaranth's energy desk, run by a young, brash trader named Brian Hunter, bet on a number of different things, including certain ''spread trades'' in the natural gas market. 
 Among the spread trades Amaranth placed was a bullish one on the difference between the March and April futures price of natural gas for both 2007 and 2008. 
 The bet was that the spread between the two months would widen. The rationale was reasonable: Amaranth anticipated the price of the March contract would rise (March is the last month of winter and higher demand would result in higher prices) and April prices would fall, as summer approached and more supply led to lower prices. 
 The spread between the March and April futures contracts for 2007 was $2.49 during the last week of August. By Sept. 15, it fell to $1.15, more recently tumbling to 58 cents. Contracts for March-April bets in 2008 and 2009 -- contracts that tend to be less volatile -- also widened, wreaking havoc on the fund's portfolio. 
 The reasoning was straightforward: inventories of natural gas were strong, sending futures prices down and souring Amaranth's bet. 
 Such precipitous drops are not without precedent. Anyone making a similar bet for the 2006 spread -- betting that the March 2006-April 2006 spread would widen -- witnessed a far more devastating fall earlier this year. On Dec. 8, 2005, the spread was $3.48. But when the market realized that demand was low -- driven lower in part because of the high prices that resulted from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita -- and the winter was expected to be quite mild, the spread collapsed. By January 5, 2006, it was 30 cents, a 91 percent drop. 
 So wild price movements do not seem to be a rare event. Certainly prices for the 2007 spread, among the bets Amaranth made, had been on a tear in the not too distant past. From the last week of July to the last week in September 2005, for example, the price rose 118 percent. Of course if a trade can spike, is it so shocking that it can also take a nose dive?
 ''As a one-day move it was very surprising,'' said Hilary F. Till, a principal at Premia Capital. ''But that the spreads would come in is not an unusual event. You could look at where the spreads traded pre-2004 and see that they are quite wide compared to historical levels.''
 Philip K. Verleger, an energy expert based in Apsen, Colo., said he believed that Amaranth bet on weather: extreme weather events would cause shortages of natural gas to support the unusually wide spread. ''Certainly the spread's historical performance did not justify the trade,'' he wrote in a newsletter. ''The only possible explanation is Amaranth expected hurricanes to disrupt natural gas production and cause a temporary aberration in the price spread.'' 
 Other energy analysts also anticipated the market's moves. 
 ''Given the bearish conditions, there was a more than 50 percent likelihood this would happen,'' said Kent Bayazitoglu, head quantitative analyst with Gelber & Associates, an energy consulting firm. ''The question was when.''
 Knowing that even meteorologists can get the weather wrong, what would motivate a young trader in Canada and his bosses to be certain enough to make bets so big that adverse moves -- even improbable ones -- would bring a fund to its knees? 
 Well, greed, apparently -- that, combined with inadequate risk controls. Reading between the well-lawyered lines from Mr. Maounis's conference call with investors offers one clue. Mr. Maounis said the fund viewed the probability of the market's moving the way it did as ''highly remote.'' 
 ''In addition, the trading desk expressed confidence that we would be able to achieve our position-reduction goals economically and expeditiously.'' In other words, the desk taking the risks said the risks were not too risky. 
 Trading in illiquid and volatile markets is an excellent way to make money. But it involves quixotic risks. ''You can't model God,'' said one hedge fund manager puzzled by the size of Amaranth's bet. 
 And if you do, you better not bet the house on it.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The Insider column in Business Day on Friday, about lessons learned from the loss of $6 billion at the Amaranth Advisors hedge fund, misstated the movement of a spread between two natural-gas futures contracts that hurt trades made by Amaranth. The spread narrowed; it did not widen.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by James Best)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (85%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (76%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (75%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%) Gas (Fuel); Hedge Funds ; Weather 

ORGANIZATION: Amaranth Advisors

PERSON: Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006



587 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: For a Moment, the Dow Was Above Its Record Close

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average reached a milestone yesterday in Wall Street's nearly seven-year recovery from corporate upheaval, economic recession and terrorism, briefly trading above its record close of 11,722.98 set on Jan. 14, 2000.
 The Dow index of 30 blue-chip stocks surpassed its record, rising to a high of 11,728.46 in early morning trading. Stocks closed only modestly higher amid a dearth of news that could motivate investors; still, it was the market's fourth straight advance. 
''These numbers sometimes tend to act as magnets, and the market is sometimes pulled up toward it,'' said Russ Koesterich, senior portfolio manager at Barclays Global Investments in San Francisco.
 The Dow rose 29.21 points, or 0.25 percent, to 11,718.45. It has yet to reach its record trading high of 11,750.28, also set Jan. 14, 2000.
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and Nasdaq composite index are far off their record highs, although their peaks were reached around the same time as the Dow's.
 The S.& P., which gained 2.56 points, or 0.19 percent, to close at 1,339.15, is still about 188 points below its closing high of 1,527.46, but is at its highest in five and a half years. The Nasdaq, which rose 6.63 points, or 0.29 percent, to 2,270.02, is still far below its record of 5,048.62.
 The Dow, whose large-cap stocks range from the aluminum producer Alcoa to the discount retailer Wal-Mart Stores, was the first big index to recover because it did not rise as much in value as the S.& P. 500 or the Nasdaq in 2000.
 Wall Street made its way back slowly from its 2002 lows, with investors behaving more cautiously and limiting their exposure to risk as they slowly regained faith in stocks. What has also helped is more than four years of sturdy corporate profit growth despite the threat that energy prices and interest rates would hurt consumer spending and corporate profits.
 More recently, the Federal Reserve's decision to pause after more than two years of interest rate increases and evidence that the economy is moderating and not heading for a hard landing have given investors the impetus to push the Dow up. 
 Yesterday, the economic news was mixed and did not appear to have much impact on trading. The Commerce Department revised its gross domestic product number for spring to 2.6 percent from 2.9 percent.
 Meanwhile, the Labor Department reported that the number of new people signing up for unemployment benefits dropped last week. The department said new applications filed for unemployment insurance declined by a seasonally adjusted 6,000, to 316,000, for the workweek ended Sept. 23. The latest showing on claims was close to economists' expectations that claims would total around 315,000 last week.
 Bond prices fell, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note at 4.61 percent, up from 4.60 percent. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, fell 4/32, to 102 2/32. The dollar rose against other major currencies. Gold prices also rose.
 Crude oil futures fell. A barrel of light crude settled at $62.76, down 20 cents.
 In corporate news, General Motors rose 78 cents, to $33.06, after the dissident shareholder Kirk Kerkorian told G.M. that he was interested in buying up to 12 million more shares of the company as he pressed it to enter a three-way alliance with Renault and Nissan.
 Hewlett-Packard, which is drawing scrutiny from Congress over a corporate spying investigation, rose 58 cents, to $35.97, after the company announced the resignation of its general counsel, Ann O. Baskins.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); RETAILERS (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); PUBLIC DEBT (65%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (62%); INTEREST RATES (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTMENTS (56%); ALCOA INC (54%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (54%); AA (NYSE) (54%); WMT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006



588 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Don't Force Democracy in Burma

BYLINE: By Thant Myint-U. 
Thant Myint-U is the author of the forthcoming ''The River of Lost Footsteps: Histories of Burma.''

 BODY:
THIS afternoon, the United Nations Security Council will hold its first-ever meeting on Myanmar, also known as Burma. The American ambassador to the United Nations, John Bolton, has pushed hard for this meeting, arguing over Chinese and Russian objections that the situation in Myanmar constitutes a threat to international peace and security and warrants urgent attention. 
 Recent reports warn of severe human rights abuses, ethnic violence and a looming humanitarian emergency. An intransigent military regime seems unwilling to begin even the first steps toward a democratic transition, and calls from advocates for tougher sanctions and censure of all kinds have become more strident. 
But will any of this work? What outside pressure can bring about democratic change? And why, after nearly two decades of boycotts, aid cutoffs, trade bans and diplomatic condemnation, are Myanmar's generals apparently more in charge than ever before? Are we really looking at Myanmar -- a country of some 55 million people -- in the right way? 
 Though interest and concern over Myanmar has mushroomed in recent years, few really understand its history. There is, for example, the myth that Burma emerged, at its independence from Britain in 1948, a rich and promising country only to descend into poverty and violence under the present military regime. 
 In fact, Burma in 1948 was already at war with itself, a bloody civil war that became one of the longest-running armed conflicts in the world. For more than four decades the Burmese Army battled communist insurgents as well as an array of ethnic rebels and drug warlord militias. 
 In the course of this civil war, the army learned from the United States, Britain, Australia, Israel and other countries, becoming ever more professional, growing in size and eventually, in 1962, overthrowing the civilian government, in part to prosecute the war without interference from politicians and party politics. Once numbering only 2,000, the Burmese Army is today, at more than 400,000 soldiers, among the biggest and most experienced in the world.
 For many on the outside, the story of Myanmar's last 20 years has been one of a pro-democracy movement held down by repression. But the generals see it as a civil war finally coming to an end with the collapse of the communist insurgency in 1989 and the cease-fire agreements, in the late 1980's and early 1990's, between the army and 17 of its remaining battlefield opponents. For the generals, the near conclusion of the war is the very beginning of a long state-building exercise (on their terms), rather than a time to hand over power to the politicians they distrust. 
 We incorrectly see Myanmar as a ''democracy transition'' problem, sort of a Velvet Revolution gone wrong. But it actually represents a post-conflict challenge, more like Afghanistan or the war-torn societies of sub-Saharan Africa -- and therefore incredibly complex.
 And what of sanctions? In 1962, the military's chief, Gen. Ne Win, and his Revolutionary Council sealed off the country, banning almost all external trade and investment, kicking out foreign aid programs, nationalizing businesses, expelling ethnic Indian communities and shutting the door to all tourism. The result was disaster for an already impoverished economy. 
 And then, in the early 1990's, a new generation of army officers, while shunning meaningful democratic change, wanted an end to the country's international isolation and allowed market-oriented economic reforms, hoping to attract tourism and foreign investment for the first time in decades. 
 But this was a hesitant move. Some believed the market-oriented reforms were going too far, that the country was opening up too fast. In this context, Western sanctions and boycotts have strengthened the hand of those who oppose even these tentative measures, rather than acting as pressure for more basic political change. 
 Myanmar is also a country emerging only cautiously from more than 30 years of self-imposed isolation, with a tough military machine and a society brutalized from generations of war. The cease-fires could still unravel, state structures (other than the armed forces) are nearly nonexistent and millions of poor people, long denied access to foreign aid, might soon face more dire conditions. Only the army will do well with more international isolation. 
 This is all not to say that Myanmar shouldn't be a democracy. Far from it. Only liberal democracy can bring long-term stability to a country as ethnically and culturally diverse as Myanmar. The question is how to go from here to there, leave behind the rhetoric and look for practical measures based on a better understanding of the country's past. As the Security Council takes up Myanmar for the very first time, it would be good to be mindful of Burmese history.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jordin Isip)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); POLITICS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); BOYCOTTS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%) United Nations; Securit00181400l (Un)

PERSON: Thant Myint-U

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Myanmar; Myanmar

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006



589 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Trouble in Queens As Lentil Prices Rise

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
There is little that disrupts the rhythm of Little India in Jackson Heights, Queens.
 Fabrics flutter outside sari shops along 74th Street, and gold glitters in jewelry store windows. Record stores pump Punjabi hip-hop, and Hindi is spoken on the streets.
But a tiny seed with a suddenly high price has created a culinary crisis in the neighborhood. The Indian government's recent ban on the export of lentils, to stabilize rising prices there, has led to shortages in New York and a steep increase -- depending on the type, sometimes double, or even triple -- in the price of lentils, which are a basic part of the Indian diet, a bulwark of its menus and a fixture in its kitchens.
 With the Hindu holiday season approaching, including Diwali, the festival of lights, some panicky shoppers in Queens, fearing lentils might go out of stock, have stockpiled them, leading some distributors and store owners to ration them. Homemakers are fretting, cooks are cursing, and restaurant owners are rethinking menus. The uproar in Little India is a scene befitting the Bollywood movies that run at the local Palace Theater. 
 Indian lentils are still available -- certain exporters have found a way around the ban and some sellers stockpiled beans before it began -- but prices have jumped. Some of the local Indian restaurants are among the best in the city, and many are turning to lentils from other places, including Australia, Pakistan and some South American and African countries.
 But increased demand has driven up those prices, too, and there are complaints from discerning customers who bemoan inferior quality. Other restaurants have stuck to the Indian lentils and simply raised prices for dishes that include them. Some, fearing a loss of customers, have opted to absorb the cost themselves.
 Yellow lentils, especially in southern Indian cuisine, are a staple, and often the main source of protein for the many Indian immigrants who are vegetarians.
 Many Indians typically eat lentils several times a day, using them for several components of a meal. Many entrees are served with a side dish called dal: lentils simmered with onion, garlic, ginger, turmeric, cumin, coriander and lemon.
 India, the world's largest exporter of lentils, imposed the restrictions in late June because an especially bad crop resulting from extreme drought stoked fears of a shortage and sent domestic prices climbing.
 ''Some people might say, 'Big deal, it's just a bean,' but to Indians, the lentil is our bread,'' said G. L. Soni, who owns House of Spices, an Indian food distributor in Corona, Queens. ''Many Indians are vegetarians, so it is their bread and milk and cheese and meat combined.''
 ''Some of my customers are getting panicky and wanted to stock up,'' Mr. Soni continued. ''They were demanding so many lentils that I had to start rationing. I said, 'If I give you 20 barrels, I won't have enough for anyone else.' ''
 The price of yellow split peas, or toordall, which come under the lentil umbrella, has jumped to 85 cents per pound from 34 cents, and a pound of white lentils, or uradall, has risen to $1 from 65 cents, Mr. Soni said.
 He says he buys from some exporters in India who have found a way around the ban, and sells 25 shipping containers a month, each containing 22 tons of lentils, to restaurants and stores.
 Lotika Joshi sat at Dimple, her small vegetarian restaurant on 73rd Street in Jackson Heights, and lamented the lentil situation, explaining that she had decided not to pass the higher prices on to her customers. 
 ''It is affecting everyone around here because lentils are a very big part of the Indian meal,'' she said, ''I cannot run this place without Indian lentils. You have to cook lentils until they are soft and fluffy. With poorer lentils, some of them never soften. They stay hard.''
 Next door at the Dosa Diner, the manager, Rajesh Gopinath, said he, too, paid more to get Indian lentils
 ''Look at my menu: 80 percent of it is made from lentils,'' he said. He pointed out the mulligatawny lentil soup and the dosa pancakes made from rice and lentils. Lentils help make the uthappam, large round pancakes eaten with different toppings, the way pizza is. And there are various types of lentil patties like medhu vada and iddly cakes.
 Manjit Singh, manager of the Jackson Diner in Jackson Heights, said he was continuing to buy Indian lentils even though most of his customers probably would not be able to distinguish them from lentils produced elsewhere.
 Nirmal D'Costa, owner of the Delhi Palace on 74th Street, said he was forced to raise the prices on some of his lentil dishes.
 Last week, shoppers browsed the extensive lentil inventory of large South Asian markets like Subzi Mandi and Patel Brothers, and commiserated over the prices.
 ''Some bags that used to cost $4 now cost $11, and people are still buying them,'' said Rokeya Ahmed, a Bengali woman from Woodside who leaned against a pile of 40-pound sacks of lentils, the oil saturating the burlap. She said the lentil woes were the talk of the local Indian community and undoubtedly of the millions of Indian expatriates in the United States.
 But the shortage of lentils in Queens did not pose the danger it did in poor areas of India. ''In India, people would be starving, with these prices,'' Ms. Ahmed said. ''Thankfully, we are a rich country here.''
 Umesh Mody, owner of Maya Overseas Food, a distributor in Maspeth, Queens, said he sold 1,200 tons of lentils a year and had been buying more from Australia, Canada, Mexico, Turkey and Thailand.
 ''When people heard the ban was coming, they got scared and started hoarding it,'' he said. ''Instead of buying just 2 pounds, they were buying 15 pounds each. We were depleted.''
 Mr. Gopinath said suppliers were engaging in price manipulation by withholding lentils from the market to keep the prices high.
 ''The middleman is getting rich,'' he said. ''They knew the ban was coming and they stocked up on lentils. Now they're selling for a high price. They will never let it go back down. It is like gasoline. Once they see people will pay that much, why would they ever drop the price again?''
 Mr. Mody agreed, but said he and other distributors were also paying more. ''It's like the price of gas,'' he said. ''Whatever it goes up to, you have to pay it. What choice do you have?'' 
 Mr. Soni, standing in his warehouse nestled among the hundreds of auto shops and junkyards just east of Shea Stadium, agreed.
 ''We not making money off this,'' he said. ''We're in the same soup everyone else is.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, G. L. Soni, owner of House of Spices in Corona, Queens, with his inventory of lentils. At left, part of a display at Maya Overseas Foods in Maspeth. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
(Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 There seems to be no shortage of lentils and beans at the Patel Brothers grocery in Jackson Heights, Queens. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B5)Chart: ''Culinary Economics''The price of lentils has climbed since India banned their export.Price per poundToordallBefore ban -- $ .35After ban -- $ .90 - $1MungdallBefore ban -- $ .50After ban -- $ .95 - $1UradallBefore ban -- $ .60After ban -- $ .95 - $1(Source by House of Spices)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); SPICE FARMING (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (89%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); DRY PEA & BEAN FARMING (89%); DIWALI (78%); MUSIC STORES (78%); CHEESE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); EXPORT CONTROLS (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); RELIGION (74%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (69%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (68%); FILM (66%); IMMIGRATION (62%) Beans; Lentils; Indian-Americans; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Shortages; Hinduism; Restaurants ; Beans; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: Corey Kilgannon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFRICA (78%) Jackson Heights (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006



590 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: An Apology From Hevesi Over a Driver For His Wife

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: LAKE GEORGE, N.Y., Sept. 28 

 BODY:
State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi said on Thursday that he was ''abjectly apologetic'' for failing to reimburse the state after using a public employee as his wife's chauffeur for three years.
 Mr. Hevesi, a Democrat running for re-election, has come under increasing criticism for having the state worker drive his wife around, and this week he wrote the state a check of more than $82,000 to reimburse the costs.
Mr. Hevesi spoke at the annual fall meeting of the New York State Association of Counties in his first major appearance since the issue became public last week, though he has spoken previously to newspaper editorial boards. He said security concerns, his extensive travel and his wife's ill health had led him to use a public employee as a chauffeur and security guard for her. But he did not excuse his previous failure to reimburse the state for the chauffeur's services. 
 ''It was irresponsible for me, it's irresponsible for anybody, but for the comptroller of the State of New York, I think it was really inappropriate,'' he told a crowd of county executives and officials. 
 Last week, Mr. Hevesi's opponent, J. Christopher Callaghan, became aware of the situation and informed reporters. Mr. Hevesi said on Thursday that he had intended all along to repay the state.
 The state Ethics Commission is reviewing the matter. 
 ''When the issue burst here in the last week or so, I said 'Oh, God, I really messed up here,' '' Mr. Hevesi said in his speech. ''I'm going to do everything I can to make up for this.''
 Republicans pounced. John Faso, the Republican candidate for governor, and Mr. Callaghan both appeared in Lake George on Thursday and called for Mr. Hevesi's resignation. 
 ''I think we've established that the man can't be trusted,'' said Mr. Callaghan, who added that he found it hard to believe that Mr. Hevesi had intended to repay the state. 
 Mr. Faso called Mr. Hevesi's apology ''$82,000 too late,'' adding, ''He stole the money and only paid it back when he was discovered.'' 
 A week ago, it would have been unthinkable that an appearance by Mr. Hevesi would overshadow one by Eliot Spitzer, the Democratic nominee for governor, who also appeared here. 
 But this has been a turbulent week in state politics. The four candidates were barraged with questions about dueling political scandals involving the campaigns of Mr. Hevesi and Jeanine F. Pirro, the Republican candidate for attorney general. She revealed on Wednesday that she is facing a federal inquiry, deflecting attention from Mr. Hevesi's troubles. 
 Mr. Faso did not exactly rush to defend Ms. Pirro. The two top Republican candidates for statewide office have had tense relations since Ms. Pirro likened herself to Mr. Spitzer in a commercial this year. On Thursday, Mr. Faso called this week's problems facing Ms. Pirro ''very troubling.''
 Mr. Spitzer called Mr. Hevesi, who has acted as one of his top economic advisers, ''an individual who has spent many years in public service, and as I said the other night made an egregious mistake, and has now apologized.''
 Mr. Faso said, ''There's one set of rules for Eliot Spitzer and his friends and another set of rules for everyone else.'' 
 Mr. Faso and Mr. Spitzer continued to spar over the millions of dollars Mr. Spitzer's father, Bernard, a wealthy real estate developer, lent his son to finance his campaigns for attorney general in the 1990's. Mr. Faso asked Mr. Spitzer about the issue in their debate this week, but Mr. Spitzer responded by chiding Mr. Faso for even asking about it. 
 In 1998, Mr. Spitzer did admit receiving the loans after previously denying the extent of his family's involvement in financing his campaigns.
 Mr. Faso said on Thursday that Mr. Spitzer ''took $9 million from his family, he hid it, he lied about it, and then he finally had to fess up to it.''
 Told of Mr. Faso's comment, Mr. Spitzer bristled. ''If that's his best argument for being governor, perhaps it explains why his whole ticket is where it is,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); COUNTIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ETHICS (75%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); SCANDALS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%) Ethics; Election Issues; Politics and Government ; Governors (US); Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (57%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%) Danny Hakim; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi; John J (Assemblyman) Faso; J Christopher Callaghan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006



591 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Faster Pace By China On Rise In Currency

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Keith Bradsher reported from Hong Kong and Steven R. Weisman from Washington.

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
It's been just days since Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. returned from China, but already the Chinese government has sharply stepped up the appreciation of its currency, allowing it to push through an important level against the dollar on Thursday for the first time.
 The recent climb -- less than a full percentage point since the beginning of September -- is still modest and perhaps will not last. But it is producing cautious hope in the Bush administration that the Chinese government may be lifting its opposition to a revaluation that could ease China's huge trade surplus with the United States.
And partly in response to the currency lift in China, two influential senators in Washington announced Thursday that they were pulling back legislation that would punish China with tariffs if it did not allow the value of its currency to rise, a step that would make exports to the United States more expensive and imports from America more competitive. 
 Though modest, the rise this month in the value of China's currency, the yuan, has been at a rate more than four times the currency's appreciation for most of the past year. 
 On Thursday, China's government let the yuan push through 7.9 to the dollar, the latest in a series of daily highs that for the last two weeks has proceeded at an annualized rate of 17 percent.
 The White House and Mr. Paulson had vigorously opposed the measure by Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat, and Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican, arguing that putting pressure on the Chinese would backfire. The administration also argued that imposing tariffs as the bill contemplated would violate international rules. Mr. Paulson called for the bill to be pulled back after he returned from China last Friday.
 Mr. Schumer said Thursday that he and Mr. Graham would work with other senators to write a bill for submission next year that would press the Chinese but not do anything that might contravene rules of the World Trade Organization.
 ''There's a view in both the administration and in Congress that our legislation and the Paulson visit to China has given an impetus for the Chinese to move,'' he said in an interview. ''Our bill was an admittedly blunt instrument. We have decided that it has run its course and that it is time to move to another approach that complies with the W.T.O.'' Analysts disagreed on Thursday whether the Chinese action was significant, a harbinger of a trend or a feint that could be reversed easily.
 The strengthening of the currency in September, at an annualized rate of 10 percent, compares with an annual appreciation of less than 2.5 percent for most of the year after China's small revaluation in July 2005.
 ''The reality is they're moving at a faster pace,'' said Jonathan Anderson, the chief Asia economist at UBS. Others said the pace was likely to be temporary. 
 ''The Chinese are doing this as a gesture of good will,'' said Tao Dong, the chief Asia economist at Credit Suisse, while adding that he expected the pace of appreciation to settle down soon to about 5 percent a year. 
 Beijing's leaders have long bridled at foreign criticism, prompting some China watchers to suggest that quiet diplomacy, rather than confrontation, may be more productive in bringing about an appreciation of the yuan. 
 Mr. Paulson accumulated decades of experience in dealing with China while at Goldman Sachs, where he served as president before resigning last summer to become Treasury chief. He has pursued a much more low-key approach this summer than his predecessors or American lawmakers, preferring to raise the currency issue in private with Chinese leaders.
 Bush administration officials and many analysts cautioned against enthusiasm that the currency appreciation will continue. In the past, the currency has sometimes risen slightly only to fall back again later.
 ''We're not crowing over this,'' said an administration official, asking not to be identified because the administration policy is not to comment on these matters.
 ''If you look back over the last year, there is reason for caution,'' the official added. ''Does this represent a change? Or does it mean that the Chinese are letting us feel good about the Paulson trip and then planning to go back to what they were doing.''
 Nicholas Lardy, a senior China analyst at the International Institute of Economics, said it was too soon to say whether China had embarked on a trend toward revaluation.
 ''Extrapolation on the basis of a trend like this is a dangerous business,'' Mr. Lardy said. ''It could be a good will gesture for Paulson. But if there's little more net change over the next six months, people will say that the Chinese are just taking us in again.''
 Just two weeks ago, before the World Bank and International Monetary Fund annual meetings in Singapore, Chinese officials had repeated their longstanding promises to let the market start playing a greater role in the currency's value, without giving any indication of a timetable.
 This month, Mr. Paulson met with top Chinese leaders and established a ''strategic economic dialogue'' between senior officials in the United States and China to discuss a range of economic issues, including currency. Mr. Paulson said the dialogue would be aimed at enlisting broad support among Chinese leaders to push for economic changes in a variety of areas, including currency policy.
 Mr. Paulson said he was encouraged by his meetings with various officials, including President Hu Jintao, but he cautioned against expecting quick results. Nevertheless, the slight increase in China's currency has prompted speculation that the Chinese wanted to reward him.
 The yuan's rise also comes at a time when the Chinese economy seems to have settled down to sustained but controlled economic growth. That may make Chinese officials more prepared to experiment a little more with the value of the yuan.
 After signs emerged last spring of possible overheating in investment, China's central bank raised interest rates and tightened bank reserve requirements, among other measures. The moves, like a halt to projects that had started without the central government's permission, have helped temper growth. 
 The official New China News Agency reported on Thursday that Xu Yifan, the deputy director of the National Bureau of Statistics, had predicted the Chinese economy would grow about 10 percent this year for the third year in a row.
 Year-over-year growth had jumped to 11.3 percent in the second quarter.
 ''The various measures that were taken have worked, they've taken some of the steam out,'' said Michael R. P. Smith, the president and chief executive of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, which encompasses almost all of the Asian operations of HSBC.
 Overall economic growth continues in China at a pace that any other country would love to match, Mr. Smith said in an interview on Wednesday afternoon, adding that the Chinese economy ''is galloping, but it's in control.''
 The exception is the trade surplus, which is soaring and has set records for four months in a row through August. ''The one big problem sticking out in China like a thumb, like a five-ton thumb, is the trade surplus,'' Mr. Anderson said.
 The People's Bank of China, the country's central bank, said when it revalued the currency by 2.1 percent in July last year that it would start setting the value of the yuan based on a basket of foreign currencies, and would no longer peg it just to the dollar. 
 But in practice, the central bank has allowed the yuan to appreciate at a fairly steady but very gradual pace against the dollar; statistical analyses of changes in the yuan's value have shown almost no correlation to currencies other than the dollar. The yuan rose 0.07 percent in Shanghai trading on Thursday to trade at 7.8965 dollars at 5:30 p.m.
 To prevent the currency from appreciating more rapidly, the central bank has bought dollars and sold yuan on a large scale. It has accumulated the world's largest foreign exchange reserves, which are on track to reach $1 trillion in the coming weeks.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., left, met with China's president, Hu Jintao, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing last Friday. (Pool Photo by Elizabeth Dalziel)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%) 

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (78%); HU JINTAO (73%) Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Lindsey (Sen) Graham; Henry M Jr Paulson; Keith Bradsher; Steven R 00183900 Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006



592 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Street Scene; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Another Turnaround in Pittsburgh

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
When it comes to comebacks, sports fans here would point to the fairy tale Super Bowl win by the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
 But PNC Financial, the big regional bank that has its headquarters downtown, could run a close second.
Only four years ago, the bank's balance sheet was a mess. Its stock price was sagging. A series of bad bookkeeping decisions had federal regulators and investors banging on its doors. 
 Today, PNC is riding high. It has gotten its financial house in order, and the company's stock has been on a tear, up nearly 28 percent over the last 12 months. And thanks to its large stake in BlackRock, the money management firm it sold to Merrill Lynch in February in a $9.8 billion deal, PNC is now flush with cash. 
 When the BlackRock deal closes on Friday, PNC will be at least $1.6 billion richer. The recent windfall comes at a price: all that extra money is almost certain to lower its returns. Already, PNC has begun a major share buyback plan and has hinted at raising its dividend even more. A portion of the money might be used to cushion the recent $200 million before-tax loss from wrong interest rate bets. But the prospect of lower returns leads some Wall Street analysts to say that the bank may be hungry for its own deal soon. James E. Rohr, chairman and chief executive of PNC, said the bank was a ready buyer, but would not rush in. ''We would like to reinvest the capital over some period of time, but we want to do it patiently,'' he said. ''We have to be careful about the acquisitions we do because right now they are pricey.'' 
 Mr. Rohr said a small bank acquisition that would add more PNC branches along the New Jersey-to-Washington corridor was high on his priority list. Bank executives have their eye on some 30 to 35 retail banks in that area -- as well as others in Kentucky, Cincinnati and central Pennsylvania -- and have contacted about half of them to gauge their interest in a possible deal. Most are small regional or community banks in the price range of $500 million to $1 billion. 
 While those areas are not exactly booming, Mr. Rohr says he believes that building on the bank's existing presence can help it flush out costs and fuel growth. The bank also thinks that time may be on its side. Because PNC is more fee-dependent than its peers, pressure from a rise in interest rates and a slowdown in the economy may prompt smaller lenders to cave. 
 ''We want them to decide on their own that we are the right partner,'' said Joseph C. Guyaux, head of retailing banking at PNC. When it comes to making overtures, he called it a ''gentler, Midwestern way.'' 
 It is that same patient but focused approach that characterizes PNC's turnaround. Just two years after Mr. Rohr took over as chief executive in 2000, the bank was under siege. Federal regulators found more $760 million in bad loans that were hidden in three off-balance sheet entities set up by the American International Group. Shares of PNC tumbled as the bank restated its earnings. Investors were not pleased. 
 ''Jim took a lot of heat during that time period,'' said Gerard S. Cassidy, a banking analyst with RBC Capital Markets. ''There were many investors who wanted him replaced.''
 Instead, Mr. Rohr ordered an overhaul of the bank's risk management systems and its senior management team. He streamlined its dozen business units into two as a way of reducing its top-heavy management staff. 
 Over the last year, Mr. Rohr has sought to drive down the bank's high overhead costs to levels more in line with its peers. Last January, PNC asked its employees for suggestions that would reduce expenses. Of the 6,000 ideas, some 2,400 -- from tightening up fee exemptions to reducing postage costs -- will be put into effect by the end of the year. By next June, PNC, which had 25,500 employees, will have eliminated about 3,000 jobs. Mr. Rohr expects the effort to generate more than $300 million in savings and another $100 million in revenue by mid-2007. 
 Now, Mr. Rohr is focused on expanding the PNC franchise. On the institutional side, PNC bought Harris Williams & Company, a boutique investment bank that advises midmarket businesses on mergers and acquisitions, last fall. 
 In retail banking, PNC has been undertaking an aggressive branch expansion. In 2006, PNC will build more than 35 new branches on top of the 103 in New Jersey and the Washington area it added with the purchases of United National Bancorp and Riggs National Bank in the last two years. And after exiting the credit card and home mortgage businesses several years ago, PNC has re-entered both in limited ways. 
 Next week, Mr. Rohr plans to address one of the bank's biggest weaknesses -- a brand awareness problem -- with its first major advertising campaign in years. ''If you look at our prospects, they don't know us as well as we would like,'' he said. 
 Still, it may be difficult for Mr. Rohr to take credit for PNC's best decision. In 1995, PNC's initial stake in BlackRock was worth $240 million. Today it is worth an estimated $5.1 billion before tax, including the recognized gain. Instead of meddling into day-to-day management, Mr. Rohr largely stayed out of the way. 
 ''We don't think of it as a windfall,'' he said. ''We earned that money over time.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: James E. Rohr, chief executive of PNC, has sought to drive down the bank's high overhead costs to levels more in line with its peers. (Photo by Bob Fritz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DIVESTITURES (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SPORTS FANS (73%); COMMUNITY BANKS (72%); DIVIDENDS (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); RETAIL BANKING (72%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ACQUISITIONS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (84%) Pnc Financial Services Group Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: JAMES E ROHR (89%) James E Rohr; Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pittsburgh (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006



593 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: Poll Says Spitzer Is Leading Faso In G.O.P. Areas

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Marina Stefan and Megan C. Thee contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, the Democratic candidate for governor, is making inroads both in Republican strongholds and on traditional Republican issues, with voters seeing him as the most likely to improve the economy, help avert terrorism and hold taxes steady or lower them, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 Five weeks before the election, about 8 in 10 voters said that they had no opinion of Mr. Spitzer's Republican rival, John Faso. Mr. Spitzer, a Democrat, is supported by a majority of those surveyed not only in the Democratic-dominated city, but also in its more heavily Republican suburbs and in upstate areas.
The poll showed that Mr. Faso's central campaign message -- his pledge to cut taxes, and his contention that Mr. Spitzer would raise them -- was either not getting through to voters, or not resonating with them. While 32 percent of those surveyed said that they thought taxes would go up if Mr. Spitzer was elected governor, roughly the same amount, 37 percent, said they thought that taxes would go up if Mr. Faso was elected. 
 Fifty-three percent said that they thought that Mr. Spitzer would keep taxes at their current levels, or lower them, while 40 percent said that Mr. Faso would. 
 In a head-to-head matchup, the poll found that Mr. Spitzer was leading Mr. Faso by more than 3 to 1. If the election were held today, 64 percent of the voters surveyed said that they would vote for Mr. Spitzer, and 18 percent said they would vote for Mr. Faso.
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is seeking re-election, also enjoys strong support across the state. Two-thirds of those surveyed said that they approved of the way Mrs. Clinton, a Democrat, was handling her job as senator -- including 62 percent of the independents surveyed and 40 percent of the Republicans. Few voters expressed an opinion of her Republican opponent, John Spencer, the former mayor of Yonkers.
 During her nearly six years in office, Mrs. Clinton has often been described as moving to the center, or to the right, with her vote to authorize the Iraq war, or the legislation she co-sponsored that would outlaw desecration of the American flag, among other things.
 But the poll found that her time in office had done little to change how New York's voters viewed her politics. The percentage of those surveyed who view Mrs. Clinton as liberal has remained essentially the same, at 53 percent now, compared with 50 percent in 2000. Twenty-six percent of those surveyed in the current poll said they viewed Mrs. Clinton as moderate, and 11 percent said they saw her as conservative.
 Mrs. Clinton has a 2-to-1 lead over Mr. Spencer, the poll found. If the election were held today, 59 percent of the voters polled said they would vote to re-elect Mrs. Clinton, while 27 percent said that they would vote for Mr. Spencer. A large majority said that the possibility of Mrs. Clinton's running for president in 2008 would have no effect on whether they plan to support her 2006 re-election bid.
 Most of the poll was conducted before the news surfaced on Wednesday that federal prosecutors were investigating Jeanine F. Pirro, the Republican candidate for attorney general, to learn whether she had her husband illegally taped to see if he was having an affair. The poll found Ms. Pirro trailing her Democratic opponent, Andrew M. Cuomo, 49 percent to 30 percent. But about 40 percent said they could still change their minds.
 The poll showed that after nearly 12 years of Republican leadership under Gov. George E. Pataki, voters in both parties said they were ready to vote for a Democrat. Thirty-five percent of the Republicans surveyed said they planned to vote for Mr. Spitzer, compared with 45 percent for Mr. Faso.
 ''Spitzer is the one with the track record that makes me think he's the one who could change the way things work,'' Daniel Hurley, 55, a Republican from North Tonawanda, N.Y., said in a follow-up interview. ''As attorney general he has a pretty impressive record of going after people, regardless of who they were, if there was some form of wrongdoing. That's the kind of person I'm looking for to be governor, regardless of party affiliation.''
 The poll shows how much the priorities of voters have changed in New York since 1994, the last time a new governor was elected.
 Back in 1994, more than a quarter of those polled said that crime was the top issue that the governor should concentrate on, followed by taxes and then by unemployment. In the latest poll, a fifth of those surveyed said that taxes were the top issue for the new governor to focus on, followed closely by education (which only 5 percent called a priority back in 1994), and then by unemployment. 
 Attitudes toward the death penalty have shifted significantly as well. In 1994, when voters were asked if people convicted of murder should face the death penalty or life in prison with no chance of parole, 48 percent said that they favored the death penalty, and 35 percent said that they favored life in prison without parole. When the same question was asked this week, 29 percent said that they favored the death penalty, while 50 percent said that they favored life in prison without parole.
 Mr. Faso and Mr. Spitzer both support the death penalty -- which was nullified two years ago when the state's highest court found one of its provisions unconstitutional -- but Mr. Spitzer has suggested that he supports it for a smaller range of crimes. 
 On gay marriage, 37 percent of those surveyed said that gay couples should be allowed to legally marry, 34 percent said that they should be allowed to form civil unions, and 23 percent said that there should be no legal recognition of gay couples' relationships. Mr. Spitzer favors gay marriage; Mr. Faso opposes it.
 Asked how the next governor should fill potential budget gaps, 23 percent of those surveyed said he should raise taxes, 29 percent said he should borrow money, and 37 percent said he should cut programs. 
 As for the Senate race, the poll showed that 78 percent of those surveyed thought that Mrs. Clinton had been very effective or somewhat effective at getting things done for the state, while 20 percent thought she had been not very effective or not at all effective.
 Some Republicans who said they would not vote for her nonetheless said that they approved of the way she had handled her job. ''Hillary surprised me because she had been such a contentious figure,'' Rosemary Osterman, an 84-year-old Republican from Syracuse, said in a follow-up interview after the poll. ''When she went into the Senate she apparently blended in very well and didn't cause too much distraction. Her fellow senators seemed to be very pleased with her.''
 On Iraq, 54 percent of those surveyed said that the United States should have stayed out of Iraq, and 61 percent said that the Senate candidates' positions on Iraq would be one of the top three issues they would consider. 
 A majority of those surveyed said that Mrs. Clinton had the right kind of experience to be a good president. But only 43 per cent of the New York voters surveyed said that Mrs. Clinton should run for president in 2008, while 50 percent said that she should not. 
 Her appeal as a presidential candidate may be related to the voters' expectations of her prospects. Forty-four percent of those who said Mrs. Clinton should run describe her chances against the Republicans as very good, while 45 percent of those who are against a run said that she would have little or no chance of winning.
 And the other presidential prospects who are suddenly plentiful in New York? 
 New Yorkers are evenly divided as to whether formerMayor Rudolph W. Giuliani should run for president, with 45 percent saying that he should, and 48 percent saying he should not. 
 Gov. George E. Pataki, who is opening an office in Iowa, fared much worse: 68 percent of those surveyed said that he should not run. As for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has denied interest in running but managed to keep speculation alive, 73 percent of those surveyed said that he should not run for president.

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News poll of New York State is based on telephone interviews conducted Sept. 24-27 with 904 adults throughout the state. Of those, 734 said they were registered to vote. Interviews were conducted in either English or Spanish.
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges across the state. 
 The exchanges were chosen to ensure that each region of the state was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and the number of telephone lines into the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region of the state, race, Hispanic origin, sex, marital status, age and education.
 In addition, the questions about voting preference if the 2006 elections were being held today were based on ''likely voters.'' Likely voters were identified by registration, intention to vote, interest in the campaign, past voting behavior, and length of residence at address, further weighted so that those who live in New York City make up 30 percent of the entire state, which is the city's typical share of total ballots cast on Election Day.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult residents of New York State. 
 For registered voters, the potential sampling error is four percentage points. For smaller subgroups, the margin of sampling error is larger. 
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. 
 Differences in the wording, order and translation of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.
 Dr. Michael R. Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The Times in its polling analysis. Complete questions and results are available at nytimes.com/polls.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, left, is leading in the polls against former Assemblyman John Faso, a Republican, in the race for governor. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. B6)Chart: ''New York Voters on Hillary Rodham Clinton''Do you approve or disapprove of the way Hillary Rodham Clinton is handling her job as United States senator?ALL VOTERSApprove: 67%Disapprove: 27No opinion: 6REPUBLICAN VOTERSApprove: 40%Disapprove: 54No opinion: 7DEMOCRATIC VOTERSApprove: 92%Disapprove: 4No opinion: 4INDEPENDENT VOTERSApprove: 62%Disapprove: 30No opinion: 8Chart: ''New York Voters on the Governor's Race''Will your taxes go up, down or stay the same ifEliot Spitzer is elected governor?No opinion: 15Stay same: 47Go down: 6Go up: 32John Faso is elected governor?No opinion: 22Stay same: 34Go down: 6Go up: 37Will the economy of New York State get better, worse or stay about the same ifEliot Spitzer is elected governor?No opinion: 12Stay same: 47Worse: 7Better: 34John Faso is elected governor?No opinion: 19Stay same: 58Worse: 15Better: 8Chart: ''New York Voters on Balancing the State Budget''Some people have said New York will not have enough money soon to balance its budget and pay for all of its existing programs. If that happened and you had to choose among the following things, what would you prefer?Raising state taxes: 23%Cutting state programs: 37Borrowing money: 29No opinion: 9Combination: 2Based on statewide telephone interviews conducted September 24-27 with 734 registered voters. Totals may not add to 100 because of rounding.(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); GOVERNORS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); TAX LAW (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%) 

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%) Michael Cooper; Marjorie Connelly; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; John J Faso; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006



594 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Water Needs in India Shape More Lives Than Economy
In New Delhi, the richest city in India, and with the nation's economy marching ahead at an enviable clip, middle-class people are reduced to foraging for water. Their predicament testifies to the government's inability to deliver basic services to its citizens even as India asserts itself as a global power. A1

Cold Greeting for Musharraf 

President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan arrived in Britain facing accusations that his country's intelligence service had indirect ties to Al Qaeda and that his government had committed widespread human rights abuses as an ally of the United States in its effort to curb terrorism. A10

Belgium Faults U.S. Program
Belgian banking consortium Swift breached European privacy rules in aiding a United States antiterrorism program by providing confidential information, Belgium's privacy protection commission concluded. A10

French Politician Leaves Race
Lionel Jospin, the Socialist former prime minister and a fixture in French politics for decades, said that he would abandon his quest to become president of France. A6

Zambian Vote Draws to a Close
Zambia's presidential campaign came to a close as the incumbent, Levy Mwanawasa, tried to fend off a strong challenge by Michael Sata, who pledged to lower taxes. A3

NATIONAL A16-21

Senate Approves Bill On Terrorism Suspects
The Senate approved legislation governing the interrogation and trials of terrorism suspects, establishing far-reaching new rules to deal with combatants in what President Bush has said is a different kind of war. A1

The House voted to give the president the formal power to order wiretaps on Americans without a court order for 90 days. A18

Lobbyist's White House Links
A bipartisan Congressional report documents hundreds of contacts between White House officials and the corrupt lobbyist Jack Abramoff and his partners. A18

Senate Presses for Fence Bill
The Senate agreed to end debate and press ahead with a final vote on the construction of 700 miles of fencing along the border with Mexico to help stem the tide of illegal immigration into the United States. A18

Judge Halts Medicare Action
A federal judge ordered the Bush administration to halt its effort to collect $50 million from 230,000 Medicare beneficiaries who had received erroneous refunds of premiums paid for prescription drug coverage. A16

Hundreds Arrested in Protests
About 300 people were arrested for blocking the street in front of two hotels near Los Angeles International Airport in a choreographed event intended to publicize unionization efforts at 13 airport-area hotels. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

A Power Marriage, For Better and for Worse
Friends of Jeanine F. Pirro, the Republican candidate for New York attorney general under investigation in an eavesdropping case, portray her as an ambitious woman brought low by her husband, Albert. But the Pirros are political and financial partners whose fates are profoundly intertwined. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-11

H.P. Leaders and Congress
Hewlett-Packard's former chairwoman and its current leader faced an admonishing and sometimes incredulous House subcommittee as they tried to explain why they never questioned the legal foundation of an internal spying operation. C1

Business Digest C2

OBITUARIES C12

Maureen Daly
A writer whose first novel, ''Seventeenth Summer,'' anticipated the young-adult genre by decades when it appeared in 1942 and has endured as a classic coming-of-age story, she was 85. C12

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: When Hamid met Pervez; political drama in New York; more comfort for the comfortable; Iva Toguri, American.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword: E32
TV List: E24-25
Public Lives: B2
Weather: D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LITIGATION (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); ESPIONAGE (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); ARRESTS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (73%); WIRETAPPING (73%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); LOBBYING (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); AL-QAEDA (70%); BORDER CONTROL (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); JUDGES (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (60%); AIRPORTS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ZAMBIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); BELGIUM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006



595 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Clean Air, Murky Precedent

BYLINE: By William Sweet. 
William Sweet is the news editor of Spectrum, the magazine of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, and the author of ''Kicking the Carbon Habit.''

 BODY:
ON Wednesday, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California signed a bold bill pledging the state to cut its greenhouse gas emissions 25 percent by 2020. It was refreshing to hear a politician of national stature explain, with an air of true conviction, why global warming is an urgent problem. ''It creeps up on you,'' he told ABC News, the day he said he would sign the bill. ''And then all of a sudden, it is too late to do something about it. We don't want to go there.''
 Just so. For the last nine years, since the United States refused to join in the Kyoto program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the country has acted in stubborn defiance of the obvious facts. Thus California is setting the country an admirable example. But there are a couple of worrisome aspects to the initiative: one is a possible reaction against greenhouse reductions elsewhere in America should California fail to meet its goals; the second is the question of whether this approach, even if successful, has much relevance for the rest of the country. 
The new bill gives the California Air Resources Board, the state's air-quality watchdog, sweeping powers to create and put in place a plan to slash the state's greenhouse gas emissions back to 1990 levels. Although that still falls short of what the Kyoto Protocol asked of the United States -- a cut to 7 percent below 1990 levels --the bill's objectives are formidable enough.
 Working with other state agencies and building on a wide variety of regulations already in place, the board is in effect authorized to set rules for everything from making plastics to toasting English muffins. No doubt the plan will include stricter energy standards for residential and commercial construction, emissions caps for major industries like electric power and petrochemicals, and new practices for farmers. Inevitably, stricter limits on motor vehicles, which account for about 40 percent of the state's greenhouse gas emissions, will be a big part of the program.
 Those involved in formulating the new law express confidence that its strategy is workable, based as it is on proved technologies identified by a climate panel that reported to Mr. Schwarzenegger this year. 
 But, paradoxically, the plan is threatened by California's previous success on the issue. The state is a world leader in green technologies, and the progress it has already made in constraining its emissions will make it harder in some ways to achieve even greater advances. Its per capita consumption of electricity and gasoline already are much lower than the national average -- its annual per capita electricity use is less than 8,000 kilowatt/hours, while the country's is greater than 12,000. It is one of the nation's leading wind energy producers, and has the country's most ambitious solar roofs program.
 The United States as a whole gets about half its electricity from coal, the most carbon-intense of fuels, and coal generation accounts for more than a third of its greenhouse gas emissions. So if the United States decided to get with the Kyoto program, it could comply just by replacing half its coal-fired plants with proven low-carbon sources like wind, natural gas and nuclear energy. A simple tax on carbon emissions or a national cap-and-trade system could get the job done.
 In California, however, most electricity already comes from relatively low-carbon sources -- there are no coal-fired plants in the state -- so the burden of cutting the state's greenhouse gases necessarily falls on widely dispersed activities: cars, manufacturing, buildings, appliances. 
 That means that the air board will have to issue a huge number of very complicated regulations, which will set the stage for industrial interests and free-market advocates to mount a sustained counterattack on the whole idea of the bill. The argument that the bill puts California at a disadvantage economically will be a powerful weapon in their hands.
 Supporters of the plan like Devra Wang, the director of energy research at the Natural Resources Defense Council in San Francisco, feel that political motivation can be sustained. She points out that the greenhouse bill had strong support from the leaders of both parties, and that the air board has a record of making good decisions based on science. 
 But the air board's record of trying to force the adoption of zero-emission cars in California does not inspire much confidence. Its efforts to make automakers provide lower-carbon vehicles, which began with a 2002 law, are tied up in federal court.
 Even if California's program overcomes these obstacles and cuts emissions radically, its approach to doing the job is not likely to be a model for other states. What is more, there's a danger that failure could be taken incorrectly as proof that the job of radically cutting emissions cannot be done at all. Its goals may well be too ambitious for the state to meet, and be based on a flawed premise that greenhouse gas control can be done ad hoc and state by state.
 No matter what happens, the end message will surely be that there's no real substitute for concerted national action. Simply put, though California deserves praise for attacking the climate problem head on, it may be trying to do too much on its own. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROCHEMICALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); WIND ENERGY (67%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (62%); WIND POWER PLANTS (50%) 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (78%) William Sweet

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2006



596 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: The Green Flag's Out for Bold, Fast and Highly Styled 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
It's not a time to be timid. 
 Even in this era of high gas prices, carmakers displaying their wares at the Paris Motor Show are pushing bold, aggressive designs, even on their smallest models.
One standout was the Peugeot 908 concept car, meant to be Peugeot's top- of-the-line model. Called ''a stunning Maybach beater'' by the automotive Web site Jalopnik.com, the 908 boasts a black lacquer exterior. But the real news is under the hood. The 908 has a 700-horsepower, 5.5-liter V-12 diesel engine, offering speed and, with a diesel, a modicum of fuel efficiency.
 Speed is definitely a top-of-mind issue for Alfa Romeo, whose 8C Competizione concept car is meant to be the first of a limited-edition series of high-powered cars. 
 Alfa has not stated a price, but plans to build only 500 of the 8C, which is made out of a lightweight carbon-fiber body and has the same rear-wheel-drive underpinnings as the Maserati Coupe.
 It is fast, with a 4.7-liter V-8 engine that generates 450 horsepower. Alfa isn't making any promises about selling the 8C in America but rumors abound that Alfa would use the 8C to re-enter the United States market, possibly in 2009. Alfa stopped selling cars in the United States in the mid-1990's. It has said it plans to return to the American market but at the earliest that would be in 2009, and it might be later.
 The show's smallest cars do not boast that kind of performance but they do try to keep up in design. 
 Far from the square econoboxes of old, the Renault Twingo concept car and the new C30 from Volvo share the same style of rear end, which tapers from a high, narrow roof to a low, wide rear end. That is a long overdue redesign for Twingo, which has been a utilitarian minicar for a dozen years, while the Volvo is aimed at trend-conscious young buyers who see the brand's other cars as too staid.
 There is no official name yet for this upside-down-cupcake look, meant to create the illusion of space in a small package. 
 But Richard Parry-Jones, who heads global product development for Ford Motor, called the style ''wide haunches'' while Christopher Theodore, a former Ford and Chrysler executive now with the American design firm ASC, said the cars have ''big hips.''
 Front ends are becoming more distinctive, too. The Ford Mondeo wagon on display here has two grilles, a narrow one on top that brings to mind the Ford Fusion in the United States, and a broad grid on the bottom, portraying a tough take-on-all-comers attitude.
 The Auris Space Concept car from Toyota is also rugged in the front, and could be what the next generation Corolla will look like when Toyota introduces it next year in the United States and elsewhere. The Auris, with 19-inch wheels, geometric lamps and a sculptured nose bears almost no resemblance to the prosaic Corollas found on airport rental lots.
 The chalky yellow concept car drew all sorts of visitors to the Toyota stand, including Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive of both Renault and Nissan, who brought an entourage to look it over on Friday.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Ford Mondeo has two grilles, a narrow one on top and a broad grid on the bottom, to highlight a tough take-on-all-comers attitude.
The Peugeot 908 sports a black lacquer exterior and a 700-horsepower, 5.5-liter V-12 diesel engine meant for speed.
The redesigned Renault Twingo tapers from a high, narrow roof to a low, wide rear like Volvo's C30.
 The Alfa Romeo 8C Competizione concept car has a 4.7-liter V-8 engine that generates 450 horsepower. (Photographs by Richard Harbus for The International Herald Tribune)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); CONCEPT CARS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); SPORTS CARS (75%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (62%) Automobiles; Paris Motor Show; Trade Shows and Fairs; Design

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Peugeot ; Alfa Romeo Inc; Renault Sa; Ford Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2006



597 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Watching Prices Swing in Health, Housing and Stocks 

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
BLUE-CHIP stocks flirted with record highs, buoyed by record corporate profits and moderating energy prices. The Dow Jones industrial average briefly poked above its record closing high during the day on Thursday, but later retreated to finish just shy of the mark. Then shares slipped in late afternoon trading yesterday, to close at 11,679.07, a bit shy of the record close of 11,722.98.
 Health care costs also continued to climb, but house prices fell for the first time in a decade. That led some economists and stock analysts to speculate that economic growth may be slowing. Almost in affirmation, the government reduced its estimate of economic growth in the second quarter to a 2.6 percent annual rate from 2.9 percent.

CIGARETTE SUIT -- Tobacco companies lost a significant ruling in another big lawsuit when a federal judge in Brooklyn granted class-action status to a lawsuit in which smokers say that the industry fraudulently promoted light cigarettes as a safer alternative to regular cigarettes. 
The case, which names Philip Morris, R. J. Reynolds, British American Tobacco, Liggett, Brown & Williamson and Lorillard, differs from many previous lawsuits in that it does not say smokers suffered personal injury. Instead, it focuses on fraud.
 A lawyer representing the plaintiffs said tens of millions of people could join the class and damages could climb as high as $200 billion. Because the suit was filed under a federal racketeering law, damages could be tripled.
 Three other class-action cases based on the same theory have been certified, but they are all in state courts and involve fewer smokers.
 Congress is considering two bills that would increase regulation of the tobacco industry. One would ban the use of the terms ''light'' and ''low tar.'' Another would give the Food and Drug Administration the authority to regulate tobacco.

TURNING POINT -- For the first time in 11 years, monthly figures showed the median price of a previously owned home falling as inventories of unsold homes rose to levels not seen in more than a decade.
 The National Association of Realtors said that the median price in August fell to $225,000, down 1.7 percent from August 2005. That was the first time since April 1995 that the national median price was lower than the month a year before.
 Volume fell as well as prices. The number of existing-homes sold, which make up about 85 percent of all home sales, declined 0.5 percent in August from July. They had slumped in that month by 4.1 percent from June.
 At the same time, the Commerce Department said that sales of new homes rose 4.1 percent in August from July. But economists warned against reading too much into those figures because the government adjusted the July figure downward before making the comparison.
 The latest Commerce Department statistics on all construction spending will be released on Monday

SILVER LINING -- Falling gasoline prices sent consumers' moods soaring in September, the Conference Board said. Its consumer confidence index rose to 104.5, from 100.2. in August. Analysts had expected the index to rise to 103.
 A steady job market helped brighten consumers' moods. The Labor Department said the number of people making initial claims for unemployment benefits dropped by 6,000, to 316,000, last week. Still, the Conference Board said it found lingering concern about jobs and wages.
 The Labor Department will shine some light on the employment outlook on Friday, when it releases statistics on job creation, wages and the unemployment rate in September.

LESS, BUT MORE -- The cost of employee health care coverage rose 7.7 percent this year, according to a survey sponsored by the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research and Educational Trust.
 That is the lowest increase since 1999, but was still more than double the inflation rate and more than the increase in workers' incomes. At the same time, people had to pay a greater share of the cost of their care: $2,973 annually for family coverage, on average, out of a total cost of $11,481. 
 The government forecasts that 20 million to 30 million people will have high-deductible insurance policies tied to health savings accounts by 2010. About three million people had such plans last December.

EXECUTIVES IN JAIL -- Andrew S. Fastow, who engineered the collapse of the Enron Corporation and then helped prosecutors convict other executives who helped facilitate the fraud, was sentenced to six years in federal prison.
 Mr. Fastow had agreed to serve 10 years in jail when he pleaded guilty in 2004 to two counts of conspiracy, but Judge Kenneth M. Hoyt of Federal District Court said he deserved less time behind bars because he had cooperated with prosecutors and with investors seeking to recoup some of the billions lost when Enron collapsed in scandal in 2001. Mr. Fastow, Enron's former finance chief, has surrendered nearly $30 million in cash and property to compensate investors.
 Coincidentally, Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chief executive of WorldCom, surrendered at a federal prison in Louisiana to begin a 25-year sentence for his role in the $11 billion accounting fraud that toppled that company.
 Jeffrey K. Skilling, Enron's former chief executive, is scheduled to be sentenced next month. He was convicted of fraud in May.

EXECUTIVES QUIT -- As Hewlett-Packard's former chairwoman, Patricia C. Dunn, prepared to testify before a Congressional committee investigating the company's spying operation on its own directors, journalists and others, its general counsel, Ann O. Baskins, resigned.
 In quitting, Ms. Baskins joined a list of Hewlett-Packard officers who have left the company in the aftermath of the spying scandal. In addition to Ms. Dunn, who resigned last week, Anthony R. Gentilucci, H. P.'s manager of global investigations, and Kevin Hunsaker, director of ethics, have also stepped down. 
 The company is waiting to see if prosecutors will file criminal charges in the case. Investigators used by H .P. may have illegally misrepresented themselves to obtain private phone records.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Sept. 23 through Sept. 29:

1. A Dog's Life, Upgraded
 2. The Choice: A Longer Life or More Stuff
 3. So Small a Town, So Many Patent Suits
 4. The Ascent of Wind Power
 5. Not So Funny Anymore: Squabbling and Spiraling Costs Dissolve a Comedy Mill
 Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Patricia C. Dunn, the former chairwoman of Hewlett-Packard, testified before a Congressional committee investigating the company's spying on its directors, some journalists and others. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); LITIGATION (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SMOKING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (75%); EXISTING HOME SALES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); PERSONAL INJURY (74%); CLASS ACTIONS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); JUDGES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); LAWYERS (70%); ETHICS (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); ESPIONAGE (59%) Smoking and Tobacco; Suits and Litigation; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Labor; Smoking and Tobacco; Unemployment Insurance; Medicine and Health; Bankruptcies; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Sentences (Criminal); Smoking and Tobacco; Boards of Directors; Espionage; Biographical Information; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Advertising and Marketing; Smoking and Tobacco; Health Insurance and Managed Care

COMPANY: BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) National Assn of Realtors; Conference Board; Labor Department (US); Kaiser Family Foundation; Health Research & Educational Trust ; Enron Corp; Hewlett-Packard Co; Commerce Department

TICKER: BTI (NYSE MKT) (56%); BTI (JSE) (56%); BATS (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (56%)

PERSON: Andrew S Fastow; Kenneth M (Judge) Hoyt; Ann O Baskins; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2006



598 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1613 words

HEADLINE: Better Mood at the Gas Pump. What About the Voting Booth? 

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
On election day, will voters see their gas tanks as half full or half empty?
 Gasoline prices have plummeted in the last month, dropping by nearly 25 percent since mid-July, and despite a recent uptick in crude oil prices, most energy experts still expect the price of gasoline to fall a bit further by November.
Six weeks from the midterm elections, the falloff is comforting the Republican majority up for re-election in Congress, limiting the impact of a potentially damaging issue. But Democrats hope to gain power on Capitol Hill, in part, by hitting on the toll that high energy costs have taken on American consumers and trying to draw connections to what they see as the Bush administration's kowtowing to big oil interests. 
 A gallon of regular gas now averages $2.33, after rising above $3 in August. But given that even the current lower prices are higher than was common just a couple of years ago, the question of who will benefit politically from the drop is still hotly disputed. 
 ''Nobody thinks $2.50 a gallon is cheap; it's still expensive,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois, who is leading the effort to win a majority in the House. ''Guess what? Republicans may be relieved from a political standpoint but their voters aren't.''
 So, are Republicans worried?
 ''Absolutely not,'' said Carl Forti, the spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee. ''Right now people are excited they are not paying $3 a gallon anymore, and frankly, so am I. Today, in every place in America, gas is cheaper than a month ago.''
 The sudden decline has also ignited suspicions that the Republican administration and giant oil companies conspired to cut gasoline prices for electoral gains. 
 ''I think prices are going down now because it's election time but I feel they will go back up again right after,'' said Roberta Mays, a school bus driver in Knox, Pa. 
 Her opinion was reflected in a Sept. 15-17 Gallup poll, which found that 42 percent of respondents said that they believed the Bush administration was manipulating the price of gasoline in advance of the fall elections. 
 And the accusation has provoked a vigorous debate on the Web. On huffingtonpost.com, a left-wing blog, someone commented: ''Anybody with any brains KNOWS this government manipulates almost everything here in the States.''
 The White House press secretary, Tony Snow, even brought up that conspiracy theory at a recent briefing by joking that some people thought ''the President has been rigging gas prices, which would give him the kind of magisterial clout unknown to any other human being.''
 Prices are down largely because of a sharp drop in global oil prices, which peaked in July at $77 a barrel, and, while up slightly this week from recent lows around $60, are still under $63 a barrel. 
 Much of the drop can be attributed to a big sell-off by hedge funds and other speculative traders, who help determine the price of crude oil and other petroleum-based products on international commodity markets -- and not to American oil companies, which control only a fraction of global oil supplies.
 While the drop this fall is larger than under ordinary circumstances, it also fits a pattern that sometimes occurs at this time of year. Tom Kloza, publisher of the Oil Price Information Service, said a decline in prices after Labor Day was not uncommon because of lower demand in the months following the summer driving season. Demand then picks up in the winter, often leading to a rebound in prices. 
 ''One of the reasons you don't hear much about gasoline during elections is because gasoline is almost always in retreat at this time of the year,'' Mr. Kloza said. ''If we really want to see a meaningful energy policy in this country we need to change the elections to May.'' In recent weeks, oil traders have also been comforted by the fact that no strong hurricane has slammed into the Gulf of Mexico, home to a quarter of America's domestic energy supply, and that tensions in the Middle East seem to have eased a little. 
 Not surprisingly, the sharp decline in gasoline prices has lifted the morale of Americans. Consumer confidence indicators released on Tuesday rebounded from a nine-month low, thanks mainly to the drop in gasoline, which has left many Americans feeling a little wealthier.
 The retreat of gasoline prices provides some relief to the Bush administration and Republicans that could help blunt public dissatisfaction with Washington.
 ''It removes a significant arrow from the quivers of Democrats,'' said Frank Luntz, a Republican political consultant and pollster. ''When prices crossed $3, voters wanted their elected officials to feel as much pain as they felt. Now, all that anger is gone. I don't think it's going to help Republicans but it is no longer going to help Democrats either.''
 Still, despite the drop-off, many Americans remain deeply disturbed by the price of gasoline. Indeed, today's prices have merely erased the most recent highs and have barely returned to last year's levels. 
 Ms. Mays, 41, said she recently gave up a job that required a 60-mile commute each day, partly because of the high cost of gasoline. A single mother who is struggling to raise a 10-year-old son, she said the fuel price increase absorbed a large chunk of her $9,000 salary. 
 ''It was almost not worth going to work anymore,'' she said. ''I keep thinking when is gasoline going back to $1 again? It would be nice but I don't think so.''
 Democrats are hoping that such feelings will translate into a high turnout among discontented voters, enough perhaps for them to win the House and even the Senate.
 ''Voters see the link'' between gasoline prices and chaos in the Middle East and in Iraq, said Paul Begala, a Democrat political strategist. ''You don't have to tell them.''
 ''If they pull up at the pump and pay $2.50 instead of $3 a gallon, it's an enormous difference,'' he added. ''Do they say 'Thank you George Bush,' and vote Republican? Perhaps. But I wouldn't want to be the Republican staking my career on that decision.''
 Political analysts said that while the war in Iraq and the handling of relief efforts after Hurricane Katrina are much bigger factors in shaping public attitudes, many Americans also see gasoline as a sore issue.
 While the approval ratings for the Bush administration have risen somewhat from their lows of the early summer, the president's declining popularity has generally mirrored the rise in gasoline prices, said Andrew Kohut, the president of the Pew Research Center.
 ''Rising gasoline prices have taken quite a toll on President Bush's approval ratings,'' Mr. Kohut said. ''Of course there have been other issues -- like Katrina and Iraq -- but if you track the rise in gasoline prices it correlates very nicely with Bush's falling ratings.''
 The question now, he added, ''is how much will declining prices obviate that clear negative?''
 Gasoline prices, visible to consumers every day, are not necessarily crucial in their own right. But they have acted as a proxy for attitudes toward the general economy, which, Democrats argue, has worsened for the average American under President Bush. 
 ''It's a constant reminder that things are tough,'' said Senator Jack Reed, a Democrat of Rhode Island. ''Everything keeps going up and wages for middle-class Americans have been stuck for five years.'' 
 In contrast to the previous energy shocks of the 1970's and early 1980's, however, the recent surge in oil prices did not seriously trip up the economy, sending it over the edge into a recession. The increase was driven by rising global demand, not by a supply shortage precipitated by events in the Middle East, and growth has continued right through the surge in prices. 
 Indeed, Americans are consuming more gasoline than ever, thanks to a growing population and an expanding economy. But the price increases have imposed a toll.
 Gasoline demand in the United States is expected to rise just 1 percent this year, to 9.22 million barrels a day, according to the forecasts by the Energy Information Administration, compared with an annual growth of 1.9 percent from 1992 to 1999. Next year, the agency sees a rise of 1.2 percent in gasoline consumption.
 ''While gasoline demand has not declined, the growth has certainly declined from its longer-term trend,'' said Tancred Lidderdale, a senior economist at the Energy Information Administration. ''One thing I would suggest is that the impact of high prices isn't immediate. Habits are slow to change.''
 They are changing, though. Wal-Mart has said that its customers are making fewer trips to its stores. Automakers in Detroit have suffered big drops in the sale of their S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks as buyers turn to smaller, more efficient models. More drivers are carpooling or delaying some trips because of the impact of high prices. 
 In a New York Times/CBS poll taken in May, 63 percent of respondents said they had reduced their driving because of higher prices; 49 percent said they planned to change their holiday plans because of higher gas costs; 56 percent said that high energy costs had led to cutbacks in household spending.
 ''It's hard on the middle class, on people like us,'' Jean Smith, 59, a schoolteacher in Kennett Square, Pa., said this week. She said high energy costs were a burden on her family, which has $15,000 in debt, one son in college and another in the military. She and her husband, also a high-school teacher, earn a combined income of about $75,000 a year. 
 ''Our gasoline and heating oil bills have doubled in the past 10 years,'' she said, ''but our salaries certainly haven't.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A car fills up at a Wawa store in Swedesboro, N.J. Gasoline prices are averaging $2.33 a gallon, down nearly 25 percent since mid-July. (Photo by William Thomas Cain for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Jean Smith, a schoolteacher, arrives home in Kennett Square, Pa. She said fuel prices remained a burden. (Photo by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)(pg. C9)ChartGasoline prices and consumer confidence tend to move in opposite directions.Graphs track the following from 2000-2006:Price of regular gas, in 2006 dollars (weekly)Consumer Confidence Index (monthly)(Sources by U.S. Energy Information Administration
 The Conference Board, via Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (61%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (61%); LIBERAL MEDIA (60%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Election Issues; Elections; Public Opinion; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (54%) Gallup Poll

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (58%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (56%) George W (Pres) Bush; Jad Mouwad

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2006



599 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: A Statistic That Shortens the Distance to Europe 

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Europe has high unemployment, brought on by tight labor laws that make it hard to fire workers and therefore discourage hiring them. The United States, on the other hand, has low unemployment thanks to its vigorous and flexible economy.
 That has long been the consensus view, and it is supported by official unemployment rates, which are much lower in the United States. But there is another rate that can be considered -- the employment rate -- and that shows that the differences are narrowing, if not vanishing, for those in the prime working ages. The employment of women in Europe has been rising at an especially rapid pace.
The employment rate simply shows the percentage of a given population with jobs. Unlike the unemployment rate, which ignores those who are not seeking jobs, the employment rate is not affected by the reason people are not working. 
 A decade ago, in 1995, the employment rate in the United States for men aged 25 to 54 was 87.6 percent. In Europe, including the 15 countries that were then members of the European Union, the rate was 85.3 percent, a difference of 2.3 percentage points. By 2005, the United States figure had slipped and the Europe figure was up, leaving a difference of just 0.3 percentage point.
 Statistics released by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, as compiled by the Center for Economic and Policy Research, show that in that age bracket European employment was higher than that of the United States in 2002 and 2003, when the American economic recovery was producing fewer jobs than it has since. The return to a higher employment rate in the United States probably does reflect the faster-growing American economy.
 Among women, the percentage of workers in that age group slipped over the decade in the United States, to 72 percent from 72.2 percent, while in Europe it rose to 69.8 percent from 61.1 percent. That cut the gap from 11.1 percentage points to just 2.2 percentage points.
 The accompanying charts show the differences between six major European countries and the United States. A decade ago, all of the European countries had fewer men and women working than did the United States. Now both men and women in Britain are more likely than those in the United States to have jobs, and while French men remain a little less likely to be employed, French women are more likely to have jobs.
 Some of the most impressive changes have come in the countries that traditionally were least likely to provide jobs for women. In 1995, three out of five Spanish women aged 25 to 54 were not employed. By 2005, the proportions had reversed. Italy also experienced a surge in female employment. 
 Whether or not those changes are good is not clear from the statistics. A rise in the number of women with jobs may reflect greater opportunity, or a greater need for a second income in a family. And of course they say nothing about the quality of a job, or how well paid it is. 
 It should also be noted that younger and older people in Europe are still less likely than Americans to have jobs. Youth unemployment is an issue of considerable concern in some countries, and many European countries have adopted policies aimed at increasing retirement ages and removing or reducing incentives to promote early retirement.
 But when it comes to those in their prime earning years, Europe and the United States are much closer than they were in terms of providing jobs for their citizens.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Employment Rates''Graph tracks employment rates (both men and women) from 1995-2005 for the following:FranceGermanyItalySpainBritainEurope*United States*Europe figures include 15 countries that were members of the European Union before the 2004 expansion.(Source by Center for Economic and Policy Research analysis of Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) Labor

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (82%) European Union

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2006



600 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Spending Fell in August As Income Growth Lagged

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Americans were more frugal in their spending in August as their incomes rose at a slower pace, and one important measure of inflation climbed faster than it has in 11 years, according to a government report released yesterday. 
 The Commerce Department said in its monthly report on personal income and consumption that American consumers spent 0.1 percent more in August than in July, the smallest month-to-month increase since November. When the figures are adjusted for inflation, spending fell by 0.1 percent.
''Clearly, the consumer spending binge is coming to an end,'' said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisers.
 In addition, personal income posted its smallest monthly increase since November, rising 0.3 percent. The comparable figure for July was 0.5 percent. 
 After a number of recent economic reports suggesting that inflationary pressures were easing, the report yesterday, released by the Commerce Department, was a sign that they are not gone for good. While the Fed has said it expects inflation to gradually diminish as a problem, the central bank has not yet sounded the all-clear -- and the latest figures indicate why. 
 Of the many ways to gauge inflation, the one the Fed watches most carefully is the personal consumption expenditures deflator, a figure derived from the personal-spending statistics that excludes food and energy prices. The deflator showed an increase of 2.5 percent in August, compared with August 2005; it was the largest year-over-year increase since April 1995.
 Stuart Hoffman, chief economist with PNC Financial, said that the jump was a reminder ''that inflation cannot yet be completely written off.''
 In setting interest rates over the last several months, the Federal Reserve has weighed two competing factors: a slowing economy and rising inflation. So far, it has deferred to the slowing economy and left interest rates untouched for the last two months, saying that inflation will eventually subside.
 Despite yesterday's surprisingly high inflation numbers, economists said that the Fed's economic forecast is still the most likely. 
 Tom Levinson, an economist with ING, said the report gave little reason for alarm. ''Headline inflation measures,'' he said, ''have started to turn lower, and it is unlikely to be too long before the lagging core measures follow suit.''
 Meanwhile, there were other signs yesterday that the economic outlook was brightening. The University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment rose to 85.4 in September, from 82 in August, showing that Americans were more confident about the state of the economy than they have been since April. 
 And a measure of economic activity in the Chicago area showed an unexpected increase this month. The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said that its business barometer rose to 62.1 in September from 57.1 in August.


(Source by Commerce Department)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth Vasquez does some Halloween shopping with his son Kenneth Jr. and daughter Kaylie in a new Wal-Mart store in Chicago. (Photo by Joshua Lott/Reuters)Chart: ''Personal Income''Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Personal Income and SpendingIncomeAug.: $11.05CHANGE FROM July: +0.3%ConsumptionAug.: 9.36CHANGE FROM July: +0.1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); INTEREST RATES (63%) United States Economy; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

PERSON: Jeremy Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2006

 
