

1 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
This time it's Interpublic doing an internal merger to add another giant to Madison Avenue.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
FOR the second time in less than two months, a big merger reshaping Madison Avenue is a result of an internal realignment rather than an acquisition or takeover.
The Interpublic Group of Companies in New York is combining two of its four global agency networks: Ammirati Puris Lintas and the Lowe & Partners Worldwide unit of Lowe Group. The merged Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide will have offices in 80 countries and billings of more than $11 billion, ranking it fourth among all agency networks. 
 Accounts of Lowe Lintas include Lowe clients like Coca-Cola, for the Sprite soft drink brand; Heineken beer, and Marriott International, for the Courtyard by Marriott lodging chain. Accounts coming from Ammirati Puris include the Ameritech unit of SBC Communications; Lego Systems, and United Parcel Service.
Besides the "Ammirati Puris" part of the Ammirati Puris Lintas name disappearing from the moniker of the merged agency, almost all top managers of Lintas Lowe, including those for American operations, are coming from Lowe.
For instance, Frank Lowe, chairman and chief executive at Lowe & Partners, will be chairman and chief executive at Lowe Lintas as Martin Puris, chairman, chief executive and chief creative officer at Ammirati Puris, resigns.
The primary reason for the merger echoes the explanation given by True North Communications in September when that giant agency company shifted about half the business handled by Bozell Worldwide -- including all accounts handled outside the United States -- to FCB Worldwide. The goal, True North management said, was to take advantage of the economies of scale by bolstering the larger agency network, FCB, to better handle assignments from multinational clients.
"We ask ourselves how do we resource these agencies with enough volume to support better responsiveness to clients on a worldwide basis," Philip H. Geier Jr., chairman and chief executive at Interpublic, said Friday, the day the merger was announced after weeks of speculation in trade publications.
"The combination as we go forward provides for better growth, creating a top-five agency that can compete much better," he added. "This is a good move for the clients, the employees and the shareholders long term." On the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Interpublic -- the world's largest agency company in billings, at $37.7 billion, and No. 2 in revenue. at $4.3 billion -- closed Friday at $40.625, up $1.125.
Lowe has 3,500 employees in offices in 41 countries with estimated billings of $4 billion and Ammirati Puris has 9,800 employees in offices in 78 countries with estimated billings of almost $7.7 billion. The merger comes five years after a similar merger when Interpublic acquired Ammirati & Puris, a midsize New York agency with a reputation for creativity, and merged it with Lintas Worldwide, known for its network of overseas offices.
This time, "A.P.L. is very strong around the world, strategically and so forth," Mr. Geier said, "and Lowe is very creative."
Clashes generated by the distinctly different cultures of Ammirati & Puris and Lintas, made worse by account losses and turmoil in the executive suite, kept that first merger from achieving its full potential.
Now, Mr. Geier is more optimistic.
"Frank has a great ability to lead an operation," he said of Mr. Lowe, "and creative people in particular like to work with him."
"And with Sennott coming over, you've got the creative and the realism working together," Mr. Geier said, laughing.
His reference was to Michael Sennott, 58, who joins Lowe Lintas as deputy chairman, the No. 2 post under Mr. Lowe, from vice chairman of an Interpublic sibling, McCann-Erickson World Group in New York.
"I am delighted to have assembled a team of such talent," said Mr. Lowe, 58, referring to the board of Lowe Lintas. Mr. Lowe joined Interpublic in 1990 when he sold Lowe Group, the parent of the London agency, Lowe Howard-Spink, he founded in 1981. In addition to his duties at Lowe Lintas, Mr. Lowe will continue as chairman and chief executive at Lowe Group and at Octagon, the Interpublic sports marketing division.
Other board members of Lowe Lintas include: Jerry Judge, 49, president, from president at Lowe & Partners; Adrian Holmes, 46, chief creative officer, from the same post at Lowe & Partners, and Lee Garfinkel, 44. Mr. Garfinkel, chairman and chief creative officer of the United States operations of Lowe & Partners, is to take on similar responsibilities for the domestic operations of Lowe Lintas; he will be assisted by Gary Goldsmith, 42, who has been vice chairman under Mr. Garfinkel.
As for Mr. Puris, he agreed to serve as a consultant to Lowe Lintas through the end of 2000.
"Phil discussed the concept of the merger with me about a year ago," Mr. Puris, 60, said Friday. "I said, 'It sounds interesting, but if you're thinking of me, don't. One merger is enough in a lifetime.' "
"We did a lot of the grunt work," he added, "replacing a lot of people who needed to be replaced, into the hundreds, and putting in some very good people around the world and in the New York office, which is now on its way."
"I'm now trying to figure out a way to get into the Internet business," Mr. Puris said. "The Internet feels like 1965, when I got into the advertising business."
The merger leaves Interpublic with three worldwide agency networks. The others are Draft Worldwide, specializing in direct marketing, and McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising, part of McCann-Erickson World Group.
The fate of some accounts in the merger is unknown as executives of both agencies try to resolve conflicts. For instance, Ammirati Puris works for the Burger King unit of Diageo, Dell Computer, General Motors and Johnson & Johnson while Lowe works for the Denny's unit of Advantica Restaurant Group, Sun Microsystems, Toyota and American Home Products.
And Unilever, a founding client of an Ammirati Puris predecessor, Lintas Worldwide, conflicts with a Lowe client, Henkel, the German soap and detergent maker.
One way the conflicts might be resolved is to move accounts from Lowe Lintas to Interpublic siblings like McCann-Erickson. And if Interpublic acquires MacManus Group in New York, as trade publications have speculated, some accounts could be shifted to MacManus agencies like N. W. Ayer & Partners, D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles and Kaplan Thaler Group. (MacManus executives have insisted there is no deal to sell to Interpublic.)
The most intractable conflicts seem to be those between Unilever and Henkel and General Motors and Toyota. The likely outcome will be to retain the larger clients in both cases, Unilever and G. M.
Also on Friday, as if unwilling to be left out of the realignment mania, McCann-Erickson announced that it would reorganize its media operations around the world under the name Universal McCann, which has been used in Europe.
Universal McCann will have more than 2,400 employees in 127 countries, providing media planning and buying on accounts with billings estimated at $13.2 billion. Ira Carlin, 51, will be chairman; he had been executive vice president and worldwide media director at McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising.
Other top managers of Universal McCann will include Murray Dudgeon, 44, worldwide operations director; Mark Stewart, 40, regional director for North America, and Bill Cella, 48, director for broadcast and programming. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (96%); T (NYSE) (85%); MAR (NYSE) (84%); KO (NYSE) (57%); UPS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LOWE LINTAS & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE; INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC; AMMIRATI PURIS LINTAS; LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (96%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (93%); AT&T INC (85%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%); BOZELL INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOWE LINTAS & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE; INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC; AMMIRATI PURIS LINTAS; LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (77%); SOFT DRINKS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); RANKINGS (71%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; LOWE, FRANK; PURIS, MARTIN PHILIP H GEIER JR (67%); LEE GARFINKEL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



2 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Awaiting Verdict, Microsoft Starts Lobbying Campaign

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
The first part of the verdict in the Microsoft trial is due out soon, perhaps as soon as Friday. But the Microsoft Corporation is already looking past the legal case and lobbying the government to pass laws that would protect the company in areas where it is being challenged in court.
When the company distributed its annual report in September, two million shareholders also got a letter from Robert Herbold, Microsoft's chief operating officer, urging them to join a lobbying effort to protect what the company calls its "freedom to innovate." 
 Loosely translated, that catch-phrase means freedom to design products however the company chooses -- including the freedom to bundle other products, like a Web browser, with the Windows operating system. The decision to build a Web browser into Windows is a central element of the government's antitrust case against Microsoft.
Mr. Herbold's letter directs shareholders to the company's "freedom to innovate" Web site, where visitors are informed that the "freedom to innovate network was formed as a response to the overwhelming amount of correspondence" the company had received "regarding the trial with the Justice Department and other public policy issues."
With the court's findings of facts imminent, both sides in the trial are scurrying to anticipate and manage the public relations fallout. But Microsoft sees its lobbying effort as a long-term political strategy that will be followed whatever the outcome of the case.
A Microsoft spokesman said the site was set up earlier this year "as just a way to channel the thousands of people who wrote to us about the trial." The spokesman added that Microsoft's leadership had decided to send the letter to shareholders after the trial was essentially over because the company now viewed "freedom to innovate" as a broader term covering other political issues of interest to the company, like government policies dealing with encryption, software piracy and Internet taxation.
But the Web site does not reflect a change of thinking in any prominent way. The opening page complains about the trial, including a quotation from an unnamed Web-site visitor, printed in red italic letters, that says: "The actions of the government against the Microsoft Corporation are detrimental to the very system of competition that made the U.S. a world leader in technology."
In an upper corner is a link to a page that lists the company's additional concerns. (Even there, the second item reiterates the "freedom to innovate" theme, saying: "The government should continue to exercise great restraint in regulating this industry, which has brought such remarkable advances to consumers and benefits to the economy.")
But a more prominent link on the home page, labeled "Contact Congress," directs people to a page with the heading: "Tell your Congressional representatives and state officials where you stand on the Department of Justice's antitrust lawsuit against Microsoft." There is no mention of piracy, encryption or any other issue.
Moving on from there, visitors are presented with an interactive menu that allows them to send e-mail entreaties directly to members of Congress and to their state legislators. (Nineteen states joined the Federal government's antitrust suit.)
Hundreds of thousands of people have visited the Web page, the Microsoft spokesman said, and more than 100,000 have used it to send messages to Congress or to the company, he said.
He asserted that Microsoft had every right to lobby Congress on issues related to the trial because "a lot of people are dissatisfied with the case, and there are policy implications that come out of the case, and Congress has oversight responsibility for the Department of Justice, right?"
A senior Congressional aide who is generally aware of lobbying by Microsoft said the "freedom to innovate" campaign did not appear to be generating a focused, coherent message. In fact, the Web site does not offer suggested language for visitors sending e-mails, as many similar lobbying campaigns do.
But the spokesman said Microsoft was not promoting a specific legislative proposal, adding: "This really has nothing to do with the trial; it's totally policy focused. The trial is going along on a separate track."
On that track, the presiding judge, Thomas Penfield Jackson, has announced that he will issue his findings of fact in the case on a coming Friday evening. Findings of fact are half of the judge's reasoning that make up a verdict. They are a statement of what he has concluded from the conflicting factual arguments the two sides have presented in court.
The finding might, as a hypothetical example, say that the judge does not accept Microsoft's reasoning for tying the Web browser to Windows. This would be a clear indication that he intends to find against Microsoft on that charge.
But a second element of the ruling will come later. It will comprise conclusions of law, the legal arguments and precedents justifying a conclusion. Both are required for a sustainable verdict.
Already, the company and its opponents are offering different takes on the significance of the findings of fact.
A group of lawyers who oppose Microsoft, working under the umbrella of the Computer and Communications Industry Association, held a telephone news conference on Thursday and generally proclaimed that the public should be able to see whether the judge intends to find Microsoft guilty by reading his findings of fact. That will be the case, "despite Microsoft's efforts to distract the analysis from the real issues in court," said Donald Falk, an antitrust lawyer.
But a Microsoft lawyer had a different perspective in an interview late last week.
"This is just a step toward a decision," he said. "I think there may be a lot things in the findings that are legally irrelevant." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (96%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION LOBBYING (93%); VERDICTS (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: HERBOLD, ROBERT J; BRINKLEY, JOEL

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



3 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
After Protracted Talks, a Disneyland Will Rise in Hong Kong

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Monday, Nov. 1

 BODY:
In a deal that will bring Main Street, U.S.A. to the doorstep of mainland China, the Walt Disney Company has reached an agreement to build a theme park in Hong Kong, a government official close to the negotiations said early today.
The agreement, which comes after nearly a year of arduous talks between Disney and the Hong Kong government, is to be announced on Tuesday. The theme park will be Disney's third outside the United States, after those near Tokyo and Paris, but is precedent-setting in several ways. 
 For Disney, the park would be its first significant beachhead in China, a nation with which it has had a long and occasionally stormy history. For Hong Kong, which is shaking off the effects of its worst recession in decades, it would be the most costly government undertaking since the former British colony returned to Chinese rule in 1997.
Under the terms of the deal, Disney and Hong Kong are to be partners in a joint venture that will develop the park at a secluded bay on Lantau island, six miles or so west of central Hong Kong. The park, to be built on reclaimed land not far from the vast new airport here, would open in 2005.
Financial details were scarce today, but executives briefed on the deal said Hong Kong would put up the bulk of the project's cost through its contribution toward land, roads and other services. Disney's investment is expected to be less than $300 million, these executives said.
"My guess is that Disney would be reluctant to put a lot of its own money into the park because, remember, this is a Communist country that occasionally has disputes with the United States," said David Londoner, a media analyst who follows Walt Disney for Schroder Inc. in New York.
Indeed, the agreement comes after a tense period in United States-China relations that began with the bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade in May. While anti-American feeling was not as fierce in Hong Kong, the Chinese government barred some American warships from docking here.
Disney seems aware that its brand of Americana could ruffle feathers in China's newest city. Last week, when a deal looked probable, Disney executives began meeting with economists, political leaders and academics here to build support for the theme park. They sought to allay fears about the project's financial, environmental and cultural effect on Hong Kong.
For example, Disney said it planned to give the park's restaurants and hotels a strong Chinese flavor, according to one person who met with the company. But he added that Disney left no doubt that it would build an all-American Magic Kingdom, where Mickey Mouse -- not Chairman Mao -- would reign supreme.
While the prospect of a Hong Kong Disneyland has drawn objections from a few people here on cultural grounds, it is not expected to be as emotional an issue as it was in France, where the opening of Euro Disneyland in 1992 provoked accusations of American cultural hegemony.
People in this money-minded city seem more concerned about the financing of the project, particularly Hong Kong's share. "The key is how much is this going to cost?" said Ian K. Perkin, chief economist of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce. "And how much of the project will Hong Kong own?"
Disney and Hong Kong missed a deadline for signing a deal in June. The two sides agreed to extend the talks until the end of October, and they continued to wrangle until after the midnight deadline.
Disney, which is based in Burbank, Calif., has promoted the deal as a tonic for Hong Kong's sagging economy. The company estimates that the park will attract five million visitors a year to the territory. Hong Kong now draws about 10 million visitors annually, but it has been struggling to revive its tourism industry after the 1997 hand-over to China and the Asian economic crisis.
Since Hong Kong has a population of 6.8 million, analysts said Disneyland would need to draw visitors from mainland China, Taiwan and Southeast Asia. One question is whether mainland Chinese will be able to travel here easily enough to visit the park in large numbers.
Although people from the mainland now account for one-third of Hong Kong's visitors, they generally travel in large tourist groups. The Chinese Government grants visas for individual visits sparingly.
During the long negotiations, Disney and Hong Kong have been mindful of the unhappy precedent of Euro Disneyland. In that case, Mr. Londoner said, Disney invested $140 million in the venture up front and the project borrowed heavily. When Euro Disney ran into severe financial trouble a few years later, the parent company had to inject an additional $700 million to rescue it.
Mr. Londoner said one of the French Disneyland's key weaknesses was a glut of hotel rooms. At the Hong Kong park, Disney plans only 1,400 rooms, according to one person briefed on the project. That is a conservative number, given the visitors Disney expects.
Once the deal is sealed, Hong Kong and Disney will each have to satisfy demanding audiences. Hong Kong's legislature must approve large public expenditures. Although the legislature is friendly to the territory's government, its members could ask tough questions if Hong Kong seemed to be giving too much away.
And Hong Kong's economy has bounced back since the negotiations began early this year, prompting some critics to argue that it does not need a Disney theme park as desperately as it did.
Similarly, Disney's shareholders will pay close attention to the size of the company's capital investment. Disney has been in a slump as it wrestles with slowing growth and problems at its ABC television network. The company's chairman, Michael D. Eisner, has told shareholders that he will keep a tight rein on spending.
"The number $200 million to $300 million would not be a problem," said an influential media investor who spoke on condition of anonymity. "Anything approaching $1 billion would be problematic for investors."
But Disney's desire to expand its presence in China appears to have outweighed its short-term financial problems. The company has had a rocky recent history here. In 1996, China closed its film market to Disney after the company released "Kundun," a film about the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama.
In February, China approved the release of "Mulan," an animated feature about a female Chinese warrior. The decision represented a thaw in relations with Disney. The film, though, performed poorly at the box office. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (85%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SERBIA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (78%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; LANTAU (HONG KONG); HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SERBIA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LAND RECLAMATION (67%); RESTAURANTS (60%); AIRPORTS (51%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK WALTER ELIAS 'WALT' DISNEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



4 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Relieving Road Congestion Again on Colorado Ballot

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: DENVER, Oct. 31

 BODY:
As one of the fastest-growing states in the country, Colorado has the traffic problems to prove it. On any given day, almost any given hour, highways are clogged and tempers are frayed. Arriving late has become a way of life.
But Colorado residents have a chance on Tuesday to speed things up, or so say proponents of two ballot initiatives. One would authorize state bond sales to improve highways. The other, for voters in Denver County and five adjacent counties, would expand the light-rail system. Passage of both measures would allow the state to borrow $2.1 billion, whichwould be repaid with money from the federal highway trust fund. 
 Recent polls suggest that both measures have about a 60 percent chance of passing. Gov. Bill Owens, a Republican who won election last year after promising to improve traffic conditions, has campaigned for both initiatives.
"I'm cautiously optimistic," he said in an interview, reflecting his belief that both measures will pass. "Historically with these proposals, the voting has narrowed at the end. This time we have more room to maneuver."
Unlike other Western states, including Oregon, California and Utah, that have forged ahead with expanded bus routes and new highways, light-rail systems and subways, Colorado has resisted any substantial spending to ease congestion. Its population has increased 677,000, to 3,970,971, since 1990, according to the Census Bureau.
Vehicle miles traveled around the country have increased by 70 percent over the last 20 years, compared with a 2 percent increase in new highway construction, according to transportation experts. And Colorado voters have consistently rejected measures to address traffic problems. They defeated two initiatives in 1997 and another last year.
Of the two initiatives under consideration, the highway measure is the more expensive at $1.6 billion. It would add lanes, rebuild interchanges and widen roads in 24 places around the state, a third of them along Interstate 25, the north-south axis that passes through Denver. Supporters say passage would fix problems in 10 to 12 years, rather than 20 to 25.
But opponents have called it a temporary solution that fails to consider other critical issues, like land use, employment centers and lifestyles.
"It won't work," said Greg Casini, chairman of the Rocky Mountain Chapter of the Sierra Club, one of several environmental groups fighting the highway measure. "It's just throwing money away as a short-term solution to a long-term problem. Adding a few lanes on a few highways is not a magical way to solve transportation needs."
Other opposition has focused on the cost of borrowing so much money that the total interest could reach $600 million and on uncertainties of the economy, which could reduce federal highway support.
Opponents say they would be more inclined to support highway construction as part of a larger plan that included alternative solutions. For that reason, the light-rail extension proposed for the Denver area has been viewed as a major step.
The current system is modest, 5.3 miles of track that runs through downtown into a few nearby neighborhoods, doing little to mitigate rush-hour traffic.
The proposed 19 miles of extensions would be built along two major highways, one of them a parallel spur to an insufferable stretch of I-25 between the state's largest employment centers, downtown Denver and the Denver Tech Center to the south. The extensions are expected to carry 30,000 commuters a day, the equivalent of three to five lanes of traffic.
Mr. Owens said passage of both measures would save money in the long run and would help accommodate population growth. Since 1990, only four other states -- Nevada, Arizona, Utah and Idaho -- have had a higher percentage of population increase.
"We are going to have more people," Mr. Owens said. "We would only be harming ourselves if we tried to pretend that not building roads for them is a good idea." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO; UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES REFERENDUMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); BALLOTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BONDS (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); CENSUS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (51%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL BILL OWENS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



5 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
Outside the G.O.P.'s Big Tent, Hoping He's Let Back In

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
SENATOR ROBERT C. SMITH, newly returned from the campaign trail, sat in his spacious office the other day and reflected on the importance of not being a thin-skinned grudge-holder.
He had just folded an independent presidential campaign that produced hardly a ripple, and even a newspaper in his home state, New Hampshire, had asked in an editorial, "Where did this down-home guy get this goofy idea?" 
 The senator laughed. No, he said, he would not respond in kind. He remembered the advice an old politician gave him years ago: "There's no point getting into an argument with someone who has an unlimited supply of ink and paper."
Turning serious, he said, "You can't succeed if you're afraid to fail." All right, he went on, he's not going to be president. But he got to talk about his deeply conservative principles, and he met a lot of wonderful people.
Nevertheless, Mr. Smith must be hoping, as he prepares for the next phase of his public life, that some other politicians don't hold grudges either. When he announced in July that he would run for president as an independent, he excoriated the Republican Party in an hourlong speech on the Senate floor, saying that it was too willing to compromise, that pollsters had become more important than principles, that the party was frittering away the victory it won through the Reagan revolution. His denunciation infuriated party stalwarts, not least Jim Nicholson, the Republican National Committee chairman.
Now, his campaign out of money, the polls he so disdains showing him registering barely a blip even in New Hampshire, site of the first primary, Mr. Smith wants back in the Big Tent. Apparently unwilling to contemplate becoming the only independent in the Senate, Mr. Smith has been making overtures to party leaders. Perhaps more important, there is the lure of a significant committee chairmanship.
The senator said he would wait until today before discussing his intentions. But he acknowledged that when he appears at a news conference to announce them, Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, and other top Republicans will be at his side.
"Two and two makes four, doesn't it?" Mr. Smith said, inviting a visitor to draw his own conclusions. "Well, with the new math, it may not."
More later about the old values Mr. Smith holds dear, and why. For the moment, there are more pragmatic considerations.
THE death of Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island on Oct. 24 left vacant the top seat on the powerful Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. Mr. Smith is the next Republican in line -- that is, if he is welcomed back to the party, and if party leaders do not count his few months in the wilderness against his seniority.
Mr. Smith is known to have signaled his desire to return to the fold well before Mr. Chafee's death, which was unexpected. But has the anger against him cooled enough for him to be awarded the chairmanship?
If Republican leaders hold a grudge, they may give the post to Senator James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, who is next in seniority. (Unlike Mr. Chaffee, neither Mr. Smith nor Mr. Inhofe is considered an ally by environmentalists, although they rate Mr. Smith a bit friendlier to their cause.)
A big (6-foot-6), affable man, the senator, who grew up in New Jersey, told another story about grudges, or the lack thereof. A quarter-century ago, after leaving his job as a history teacher, he joined a real estate company.
But the economy was bad, and sales were slow, and Mr. Smith was fired. Nothing personal, his boss said.
Mr. Smith and his wife, Mary Jo, had a family to feed (they now have three grown children), so Mr. Smith borrowed some money and went into real estate on his own. The economy picked up. Mr. Smith prospered. After a while, his old boss's company was for sale. As it happened, so was his old boss's house. "I bought his business and his house, all in the same transaction," he said with a smile.
The real estate turnabout was not his life's defining moment. That came on March 28, 1945, two days before his fourth birthday, when his father, a naval aviator, was killed. Lt. Cmdr. Donald Smith had lived through combat in the Pacific only to die in a Navy plane crash back home. His wife, Margaret, never remarried.
Senator Smith, who served in the Navy in the Vietnam War, has only a hazy memory of his father. The senator's younger brother, Richard, has none at all. On the wall of the senator's office is a picture of his father shaking hands with Adm. Chester Nimitz.
Growing up without a father, wishing he had one, taught him what a gift life is, the senator said, and that is why he is among the most dedicated opponents of abortion.
And having felt the cost of war, he said he opposed sending Americans into harm's way unless doing so was clearly in the national interest. (He opposed American involvement in Bosnia in 1995 and Kosovo in 1998.)
Some of his most vivid memories are of cemeteries. His parents are buried in Arlington National Cemetery.
Then there was the visit he and his wife made to an American military cemetery in Italy a few years ago. They came upon the grave of an American soldier who was killed on May 29, 1944, the day the senator's wife was born.
Think of the sacrifice and the symbolism, the senator said with a catch in his voice, "He died so she could live free."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Robert C. Smith has dropped his independent run for president. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERT C (SEN); STOUT, DAVID TRENT LOTT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



6 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1819 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Runs on Both Change and Stability

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 31

 BODY:
After a recent campaign speech, Francisco Labastida Ochoa slid behind the wheel of a Chevrolet Suburban, roared onto a two-lane highway and accelerated to 100 miles per hour.
As Mr. Labastida, Mexico's leading presidential candidate, rocketed past a line of farm trucks, his chief bodyguard was four Suburbans back in the campaign convoy, clinging to the dashboard and shouting to his driver to try to keep up with the boss. 
 Mr. Labastida drives like a maniac. But his approach to politics is methodical and discreet. He has served six presidents in 37 years of public life and never rocked the boat.
Now as he seeks the governing party's nomination, in a primary election scheduled for Nov. 7, he is navigating with characteristic caution. His positions on economics, drugs, relations with the United States and other issues diverge sharply from those held by President Ernesto Zedillo.
Yet mindful that he needs the backing of the president's supporters to win the vote that could well choose Mexico's next president, he has portrayed himself as the candidate of stability rather than an agent of dramatic change.
Polls suggest that his strategy is working. After a sluggish start, Mr. Labastida has appeared to move out ahead of his closest rival, Roberto Madrazo Pintado, a populist former governor who cast himself as a maverick. But since this presidential primary is the party's first and turnout is difficult to forecast, predicting the winner is impossible.
A primary victory would leave Mr. Labastida on the doorstep of the presidency, because the opposition is divided and unlikely to overtake the governing party's candidate in the general election on July 2.
Even if he wins the primary, his biggest challenge may be preventing a rupture in the party, the Institutional Revolutionary Party, known by its acronym in Spanish as the PRI. The party is bitterly split between foreign-trained economists who have dominated Mexico's government for years and its old-guard politicians, who blame economic policies that have led to a drastic erosion in living standards for the PRI's decline.
Mr. Labastida is offering a unity program that promises something for both sides. For the economic technocrats, he vows to keep Mexico's deficit slender to prevent a financial crisis such as those that have followed every presidential succession since 1976. And to the old guard, he is promising to open the domestic spending spigot.
"Our first rule is, 'Don't risk a crisis,' " Mr. Labastida said, neatly daubing red chili on a shrimp taco during a meal aboard his executive jet. "But we're going to have more room to maneuver and to spend more freely. Our government won't have to concentrate on recovering from a devaluation. Instead we're going to be able to build."
He has promised to create a million jobs a year -- double the rate of the last three years -- by extending low-interest loans to small and mid-sized businesses, establishing tax-free investment zones, and especially by subsidizing the construction of low-cost homes; he wants to triple the current rate of housing starts.
To farmers, he has promised new subsidies for crops and a doubling of existing subsidies for those who buy new tractors and other equipment. Subsidies have been anathema among Mr. Zedillo's technocrats. He has also questioned the usefulness of further privatizations, a keystone of government policy since 1988.
"My main goal will be to generate jobs and recover social mobility," he said.
If his approach differs dramatically from Mr. Zedillo's, Mr. Labastida still appears to be running with the president's blessing. But how he got it remains murky.
"He was certainly not Zedillo's first choice," said Jorge Castaneda, the author of a book detailing how modern Mexican presidents have chosen their successors. "They have almost nothing in common." The Mexican president is limited to one six-year term.
At 57, Mr. Labastida is 10 years older than Mr. Zedillo, and they had never worked together before Mr. Zedillo made him his secretary of agriculture in 1995. Early in his presidency, Mr. Zedillo seemed to be grooming other potential successors. But after they fell victim to crises and left the cabinet, Mr. Zedillo last year promoted Mr. Labastida to head the powerful Interior Ministry, and a parade of PRI leaders began to praise him as a man who could unify the party, said Guillermo Ruiz de Teresa, Mr. Labastida's private secretary.
Mr. Labastida insisted that the announcement of his candidacy on May 18 came on his own initiative.
"Just before I resigned, I told the president I was being mentioned a lot as a potential candidate and that it was making my work as interior minister difficult," Mr. Labastida said. "Before that, we'd only joked about it. 'They mentioned you again,' the president would say. Phrases like that."
Most of the party establishment is backing Mr. Labastida, but the president, as recently as last week, said he had no favorite.
Some columnists have portrayed Mr. Labastida as a mediocre politician who is running strong only because he is "the official candidate." He has in fact received plenty of logistical support from state governors, leaders of PRI-controlled unions, farm organizations and neighborhood groups. But that backing also reflects two decades of patient spadework by Mr. Labastida.
"He's been building this candidacy for 20 years, forging alliances," said Jorge Montano, a former ambassador to the United States who has known Mr. Labastida for many years. "His detractors don't understand him, because he's tough to decipher. He's not a political elephant; he's a political cat. He has a great sense of smell. He operates in silence. He calculates his movements carefully. He's cautious, but he can be audacious."
Mr. Labastida appears most eager to show audacity in law enforcement. When he became Sinaloa's governor in 1987, the steamy coastal state was a big drug producer. He fired hundreds of corrupt police officers. In reprisal, gunmen assassinated several of his aides, including a former state attorney general.
Even his opponents acknowledge that his record contrasts with other PRI governors, who have grown wealthy by turning a blind eye to the drug trade.
"With Labastida, traffickers did not have the governor's collaboration," said Humberto Rice, who dealt with Governor Labastida as the opposition mayor of Mazatlan in Sinaloa.
Mr. Labastida likes to recall a 1990 investigation he led as governor into the slaughter of an entire family that chanced upon corrupt police officers unloading cocaine from an aircraft along a Sinaloa highway. Dishonest federal prosecutors initially sought to cover up the killings, he said. But as a result of his pressure, he said, six federal police were tried for murder and given long prison sentences.
What would he do as president to attack the problem? a reporter asked.
"Let's just say there will be war," he said.
Mr. Labastida would probably prove more assertive on behalf of national interests on other issues of importance to both Mexico and the United States. Unlike Mr. Zedillo, who attended Yale and speaks English fluently, Mr. Labastida studied economics at Mexico's National University, has never lived north of the border and speaks limited English. He is a vigorous nationalist.
Asked about relations with the United States, Mr. Labastida recalled the 1847 invasion of Mexico engineered by President James K. Polk, which brought 50,000 Mexican deaths and the loss of Mexican territories stretching from Texas to Oregon.
"Mexicans still mourn the dead from that war, but that shouldn't poison our future," he said. "We need a relationship that benefits both nations."
He wants to widen the North American Free Trade Agreement. As Mexico's ambassador to Portugal in 1993, he studied the half century of negotiations that have eroded borders in Europe. "With Nafta, we've only touched on trade and investment flows," he said. "I'd push to broaden the treaty into new areas."
Immigration is one. "We need an agreement for temporary workers, something like we have with Canada," he said, referring to an accord that allowed 7,000 Mexican agricultural workers to work there legally this year.
His vow to seek a better deal for migrant workers fits Mr. Labastida's campaign slogan, "Make Power Serve People." As part of this thrust, his image makers are distributing a comic-book biography of him entitled, "An Exemplary Life."
"Never expose yourself to the shame of taking a single peso dishonestly," his father, a country doctor, lectures young Francisco on a page portraying his boyhood.
His opponents have not challenged this version of events, although there was skepticism over his recent assertion that his personal wealth, including the value of a weekend home in Morelos state, totals just $700,000.
"I know nobody believes it," Mr. Labastida said. "But my objective in life hasn't been to amass a fortune." He said he relinquished most of his assets in a 1986 divorce, and a top aide added that he is supporting a daughter born outside of his marriage. His second wife is Maria Teresa Uriarte, a distinguished Mexican historian.
In this campaign, in which the PRI is trying to cast off its reputation for back-room deals and vote fraud, his campaign offers a revisionist version of his 1986 election for governor by portraying him as a pioneer for democracy because he "proposed using transparent ballot boxes" to ensure honesty.
But participants recalled the balloting as blatantly unfair. The PRI authorities used vast government resources on Mr. Labastida's behalf, and thousands of ballots marked for the main opposition candidate, Manuel Clouthier del Rincon, a vegetable grower, were later found in the trash. Mr. Labastida won with 69 percent of the vote.
Mr. Clouthier cried fraud, and demonstrators delivered a coffin labeled "the Death of Democracy" to Mr. Labastida's Sinaloa home. After Mr. Labastida took office, peasants controlled by the PRI occupied Mr. Clouthier's lands, a time-honored PRI tactic against its enemies.
Manuel Clouthier Carrillo, the candidate's son, who publishes Sinaloa's opposition newspaper, offered a description that contrasts with the charming image Mr. Labastida projects to others: "He's a man who bears a grudge."
But many PRI leaders have also benefited from vote fraud. When Mr. Zedillo took office in 1994, he appeared embarrassed by the party's authoritarian legacy, and he infuriated many party members with his vow to put "healthy distance" between the presidency and his party.
Mr. Labastida has vowed to re-establish a "healthy proximity" with the PRI. That sounds good to the leaders of the old guard, who are often called dinosaurs because of their resistance to change.
"This dinosaur, as they call him, has a young heart and can be renewed and can change," Mr. Labastida said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Francisco Labastida Ochoa, speaking at a rally in Mexico City, is seeking the presidential nomination of Mexico's ruling party in its Nov. 7 primary. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); JOB CREATION (61%); DEVALUATION (60%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM; LABASTIDA OCHOA, FRANCISCO; MADRAZO PINTADO, ROBERTO (GOV); ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO (PRES) FRANCISCO LABASTIDA OCHOA (96%); ERNESTO ZEDILLO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



7 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1839 words

HEADLINE: Reseeding Ivy: Columbia on Comeback Trail From Troubles

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Columbia University is on a roll.
The university, which during the 1970's and 80's was struggling with a declining reputation and flat alumni giving, has edged out Yale as the third-most selective Ivy League college, after Harvard and Princeton. 
 Last year it raised nearly $400 million in gifts -- behind only Harvard and Stanford. And Columbia is collecting more money from its patents and royalties than any American university. Even the normally testy relations with its Morningside Heights neighbors have turned adulatory. And to cap it all, Robert A. Mundell, a Columbia economics professor, won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics last month, Columbia's third Nobel in four years.
This is clearly a good time for most elite universities. Applications are pouring in. Donors are lining up. And some of Columbia's good fortune clearly stems from New York City's prosperity and rising reputation, which have inflated applications to other local colleges.
But Columbia seems to be particularly blessed. Last year, the university fielded a record 13,012 applications to its undergraduate college and accepted just 13.6 percent of them -- fewer than one in seven. As recently as the 1980's, Columbia was forced to take nearly half of its applicants to keep its classrooms filled.
Once one of the richest and most admired institutions of higher learning -- home to the critic Lionel Trilling, the poet Allen Ginsberg and the physicist I. I. Rabi, among others -- Columbia, by the 1970's, had slid. Its students still spilled off the Renaissance-style campus into the bookstores and bars lining Broadway, signaling the presence of a world-renowned university at 116th Street on the edge of Harlem, and it still held sway as one of the city's largest employers, real estate owners and research institutions.
But internally, things had soured. Alumni were dismayed by the violent student takeovers of five buildings in 1968, aimed at stopping its expansion into Morningside Park, and many stopped giving money. Respected faculty members were bailing out. And students sought safer havens than financially strapped, crime-ridden New York.
Columbia's resurgence now shows not just the benefits of being in the right place at the right time but also the payoff from careful management of a $1.5 billion institution that is as much a business as an ivory tower.
George Rupp, Columbia's preacher-turned-president, who served as dean of Harvard's Divinity School and president of Rice University before joining Columbia in 1993, has proved to be an attentive manager and a careful strategist as well as a nonstop fund-raiser, many Columbia insiders say.
"Rupp is watching the store," said Kenneth T. Jackson, a renowned professor of history and the social sciences, who was on the search committee that chose Mr. Rupp.
Stephen Friedman, chairman of Columbia's trustees, likens Mr. Rupp to John F. Welch Jr., the hard-driving chief executive of General Electric Corporation, who insists that each of his businesses be among the best in their fields.
"George is a guy who very aggressively wants to be excellent and outstanding in every area he is in," said Mr. Friedman, a Columbia Law School graduate and former co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs.
Outside the university, too, Mr. Rupp is perceived as a strong manager who has helped raise Columbia's stature. Although it is still generally not thought of as part of the fabled trio of Harvard, Yale and Princeton, in some respects it is now seen as nipping at their heels.
"Columbia has ascended nationally and among its peers," said Kay Hanson, executive director of the Consortium on Financing Higher Education, a group that includes Columbia and 30 other elite colleges and universities.
The son of German immigrants, Mr. Rupp, 57, brought an Ivy League pedigree (Princeton undergraduate, doctorate in theology from Harvard) and a long record as an administrator. A tall, gangly man with a preppy look, he is more determined than charismatic.
The Rupp touch is evident in many ways: He has improved operations at a university that had a reputation for loose -- some say sloppy -- management. He has increased revenues by expanding the number of tuition-paying undergraduates, stepping up fund-raising and squeezing greater profits out of the university's intellectual properties -- from biomedical patents to new media projects. And he has polished and expanded the physical plant at a time when first impressions count mightily.
Mr. Rupp has also placed new emphasis on the undergraduate college, the smallest in the Ivy League, with about 3,400 students when he arrived.
"The first thing I did was to insist that the college should be at the heart of the university, and that the other schools had to overcome their fortress mentality," he explained in an interview in his neat, ornate office in Low Library overlooking Columbia's quadrangle. "In American higher education, the way John or Mary Q. Public establishes a hierarchy of quality is by an appraisal of the undergraduate unit and how hard it is to get in."
Detractors say the growth in the number of students at the college -- now 3,850 -- has not yet been matched by a similar rise in modern classrooms or in the number of faculty members, and that more graduate students are being used to teach.
"I would rate my experience over all as very good, but there is mediocrity lurking, in bad professors and unspectacular graduate students" said J. J. Lando, a senior from West Orange, N.J., who is triple-majoring in philosophy, physics and mathematics. "There has been a fair amount of student backlash over overcrowding of classes," he added.
Columbia says that when it finishes renovations, there will be more appropriately sized classrooms. And it has introduced fellowships to attract more professors to teach its celebrated core curriculum, anchored by contemporary civilization and humanities literature -- interdisciplinary courses grounded in Western classics. Graduate students, who are only supposed to teach about a third of the seminar-style classes, now cover about 40 percent of the sections.
While most students who were queried said they had not met Mr. Rupp, most said they were quite happy. Mr. Rupp's strategies, in short, seem to have paid off. Last year, Standard & Poor's added Columbia to its short elite list of triple-A universities, citing its $2 billion capital campaign, its diversified revenue stream and its effective planning and budgeting process.
Michael I. Sovern, Columbia's president from 1980 to 1993, is widely credited with laying the foundation for today's renaissance by selling the land that the university owned beneath Rockefeller Center and putting it into higher-yielding investments; doubling the application pool by going coeducational; conducting a major capital campaign to replenish the university's endowment, and expanding the school's housing.
But while the Columbia that Mr. Sovern left for Mr. Rupp was greatly improved, it was still not flying. And as the 1990's progressed, Columbia officials looked enviously at the buzz surrounding New York University, their downtown rival.
When Mr. Rupp arrived, he overhauled the central administration -- keeping the provost, Jonathan R. Cole, but recruiting most of his other close aides from outside the university. He picked Emily Lloyd, Sanitation Commissioner under Mayors David N. Dinkins and Rudolph W. Giuliani, as his executive vice president for administration. He lured John Masten from the New York Public Library to be executive vice president of finance. And he brought in Alan Stone from the Clinton White House to run public affairs.
Academically, Mr. Rupp focused on shifting the balance between graduate students and undergraduates and encouraged aggressive hiring to restore the reputations of weak departments.
Still, the college sometimes seemed like an afterthought in a university of 20,000 students that was best known for its graduate and professional schools in areas like law, medicine, journalism, business and the liberal arts.
Columbia is expanding the college by more than 15 percent (to about 4,000 undergraduates) to make it a higher-profile part of the university and to bring in additional revenue. (With tuition and fees at more than $32,000 a student, an extra 500 students adds up to more than $16 million annually.)
At the same time, it hopes to downsize the graduate program, freeing more faculty time for undergraduates.
The most visible sign of the new attention to undergraduates is the investment in new buildings and renovations. With the help of large donors, Columbia has sunk $85 million into an architecturally arresting new student center and has spent heavily to renovate Butler Library, undergraduate dormitories and the gymnasium. A new residence hall, at 113th Street and Broadway, is scheduled to be completed next fall.
Columbia is also trying to rebuild departments that had slipped, like anthropology, for which it hired six new faculty members, mostly from top-ranked University of Michigan.
Its effort to stage a similarly bold move in economics, however, backfired, when Robert J. Barro, a prominent economist at Harvard, decided at the last minute not to come. But this year, it hired 10 new economists, including young professors from Princeton and Harvard, for the department, which is the most popular major among undergraduates.
Under the executive vice provost, Michael M. Crow, Columbia has also tried to squeeze as much income from its research and other intellectual property as possible. Last year, it brought in nearly $100 million.
Columbia is taking a similar hands-on approach to relations with the community. As the largest property owner in the area, the university has long been regarded by many as the enemy; the decision to build a gym in Morningside Park touched off the 1968 protests.
Columbia now consults more with the community about its construction plans. Maritta Dunn, chairwoman of Community Board 9, which encompasses the university, said that when the community protested the university's plans to condemn a building at 116th Street and Riverside Drive, the university said it would re-examine its plans.
"Five years is too short to turn around 30 or 40 years of bad blood," Ms. Dunn said, "but the current powers that be are really trying."
Columbia still has much left to do. Student satisfaction surveys, for instance, show some improved ratings, but they are still only fair to middling. Its $3.6 billion endowment is less than a third the size of Harvard's and smaller than those of its other main competitors, leaving Columbia more dependent on tuition and with a shallower pocket for financial aid.
Then there is the critical question of how attractive Columbia will remain if New York City's current popularity cools. Professor Jackson, editor of "The Encyclopedia of New York City," speculates that even if there is a downturn, many students will continue to come.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: More Applicants"
A rise in the number of applicants has caused Columbia University's admision rate to shrink from 47 percent in 1980 to 14 percent in 1999. Graph tracks number of applications to the university, since 1977. (Source: Columbia University)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; PHILANTHROPY COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ALUMNI (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); HISTORY (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (73%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); PATENTS (71%); BOOKSTORES (64%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W ALLEN GINSBERG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



8 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Running Huge Risks

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Americans are unaware that Congress and the president have just agreed to put us all at extraordinary financial and personal risk.
Senate Banking Chairman Phil Gramm has struck a deal with Clinton Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers to knock down all fire walls between banks, insurance companies and brokerage houses. Global financiers are given the green light for ever-greater concentrations of power. 
 Few remember the reason for those fire walls: to curtail the spread of the sort of panic from one financial segment to another that helped lead to the Great Depression. But today's lust for global giantism has swept aside the voices of prudence; generous financial lobbies have persuaded our leaders that in enormous size there is strength.
Not everyone has forgotten the adage of "the bigger they come, the harder they fall." In a little-noticed speech to bankers about the need for oversight of the growing "appetite for risk," Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said that megabanks are becoming "complex entities that create the potential for unusually large systemic risks in the national and international economy should they fail."
Fail? That's a word that has been all but stricken from mergermania's vocabulary. It can only be used in the phrase "too big to fail" -- where the American taxpayer would have to bail out a failing multitentacled financial network lest it sink the whole jerry-built global edifice. A few of us have no appetite for assuming that risk -- which would be 10 times as costly as the 80's S.&L. debacle.
But that's just a monetary risk that, come hard-to-imagine hard times, would wipe out a decade's projected surplus. More irreversible is a greater risk that we are assuming this month -- the much more imminent risk to our private lives.
We have already seen the veil over our health records ripped away. The feckless G.O.P. Congress tossed that hot potato to Clinton, who caved to the insurance and hospital lobbies. The key word is consent. Instead of requiring written permission from patients before confidential health records are shopped to drug marketers or shown to prospective employers, Clinton's phony "controls" put patients and doctors at a disadvantage.
As for financial privacy, the Gramm-Summers sellout makes your bank account everybody's business. You will hear much huffing and puffing about privacy protection as the fire walls are torn down, especially about allowing you to object after the fact to the handing-around of your personal records, like a plate of cookies, to other companies.
Here's the catch: What happens when those "outside companies" are not outside at all -- but are part of one great big family of broker-banking-insurance services? Then, without your consent, the private information you write on your mortgage application, with your tax return attached, goes to your insurance company, which already has your health history -- and its snoops can also see your investment behavior and what you've been buying with your credit cards.
Under Gramm-Summers, giant financial conglomerates -- using other surveillance to protect against fraud -- will know more about your money habits, your assets, your diseases and your genetic makeup than your spouse or paramour does, and probably more than you do.
And just as he has done with his health-privacy "protection," Mr. Clinton will sign the bipartisan legislation, leaving you naked to any prying eyes with an Orwellian statement about how this protects your privacy.
Listen for the word consent. Listen for the word permission. You won't hear them, because that puts the expensive obligation on the marketers and snoops to seek your consent and alert you to their intrusion.
Instead, you will hear malarkey about how you will have control. That code word means that you must search for invasions of your privacy from punch-this-number telephone-answering computers and impenetrable bureaucracies. Some "control."
Sheer size rules. We look to government either to regulate monopoly or enforce competition. But as we have deregulated to let the free market operate, government has failed to enforce antitrust laws to maintain competition in media and now in money.
Today's result: mergermania, dangerous concentration of financial risk, and the even greater risk to that part of our freedom we call privacy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: G O P CONGRESS (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: G O P CONGRESS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; INSURANCE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); APPROVALS (72%); BONDS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) PHIL GRAMM (89%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



9 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: In Brooklyn, Neighbors Balk at a Baseball Plan

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE 

 BODY:
The idea was to turn a sandlot near Prospect Park in Brooklyn into a site fit for minor league baseball, to bring professional ball back to the borough 43 years after the Dodgers left.
The multimillion-dollar playing field at the Parade Grounds, opposite the southern edge of the park, would be constructed as a stand-in until a permanent stadium was built in Coney Island. Then it would be left to the city's young players, offering a grand forum for the development of their own baseball dreams. 
 But this city proposal has run into opposition from many of those it is said to benefit, with users angry over the potential loss of what has turned into a popular spot for soccer and other sports. Residents of Flatbush and other surrounding areas have been circulating petitions calling for more community input into the plan, and local officials have been offering proposals of their own.
Their general complaint is not a new one for City Hall: the stadium's opponents say the Giuliani administration has acted unilaterally in deciding what team to woo to the borough and has kept mum on the details.
"The administration has not been forthcoming with any information despite our repeated written requests for it," said Alvin Berk, chairman of Community Board 14, in Flatbush. "Right now we have no idea how big the field will be, what it will look like, how traffic will be handled and what it means to all the other users of the park.
"We've heard a lot of concerns from residents," he said, "but haven't been given enough information from the administration to even take a vote on the proposal ourselves."
Repeated calls over three days to officials with the city's Economic Development Corporation and the Parks Department produced no details. Bruce Brodoff, a spokesman for the agency, finally said, "There is nothing to say because everything is still in negotiations.
"There are a lot of things that go into this and things can change," he added. "It wouldn't pay to put out a press release."
Edward Skyler, a Parks Department spokesman, floated the idea six months ago, saying that the city would spend $3 million to build the playing field and a 3,000-seat temporary grandstand. At the time, he said that after a 38-game season next summer, the Mets farm team would move to a proposed $20 million stadium in Coney Island that would seat 6,500 people. That would leave the field for tournament-level high school and sandlot games.
Mr. Skyler's comments came after the city had already announced a $2 million plan to upgrade the Parade Grounds, saying the money would be used to build a football field, to refurbish some soccer grounds and to rebuild two baseball diamonds. The notoriously bad drainage and watering systems at the 40-acre site were also to be redesigned.
But if the Mets plan goes through as initially described, it appears that at least two fields will be lost to general use and a third will be taken over for parking, at least temporarily.
Angered by what he sees as the administration's recalcitrance in disclosing its plan, the Brooklyn borough president, Howard Golden, has scheduled a public meeting of the borough's board for today. Mr. Golden's office said the special session at 6 p.m. in Borough Hall was called to force the administration to meet with the community, adding that officials with the Economic Development Corporation and the Parks Department had been invited to speak.
The city officials are likely to be met by a barrage of questions, from why the administration chose a short-season Mets farm team for the site to how other uses for the fields will be curtailed, particularly the youth soccer games now held at the Parade Grounds.
For the last several months, Mr. Golden has accused the Giuliani administration of not acting in the best interests of Brooklyn on the deal. He has said that the administration's refusal to consider other minor league ball clubs is short-sighted, and that a higher-level team -- playing a full season instead of the shorter Single A summer schedule -- will bring more money to the borough and more fans to the games.
In the meantime, parents whose children now play soccer, lacrosse or other field games on the Parade Grounds fear that they will be squeezed out. And those living around the Parade Grounds worry that problems with securing a stadium site in Coney Island will leave the farm team playing in their neighborhood permanently -- bringing with it traffic, unruly fans and parking problems.
Mostly, those opposing the plan say they just want some input before the city's Franchise and Concession Review Committee votes on the plan in two weeks.
"This is a big thing for everyone involved in the Parade Grounds and we really deserved to hear the facts about what's being proposed," said Howard Helene, whose 9-year-old son has grown up playing on the fields. "Maybe this is a good thing for the park but because of the way it's been handled, nobody really knows."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A proposal to build a minor league baseball field on the Parade Grounds near Prospect Park in Brooklyn would displace a number of youth soccer programs. And neighbors worry about other potential problems, too. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: PARKS DEPARTMENT (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARKS DEPARTMENT (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BROOKLYN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STADIUMS; MINOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); SOCCER (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PETITIONS (70%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: ROANE, KIT R HOWARD GOLDEN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



10 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: A Plan to Rebuild Bridges Widens Gap on Aid to Serbs

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS 

DATELINE: BUCHAREST, Romania, Oct. 26

 BODY:
Over strong American and British opposition, France and Germany are backing a European Union plan to aid Yugoslavia by building a temporary bridge over the Danube and clearing the wrecks of the bridges bombed by NATO earlier this year.
Under the plan, the European Union would provide $25 million and the technical means to haul away debris of three bombed bridges at Novi Sad, Serbia's second-largest city, which block traffic on Europe's longest river. The plan would include sending an old dismantled Danube bridge now stored near Vienna and temporarily installing it at Novi Sad. 
 European officials and experts involved in the negotiations, some of whom attended a conference here led by Patriarch Bartholomew of the Eastern Orthodox Church, said that details were being worked out and that the money was available.
If approved, aid is likely to cause new friction between Europe and the United States, which has argued it would violate sanctions that prohibit economic assistance and trade with the government of President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia.
Washington's backing is important because the Americans can best assess whether there is still unexploded ordnance on the river bed, and, if so, how to clear it.
The United States and its European allies have already clashed over how best to isolate and weaken Mr. Milosevic. Washington objects to a European plan to send heating oil to two Serbian cities, Nis and Pirot, that are controlled by Mr. Milosevic's opponents. The shipments are to start in mid-November.
Washington argues that Mr. Milosevic could use assistance to his advantage; the Europeans, led by France and Germany, counter that an American policy that envisages a cold and hungry population ousting Mr. Milosevic is too tough on ordinary people, and unlikely to succeed.
In the case of the bridges, there are other practical concerns: blockage of the Danube is crippling shipping and trade along the 1,800-mile waterway, which links 10 countries. There are also fears of flooding.
"Freeing this great European river has important practical and financial consequences for all the Europeans who live on its banks, but most significantly for the people of Romania and Bulgaria," Patriarch Bartholomew said in a letter appealing for European Union aid after he traveled through the region.
Losses in trade and shipping revenues, estimated at some $200 million, have had the most impact in the poorest countries, notably Bulgaria, Romania and Ukraine, where hundreds of barges lie idle and some shipping companies have laid off half their workers.
"Moving cargo like coal, iron ore or wheat is four to five times cheaper by river," said Anatoli Georgiev, a director of the Ukrainian Danubian Shipping Company, which he said has had to let go many dockworkers and boat crews.
There is almost no traffic on the Danube, normally bustling. At Galati, a Romanian port, several boat captains said they had not worked for four months.
Under a treaty regulating traffic on the Danube, Mr. Milosevic's government is obliged to clear obstacles from the river, or let others do so. But Serbia says the wrecked bridges can be cleared only if the West pays for and builds three new bridges.
Even if agreement is reached, it is unclear whether work can be done before winter. The Danube is low now, which will ease the clearing work. Once frost sets in, work would be impossible, experts say, and the river would close until next year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); SERBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); ROMANIA (94%); UKRAINE (92%); GERMANY (90%); AUSTRIA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BULGARIA (74%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); FRANCE; GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; DANUBE RIVER; EUROPE (99%); SERBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); ROMANIA (94%); UKRAINE (92%); GERMANY (90%); AUSTRIA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BULGARIA (74%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RIVERS (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (69%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (67%); UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE (66%); HEATING OIL (65%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (59%); RELIGION (54%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); SIMONS, MARLISE SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



11 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Parties Closer Than They Seem In Budget Fight

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
As President Clinton and the Republican-controlled Congress begin final budget negotiations this week, the combative debate and expected vetoes obscure a fundamental reality: the two sides have only modest differences over how much to spend.
The talks nonetheless could still take some time. A handful of high-profile policy disputes remain over such issues as the environment, education, the payment of back dues to the United Nations, and other foreign policy questions. And the Democrats, who are accustomed to making political gains when budget talks drag out, are stepping up their criticisms. 
 "We continue to be haunted by the agenda of the extremist wing of the Republican Party, stuck in the Gingrich past," Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, said recently, trying to tie Republicans once again to a speaker who resigned after the last election.
But step by step, across the last few months, the Republican Congress has moved toward Mr. Clinton. Republican leaders quickly abandoned their drive for a $792 billion tax cut after the president vetoed the legislation. And over the summer, Republicans quietly gave up on their promise to adhere to the stringent limits on spending set in the balanced-budget agreement of 1997.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found last week that the Republicans were spending nearly $31 billion more than the $580 billion target set in July as necessary to stay within the limits.
Perhaps there is no better example of the sea change than in education. In a spending bill covering an array of programs including education, the Republicans have included $300 million more for the Education Department than Mr. Clinton requested. The bill is set for Senate passage this week and then a certain veto by the president, who still objects to the measure for a variety of reasons, including the fact that the education money does not go to his own signature initiatives.
Even after the Republicans' last-minute 1 percent across-the-board cut to government agencies is factored in, the Republicans would still be allotting $37.1 billion for education, the same level proposed by Mr. Clinton.
The president himself said recently about education: "The big issue in Washington now is more on how we spend the money. I mean, I've been fighting for four or five years on whether to spend adequate amounts of money. Now we're fighting about how to spend it."
Another telling moment came when the National Republican Congressional Committee, the House Republicans' campaign arm, churned out press releases this month attacking seven Democrats from traditionally competitive districts. The Democrats were assailed not, as might have been expected, for being big spenders, but for opposing spending projects by voting against a bill financing the Interior Department.
"In all my years in Congress this is a first: a member of Congress actually voting against a project that would have benefited his own district," Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority whip, was quoted in each release as saying.
What all this suggests is that if there is the political will for a compromise, a deal could be struck reasonably quickly. Mr. Clinton and the Republicans are still fighting over 5 of the 13 annual spending bills.
"If we could get the political bull gravy out of this debate, we could solve all the remaining dollar problems in about three days," Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin, said in floor debate last week. "We are not that far apart."
The White House, however, has been trying hard to play down any expectation that a compromise is in sight. "I think people are thinking it's all easier than it is," said Jacob J. Lew, Mr. Clinton's budget director, insisting that the president had several important initiatives he wanted put in place.
Some Democrats acknowledge privately that they do not want a quick solution. In years past, the Democrats have been able to use the budget fight to portray the Republicans as hostile to popular retirement and education programs or as irresponsible partisans who would shut down the government.
The Republicans' spending bills have made this line of attack much more difficult this year. But Democrats are still trying to focus on those differences that remain, particularly by denouncing as "mindless" the Republicans' resorting to a 1 percent across-the-board cut.
In fact, many of the final points of contention have less to do with dollars than with policy.
Mr. Clinton objects to a bill for the Interior Department because of several riders objected to by environmentalists. They include provisions that pave the way for more logging in national forests, keep oil companies from having to pay fair market royalties for drilling on public land and allow companies that mine on federal land to leave behind waste.
When he vetoed another bill for the Commerce, State and Justice Departments, Mr. Clinton listed many objections. Most significant, the bill provided only a fraction of the money he requested for 50,000 new community police officers. It did not include language giving the federal government more powers to fight hate crimes. And it did not free up money to pay dues to the United Nations.
Other foreign policy issues concern the Republicans' failure so far to provide money for the Wye River peace accords in the Mideast and for helping with disarmament in the former Soviet Union.
The most intractable fight could well come over education, because each party wants to run in 2000 as a champion of schools. The struggle is not over money but over whose policy initiative is adopted.
Mr. Clinton wants another down payment on his program to put 100,000 new teachers in classrooms across the nation. Republicans, who argue that schools are a local issue, want states left flexible to use federal education money for whatever purpose they chose.
"I wouldn't treat things like education language and U.N. arrears as insignificant issues," Mr. Lew said.
The partisan animosities have been made more strained by the Republicans' stance on Social Security. Democrats and Republicans alike began promising this year to end the longstanding practice of drawing on tax revenues that are supposed to finance Social Security to pay for other programs. But that has proved difficult because both parties want to spend too much on other programs.
Still, Republicans contend that their spending bills protect Social Security. And House Republicans are running television commercials accusing the Democrats of wanting to use Social Security reserves for "big government" programs.
Democrats, stung by the advertisements, have seized on a report by the Congressional Budget Office showing that once fiscal gimmicks and creative accounting techniques are discounted, the Republicans' spending bills might well use up an estimated $17 billion in Social Security revenue. Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader, said Senate Democrats would soon begin running their own commercials to counter the Republicans.
Fiscal analysts say there is a way that the Republicans' claims that they are protecting Social Security reserves could prove true -- if the economy does better across the next year than is now projected.
Republican leaders are gambling that as has been the case in the last three years, estimates of revenue will prove low, and the government will bring in more tax revenue in the fiscal year than expected. If that happens, the federal surplus will be larger than is now forecast, and federal spending would most likely not dip into Social Security reserves.
But if the economy does not prove as robust, the Republicans could be left in next year's campaign season trying to explain away official figures, traditionally released in October, that could show that Social Security reserves were not left untouched.
"They're betting the ranch," said Representative Charles W. Stenholm, Democrat of Texas, "that the economy is going to get better, not worse." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VETOES (US); TAXATION BUDGETS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



12 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: For Election Day, Ho-Hum Races, but a Rare Bit of Hope for Nassau Democrats

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: MINEOLA, N.Y., Oct. 31

 BODY:
For the first time in a generation, Democratic candidates in Nassau County are looking forward to Election Day with gusto.
Nassau's renowned Republican machine has had a lock on county government since politicians wore crewcuts. But a fiscal crisis that produced a $300 million deficit this year and prompted a steep property-tax increase over the weekend has made this otherwise prosperous suburb seem an aberration in an age of widespread budget surpluses. And it has turned Tuesday's elections for the Nassau Legislature into some of the most competitive and closely watched contests in the New York region. 
 As off-year elections go, this year's are further off than most. In New Jersey, in the absence of a major statewide issue, the races for 80 Assembly seats are expected to draw a record low turnout. In Connecticut, a state record 40 percent of the candidates for mayor or first selectman face no opposition or only nominal opposition, the mayors of Hartford and New Haven among them.
And in suburban and upstate New York, state politicians say next year's presidential and United States Senate races overshadow several local contests this week. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Hillary Rodham Clinton have both made recent appearances on behalf of candidates in close mayoral races upstate -- Mr. Giuliani in Troy, on behalf of Carmella R. Mantello, a Republican who is trying to unseat Mark Pattison despite the Democrats' 3-to-2 edge in enrollments, and Mrs. Clinton in Schenectady, where a Democratic city councilman, Gary McCarthy, is challenging the incumbent Republican, Albert Jurczynski.
In Erie County, the strongest Democratic area in western New York, the race for county executive has drawn the attention of national Republican and Democratic officials in recent weeks. In most statewide elections, a victory in Erie is essential for a Democratic candidate. But despite a Democratic enrollment edge of 100,000 voters, the incumbent, Dennis T. Gorski, has struggled in his race for a fourth term against the Republican challenger, Joel A. Giambra. Mr. Giambra, the city comptroller in Buffalo and a former Democrat who switched parties last year to endorse Gov. George E. Pataki and former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, held a commanding lead until this weekend, when a new poll by The Buffalo News showed the race up for grabs.
In Nassau County, however, local politics, for the first time in memory, have galvanized the two major parties and excited voters.
This year began with a series of embarrassing scandals, from soaring cost overruns in a county health insurance plan to revelations of widespread brutality by guards in the county jail that followed the beating death of an inmate. But it was the county's ailing finances in a time of economic plenty that gave Democrats an issue that aroused Nassau's wealthy residents.
For years, the county executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, had held property taxes to a minimum while allowing county expenses to rise quickly; he closed the widening gap each year by selling assets and taking other one-time steps to produce revenue. But after several large asset sales failed to materialize on time late in 1998 and early this year, Nassau suddenly found itself with a $300 million deficit. Wall Street rating agencies, which had threatened for months to lower their rating of the county's bonds, made good with a vengeance, dropping Nassau's debt rating two notches to a level just above junk.
Mr. Gulotta is not up for re-election until 2001. But the Republican legislators, who now hold a veto-proof 14-to-5 majority, are all up in Tuesday's elections. So, while Democratic candidates attacked Republican incumbents for approving Mr. Gulotta's budgets, the Republican lawmakers attacked their fellow Republican, Mr. Gulotta. They passed laws that significantly reduced his power to incur deficits. They shredded his proposed 2000 budget and vowed to rewrite it entirely. And, although they loudly claimed credit for cutting patronage jobs, most of the positions they threw out turned out to be those of clerks and officials seen as more loyal to Mr. Gulotta than to the party.
Despite making good on a promise to cut more than $40 million in spending, however, the Republican lawmakers, led by the presiding officer of the Legislature, Bruce A. Blakeman of Woodmere, find themselves in the unenviable position of having to defend a series of tax increases in the face of Democratic opposition.
In August, they enacted a 1 percent tax on real estate sales that they said would raise $50 million a year, but which Democrats immediately charged would unfairly penalize the elderly and others selling their homes. Finally, shortly after 1 a.m. on Saturday, they passed a budget that includes a 9.4 percent property tax increase.
The fiscal troubles seemed perfectly timed for Democrats, who rallied behind a new chairman, Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli of Great Neck, last spring. Suddenly, and for the first time after years of petty infighting, the party's crop of challengers and its incumbents began speaking as if with one voice. And despite a vast financial disadvantage -- Republicans expect to spend $1.2 million on the legislative races, about four times as much as Democrats -- officials in both parties say four Republican seats could be in jeopardy.
In Roosevelt and Uniondale, Patrick Williams, who lost a three-way race in 1997, is challenging the incumbent, Darlene Harris. In Rockville Centre and Baldwin, Joseph Scannell, a former prosecutor who quit the Republican Party in disgust in June, is challenging Thomas A. Glynn. In Merrick, a Democratic lawyer, David Denenberg, is challenging Edward Ward, the third-ranking Republican legislator and a former aide to Mr. Gulotta. And in Long Beach and the Five Towns, Jeffrey Toback, another lawyer, is challenging Mr. Blakeman. Democrats also believe that Brian Muellers, a former aide to Mayor Thomas Suozzi of Glen Cove, could win his race against Legislator John Canning, if Mr. Suozzi is re-elected Tuesday by a wide margin.
Gaining just two seats would give Democrats the power to block the county from issuing bonds, a crucial bit of leverage; five seats -- an almost unimaginable outcome -- would give the Democrats a 10-to-9 majority.
As in most races around the region, turnout is expected to be light. But Mr. DiNapoli said today that the mix of voters could produce surprising results. "The key dynamic is whether Republicans who are frustrated about things stay home as a protest," he said. "If they do, and independents swing our way, and Democrats come out in significant numbers, that's a recipe for significant change."
Turnout is also expected to be extremely light in New Jersey, where the 80 seats in the State Assembly are up for election, but where the paucity of important and clear-cut issues has many experts predicting that voter participation could reach a new low.
"People aren't even unhappy about auto insurance anymore, which is unheard of in New Jersey," said Gerald M. Pomper, a political science professor at Rutgers University. "To get people to vote you need a little bit of an incentive. But there's nothing driving people now, other than their sense of civic duty."
Democrats would need to win nine seats to regain a majority, but most political strategists expect incumbents to win in at least 70 races.
The most fiercely contested race is in the Fourth District, in and around Camden, where Democrats have campaigned aggressively against the two Republican Assemblymen, Gerald Luongo and George Geist. But groups representing gun owners have rallied to defend the two, providing volunteers and telephone banks to urge thousands of gun owners in the district to turn out on Election Day.
In Connecticut, many people might reasonably assume that their votes will make little difference Tuesday.
In Hartford, the state capital, Mayor Michael Peters is unchallenged. In New Haven, Mayor John DeStefano Jr. faces two candidates who made it onto the ballot by gathering petitions but lack any party's backing. In Plainfield, only two candidates are on the ballot for the three-member Board of Selectmen, meaning that the write-in candidate with the most votes will win.
"If the trend continues, of course, it could be a terrible thing," said Sandy Astarita, a Republican town chairwoman in New Haven. "But it is also a mistake to enter token opposition. Fielding no candidate is more honest with the party and the public."
In Westchester County, the most closely watched election will be for the 17-member county Board of Legislators, which two years ago switched from Republican to Democratic control for the first time, and by a single seat. Making the race even more important is that the party that controls the board will be in office when election districts are redrawn after the 2000 census; historically, those boundaries are drawn to help the dominant party's candidates.
In an unusual race in Rockland County, incumbents are running against incumbents on the county Legislature, in the first election since a court order in 1997 led to a redistricting that reduced the number of seats to 17 from 21.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ERIE, PA, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: BUFFALO NEWS (52%); NEW YORK (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ERIE, PA, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); SUBURBS (76%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); TAX LAW (71%); PRISONS (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



13 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: THE CRASH OF EGYPTAIR 990: THE PLANE;
An Aircraft With a Good Record, but a Carrier With Security Failures in Its Past

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
The Egyptair Boeing 767 that crashed this morning was a relatively new model with a good safety record, operated by an airline with extensive international experience and relatively few operational problems, although some horrible security failures.
The plane was delivered new to Egyptair almost exactly 10 years ago, on Sept. 26, 1989, and had completed about 6,900 flights, covering about 30,000 flight hours since then -- about normal for a long-range plane of that age. 
 Egyptair operated five 767's, including the plane that crashed. It was one of its two extended-range 767-300's, the newest version produced by Boeing; it could fly 7,080 miles nonstop, putting Cairo well within range of New York.
Egyptair is one of the world's oldest airlines, tracing its operations to 1933. It is owned by the government and a candidate for privatization under a new policy of economic liberalization.
In the 1970's, when Egypt was allied with the Soviet Union, it acquired a fleet of Ilyushins and other Russian jets; now it flies Boeings and Airbuses. The airline said its planes are an average of six years old, which would make it one of the youngest fleets in the industry.
But Egyptair has frequently been a target of hijackers, most recently on Oct. 19, when a passenger kicked in the cockpit door on a flight from Istanbul to Cairo and forced the crew to fly to Hamburg. All aboard were released without injury. In November 1985, a Boeing 737 was taken over by hijackers on a flight from Athens to Cairo. The hijackers shot two passengers, and Egyptian commandos stormed the plane in Malta, where 57 more were killed.
One month earlier, an Egyptair 737 was carrying the hijackers of the ocean liner Achille Lauro when the plane was intercepted by American fighter jets and forced to land in Italy.
The 767, a twin-engine jet with two aisles, seats seven abreast in economy class. The model has become very popular with airlines for trans-Atlantic flights, replacing older planes, partly because it has a lower operating cost.
The plane's operating record is generally good. One owned by Lauda Air, an Austrian airline, crashed in the jungle near Bangkok, Thailand, in May 1991, killing all 223 people aboard. Investigators found that a thrust reverser, a device usually used on the runway shortly after landing to redirect the jet exhaust and slow the plane, had deployed during the flight.
According to a Web site that tracks airplanes, the plane that crashed today came off the assembly line at the Boeing plant in Seattle immediately before the Lauda plane.
The Boeing 767 is covered by a number of "airworthiness directives," or orders from the Federal Aviation Administration to inspect or fix certain parts, because of crashes involving other airplanes. Among the directives are inspections of fuel tank wiring required after the explosion of T.W.A. 800, which was a Boeing 747.
A difference between the Egyptair flight and T.W.A. 800 could be the functioning of its flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders. The ones on T.W.A. 800 stopped at the beginning of the event, apparently because of a complete loss of electrical power. But the Egyptair plane had electrical power for at least 36 more seconds, with its transponder continuing to function, and its recorders may have continued.
In addition, as a later vintage airplane that is about 15 years younger than T.W.A. 800, the Egyptair 767's flight data recorder might have captured more information. Boeing was not able to say this evening, however, what it equipped the plane with when it was delivered. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); MALTA (53%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (87%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (76%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO; EGYPTAIR BOEING CO (92%); EGYPTAIR HOLDING CO (90%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; EGYPTAIR NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); MALTA (53%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (87%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (76%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY AIRLINES (91%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



14 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1858 words

HEADLINE: Charges Unravel Drug-Use Scholar's Career

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO 

 BODY:
For a quarter-century, Dr. Ansley Hamid was a creative researcher and trailblazing anthropologist, discovering and documenting trends in urban drug use that were closely watched and, in some cases, celebrated by academics and drug-use experts nationwide.
With notebook in hand, Dr. Hamid, with his bushy beard and jumble of hair, would trudge into America's drug underworld, talking to addicts and users and documenting such trends as the advent of crack in New York. But his "crowning achievement," as the professor put it, came in 1996, when the federal government awarded $2.6 million to Dr. Hamid's employer, the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, so he could head a five-year study of heroin use in New York's toughest neighborhoods. 
 "Finally," the professor said, "I get national and international recognition."
Instead of finding acclaim, though, Dr. Hamid has watched his career disintegrate.
Last Monday, a federal complaint filed in Manhattan accused Dr. Hamid, 55, of misusing money from the grant, which was made by the National Institute on Drug Abuse, a division of the federal Department of Health and Human Services. Based on a two-year investigation, the complaint said that Dr. Hamid used at least $5,000 to take trips, buy CD's and hire researchers to work on a book manuscript -- all unrelated to the research for which the money was earmarked.
The complaint also said Dr. Hamid directed a researcher to use fund money to buy heroin for his subjects.
In addition, Dr. Hamid, who remains free on a $25,000 bond after appearing in Federal District Court in Manhattan, faces the loss of his position at John Jay, where he received tenure in 1992 after teaching there for eight years. The professor was suspended from the heroin project in December 1997 and removed from teaching in January 1999, though he is still being paid.
College officials are building a case to revoke his tenure, said Robert E. Diaz, the college's counsel.
The professor remains adamant about his innocence, charging that colleagues envious over his success conspired with university officials to ruin him.
"I'm looking at 10 years in prison and a fine of $250,000, for what is really trumped-up charges," he said.
Dr. Hamid does not deny spending money on some of the items outlined in the complaint, but he disputes the federal complaint's assertions that the spending was not related to his research. The money, the professor said, came from a discretionary fund that made $30,000 available to him annually.
"I spent most of my money on additional computers," he said. "The first $30,000 I got, I got more assistants. I bought more books. I bought some of these famous CD's."
College officials and several former colleagues disagree with the professor's assessments. Joy Settembrino, whom Dr. Hamid hired to supervise workers and handle the direct-cost account from the federal grant, contended that the professor "started getting carried away with the spending."
Ms. Settembrino said Dr. Hamid requested money from the account for items that did not appear related to the heroin research. She said she refused. So Dr. Hamid instead spent from an indirect-cost account, Ms. Settembrino said, in the process accumulating such items as a tapestry worth about $800, computer equipment that is no longer at the university and furniture that never arrived at the project's offices. Her assertions are backed by other project workers.
"It almost seemed that he acted as if the check for the full $2.6 million was written out to him to do as he pleased," Ms. Settembrino said.
Colleagues and drug experts who said they had long admired Dr. Hamid's work, and even some of those who denounced the professor's supposed excesses, have been saddened by the revelations. The long career of a serious academic and investigator appears to have met a scandalous end, they said.
"I don't want anyone to imply I'm taking a position, but I'm very unhappy about a man of achievement who's in this situation," said Dr. Nathan Gould, chairman of the anthropology department at John Jay. "It's a tragic situation. It may not be Shakespearean in scope, but for him, it is. For him, it's a terrible, terrible situation."
Nothing in Dr. Hamid's past could have portended such a messy future. The son of a lawyer in San Fernando, Trinidad, Dr. Hamid said he and his siblings were "very respectful of law and order."
His first major stop in academia was the London School of Economics, where he received a sociology degree in 1968 and developed far-left political theories he never really abandoned. After teaching and studying in Nigeria and India, Dr. Hamid arrived at Columbia University in the mid-1970's.
Working under Dr. Lambros Comitas, he developed a keen interest in the role drugs and drug policies play in society. To Dr. Comitas, who has taught at Columbia since 1958 and heads anthropology programs, the young man "was one of our best students, one of our brightest and best."
"He really became an expert on the poor and how they survive in places like Brooklyn," Dr. Comitas said.
After receiving a doctorate in anthropology in 1980, Dr. Hamid soon distinguished himself by heading into the bleakest neighborhoods in the city, developing rapport with residents and, ultimately, drug dealers, users and addicts.
The professor earned a reputation for building trust with the people in an underworld suspicious of outsiders. In fact, in dank apartments and on blighted street corners, Dr. Hamid would often be greeted enthusiastically by his subjects.
"His strength has always been to get people from the world outside the ivory tower to talk about their lives," said Karen Colvard, program officer for the Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation, which gave Dr. Hamid two grants. "Hamid's style is a little bit more mellow and laid back. He schmoozes more with people, than asking direct questions."
Dr. Hamid's findings began to receive notice. He developed theories detailing the structure of the informal drug economy. He wrote about how Washington's tough marijuana interdiction policies in the 1970's and 1980's hastened the international trafficking of cocaine.
Ethan Nadelmann, director of the Lindesmith Center, a New York organization that pushes for change in drug policies, said Dr. Hamid's findings could presage trends that had yet to be acknowledged by drug-abuse experts in and outside government. Mr. Nadelmann said that in the early 1990's, he told an official from the federal drug czar's office that crack cocaine use had peaked, as Dr. Hamid had begun to tell him.
The official scoffed, Mr. Nadelmann recalled, but six months later, he acknowledged to Mr. Nadelmann that the assertion was true.
"The answer is Andy Hamid," Mr. Nadelmann said. "He was picking it up on the street. He went to Harlem. He went to Washington Heights."
Dr. Hamid also published papers and one book, "Drugs in America: Sociology, Economics and Politics," in 1998. He also said he edited another book and wrote manuscripts for two more. His work brought him grants from foundations, universities and government agencies. Most of the amounts were modest, though the Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation gave him $130,000 for two projects that listed him as principal investigator.
So for the professor, nothing could have been seen as more of an affirmation of his work than the government's $2.6 million grant, which was made to John Jay and the Research Foundation of the City University of New York, for a project titled Heroin in the 21st Century. Then, in 1997, the National Institute on Drug Abuse notified the college that an additional $2.8 million grant had been approved, this one for Dr. Hamid to study drug policies in the Caribbean.
"These awards were crowning achievements of this whole 25-year career," Dr. Hamid said.
But by early 1997, Dr. Hamid's reputation had begun to unravel. His demeanor had begun to deteriorate, former colleagues said, and he became volatile and verbally abusive. Dr. Hamid, who had overall authority on the project, also cut salaries and fired at least five researchers, current and former employees of the project said.
"He would not give grandfatherly advice," said Dr. Richard Curtis, an anthropology professor at John Jay who was a co-writer of the grant request for financing for the heroin project and who served as project director. "He would sometimes be quite nasty about it, and people would leave in tears. People were kind of traumatized, because they felt they had done their best."
Travis Wendel, a doctoral candidate at John Jay, said that during a dispute over a paper he had written, Dr. Hamid became so angry that he challenged Mr. Wendel to a fight.
"Having a bit of power and control and so on went to his head, and he couldn't handle it," said Mr. Wendel, who said he was the first employee fired by Dr. Hamid. "He's just worse with people than anyone I've known in my life."
With questions over Dr. Hamid's management style threatening to derail the project, exasperated researchers at first went to Dr. Curtis for advice. Dr. Curtis responded by going to the department chairman, Dr. Gould, and college officials. When allegations arose in late 1997 about the possible misuse of grant money, sources close to the case said the college notified the Department of Health and Human Services and an investigation ensued.
Dr. Hamid is especially vehement in his accusations against Dr. Curtis, who was once a close friend and studied with him at Columbia. The fact that the heroin project is continuing with Dr. Curtis, who remains as project director while another professor has replaced Dr. Hamid as principal investigator, only seems to raise Dr. Hamid's ire further.
"There's one person given this grant, and that was myself, and it was based on my published work," Dr. Hamid said. "The college did not want to see me have that prominence, and from the very beginning began to promote Curtis as some kind of equal."
Dr. Curtis, who is highly regarded by colleagues and drug-abuse experts, said that Dr. Hamid had been "paranoid that people were out to get him" since receiving the grant.
And Jerry Capeci, a spokesman for the college, called Dr. Hamid's accusations "utter nonsense."
"The college moved against him because staffers and others involved in the grant's activities made serious allegations against him, and the allegations proved to be credible," Mr. Capeci said. "We gave him tenure. We had nothing against him, but it was our duty to move against him."
The professor still has his supporters, people like Suzana Maia, a part-time researcher on the project, who said: "I never had any problem with Professor Hamid. I was very well treated during the short period I stayed in the program."
But Dr. Hamid, who has remained away from the university during the saga, is wistful about his years of work and worried about the future.
"It looks like this whole action at John Jay has destroyed my viability and made it more difficult for me to go to funding agencies," he said. "So it's a little heartbreaking that all of that has been destroyed."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Ansley Hamid, shown speaking with young people in East Harlem in 1989, distinguished himself through his work in urban neighborhoods. But he is now accused of misusing money from a federal grant. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JOHN JAY COLLEGE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN JAY COLLEGE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (55%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; HEROIN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TRENDS (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); HEROIN (89%); ACADEMIC TENURE (89%); CONSPIRACY (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); BAIL (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

PERSON: FORERO, JUAN; HAMID, ANSLEY (PROF) ANSLEY HAMID (98%); JOY SETTEMBRINO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



15 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
Computer Scientists Are Poised For Revolution on a Tiny Scale

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Scientists at a variety of elite laboratories around the country are sharing a growing sense that they are on the brink of a new era in digital electronics. It will usher in a world of circuits no more than a few atoms wide, with a potential impact on computing, in terms of speed and memory, that may be too profound to fathom.
It was only in July that a group of researchers at Hewlett-Packard and the University of California at Los Angeles reported that they had successfully fashioned rudimentary electronic logic gates -- a basic component of computing -- that were the thickness of a single molecule. Now other groups are preparing to announce that they have succeeded in creating other basic computing components at this ultramicroscopic scale, known as molecular electronics. 
 Researchers at Yale and Rice Universities, for example, plan to report in the journal Science in a few weeks that they have taken an important step past the Hewlett-U.C.L.A. work. In the July demonstration, the molecular gate could be made to move into open or shut positions, but could not be switched back again. But the Yale-Rice team says it has created molecular-scale switches that can be repeatedly opened and shut -- a necessary step in representing zeros and ones, the basic binary signals used in the circuitry of digital transistors.
And now Hewlett-Packard scientists say they have recently taken an important step toward creating rows of conductive wires that are less than a dozen atoms across -- a crucial part of hooking together the molecule-sized switches that could one day result in computers vastly faster than today's.
The rapid sequence of breakthroughs is giving the researchers a new sense of confidence. "We're on the scent, and we know the fox is out there," said Stan Williams, a Hewlett-Packard physicist who is a pioneer in molecular electronics.
According to the buzz in this research community, meanwhile, other laboratories are making progress on a number of fronts, working under top-secret conditions. One of these labs is said to be working on a molecular device capable of holding random-access memory, or RAM.
If molecular memory devices could be constructed, they might offer vast storage capabilities for just pennies in cost. One near-term application might be to permanently store an entire DVD-quality movie in a space much smaller than a conventional semiconductor chip.
As an applied science, molecular electronics would begin at a minute scale far beyond the theoretical boundaries of the conventional technology of silicon transistors.
Today's silicon-based microelectronic devices have a minimum size between electrical components of 0.18 micron (about one-thousandth the thickness of a human hair) and could potentially go as small as 0.10 micron. That would be 100-billionths of a meter, or 100 nanometers.
But in molecular electronics, the smallest components may be able to shrink to one-hundredth that size -- a single nanometer. The difference could mean chips exponentially more powerful than anything of a comparable size today or computing devices unimaginably tiny by contemporary standards.
The recent rapid pace of advance has led to a palpable sense of mission among a small group of physicists, chemists and computer designers, who until recently were viewed as impractical dreamers by much of the computer industry.
"In two to five years, you will begin to see functioning circuits which are of recognizable utility," said John C. Ellenbogen, a molecular electronics researcher at the Mitre Corporation, a research center for the military and private industry.
Such optimism leads a number of researchers to believe that rapidly cascading advances in molecular-scale science may soon constitute what economists refer to as a disruptive technology -- one that changes basic industrial assumptions, just as the transistor did in replacing the vacuum tube during the 1950's, and as integrated circuits overtook individual transistors during the 1960's. Some molecular electronics researchers envision an entirely new industry, perhaps within the next decade.
The consequences of such a revolution would be immense and possibly destabilizing for the world's semiconductor industry. Although the chip industry now believes that it sees a path at least until 2014 for making ever-smaller solid-state silicon devices, the cost of the manufacturing systems to make the chips is enormous -- and continuing to mount with each new chip generation.
Today's semiconductor chips are made in multibillion-dollar fabrication plants -- or "fabs" -- that use light waves to etch successive layers of circuitry on a silicon substrate. It is an expensive process, in part because of the high cost of creating and maintaining the "clean rooms" required for avoiding contamination by dust. But researchers in molecular electronics are optimistic that they will be able to use much less finicky methods by creating chemical reactions that "self-assemble" vast numbers of molecular-scale circuits at infinitesimal cost.
"This should scare the pants off anyone working in silicon," said Mark Reed, a Yale University chemist, who is co-author of the forthcoming Science article and co-leader of a related memory project to be announced Dec. 6 at the International Electron Device Meeting in Washington. "It will be dirt cheap and it will create a discontinuity."
A colleague in the field agrees. "If you can make computers as easily as photographic film, then a lot of companies are going to be wondering what they're doing with their $15 billion fabs," said James R. Heath, a U.C.L.A. chemist who is part of the Pentagon-financed Hewlett-Packard-U.C.L.A. research team that demonstrated molecular logic gates last summer.
The vision of a new industry has captured government and corporate attention. The Clinton administration is now considering the possibility of a National Nanotechnology Initiative as early as next January to set up financing and help organize diverse research activities in nanotechnology -- a range of manufacturing technologies that begin at the scale of individual molecules. Moreover, a number of computer and semiconductor companies, led by Sun Microsystems and Motorola, have been quietly meeting with scientists to discuss the formation of an industry consortium to seek commercial applications for molecular electronics.
And yet, researchers acknowledge that so far they have taken only the first baby steps toward the larger challenge of building molecular-scale computers. No one, for example, has figured out how to interconnect billions and billions of molecular switches with wires 11 atoms in diameter.
"It feels like we're a year before the invention of the transistor and we're asking: 'What does solid state look like?' " said Paul Saffo, a researcher at the Institute for the Future who has tracked the development of new technologies.
And there is a general agreement that if such systems are to be assembled into workable computers, it will require radically new architectures alien to today's semiconductor-based computers.
At Hewlett-Packard, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Laboratory of Computer Science and at Mitre, computer scientists are beginning to explore computer architectures that are far more fault tolerant than today's microelectronic computers and whose structures resemble biological systems.
Manufacturing might involve assembling trillions of circuits and then identifying and mapping out the bad ones -- much as faulty sectors are declared off limits in today's disk drives.
"We will try to program with what we've got," said James Tour, a molecular scientist at Rice University. "It's a very biological approach: everyone's brain is the same, but the pathways are all unique."
Much of the research financing in this field now comes from the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. "We've built this entire program on the idea of thinking differently," William Warren, a program manager at the agency, said. "We don't want to be standing on the shoulders of silicon."
That is why the recent first steps toward eventual self-sufficiency have created such excitement in the molecular computing research community, a group that for years had a consistent vision but no empirical results.
"All of us were constantly on the defensive," Mr. Ellenbogen, the Mitre researcher, recalled. "Although we believed in some rational way this was the way to go, among ourselves we were continually forced to reassure ourselves that we weren't crazy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about research breakthroughs in molecular electronics misstated the academic specialty of Mark Reed at Yale University. He is the chairman of the electrical engineering department, not a chemist. The article also misstated the given name of a researcher at the Mitre Corporation. He is James C. Ellenbogen, not John.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hewlett-Packard researchers in molecular electronics have produced wires about 10 atoms wide, like this one, in red, as seen through a scanning-tunneling microscope. (Hewlett-Packard)(pg. 1); Three molecular-electronics wires, each but 10 atoms wide and about 50 atoms apart, as seen through a microscope. (Hewlett-Packard); Mark Reed, a Yale chemist, is a leader of research into molecule-sized machines. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. C4)
 
Diagram: "A Close-in Look at Molecular Switches"
Scientists are working to perfect a new type of integrated circuit that uses a chemical process to create an electronic switch as small as a molecule.
 
HOW IT WORKS
Electricity travels from the titanium-coated wires to the aluminum-oxide-coated ones, passing through rotaxane molecules. If the voltage difference between the wires is small, the molecules will not change; they will conduct electricity. A large difference will cause the molecules to become insulators, making them open switches.
 
(Source: Hewlett-Packard)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; RESEARCH SCIENCE NEWS (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (88%); RESEARCH REPORTS (79%); COMPUTER CHIPS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (77%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (76%); MICROPROCESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999



16 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 5; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1632 words

HEADLINE: For the Musical Alchemist, a New Tack: Cryogenics

BYLINE: By TERRY H. SCHWADRON 

 BODY:
It was a chance meeting. Dr. Joseph Markoff, a Philadelphia ophthalmologist and a classically trained trumpet player, was entertaining at a family party when one of the guests made a startling proposition: would Dr. Markoff consider having his trumpet frozen?
"I thought he was some kind of nut," Dr. Markoff said. "I could not imagine what he was talking about." 
 But the guest, Steven Wasser, a flute manufacturer, was perfectly serious. As president of Powell Flutes, in Maynard, Mass., he had been experimenting with deep-freezing techniques, and had become convinced that something musically interesting occurred as a result. Cryogenics had a lot to offer musicians, he said.
Dr. Markoff, who knew of the uses of cryogenics in the operating room, was intrigued. He agreed to send Mr. Wasser an old trumpet.
It was not a valued instrument, said Dr. Markoff, who described it as "best suited for a lamp." But when he played it after it had been frozen, Dr. Markoff found the instrument had become "one of the freest-blowing" and most superbly focused trumpets he had ever owned.
Mr. Wasser said he had experienced such success with the freezing process that he now regularly included that step in the flute-manufacturing process. "I don't publicize cryogenics because I can't prove it scientifically," he said. "But almost everyone who has tried a blind test picks the treated instrument."
Deep-freezing musical instruments may sound extreme, but it is just one example of how brass and woodwind makers are wrestling with deciding just how much to allow technology to remake their craft.
For hundreds of years, brass-instrument makers have tinkered with their processes and hoarded their secret tricks like alchemists of old, all with the hope of making it easier to amplify the sound made by a vibrating column of air. It is a business in which science traditionally has run a distant second to the art of tailoring the instrument to the musician. The musician is invited to visit the factory and all but create the instrument in hope of supplying a perfect combination of acoustics and alloys to satisfy the human, if not the scientific, ear.
As the technological revolution expands into music, however, instrument makers find themselves split over whether to welcome or shun the economic benefits of computerization, robots and precision tooling. While the new technologies can make manufacturing cheaper, instrument manufacturers resist a one-size-fits-all approach. They talk about another goal: the creation of instruments individually suited to the musicians who play them.
"In the end, every instrument is different," said Richard K. Breske, vice president of United Musical Instruments of Elkhart, Ind., one of the largest musical instrument manufacturers. "We stretch metal and pound it, heat it, cool it. We give people interchangeable parts to make the sound brighter or darker, more or less resistant and then make lots of small changes to fit the sound our musicians want," he said.
So United, which makes instruments under brand names like Conn and Benge, as well as Yamaha Musical Products, the Edwards Instrument Company, the Getzen Company and the Selmer Company, makers of Bach instruments, all now sell brass instruments with multiple bells, lead pipes and other parts that vary in size or thickness or alloy. The variety is all meant to help musicians who are trained to hear such differences more easily make the sounds they prefer.
A yellow bell on a trombone, for example, is generally about 70 percent copper and 30 percent zinc; a noticeably more red bell is about 90 percent copper, 10 percent zinc. Jazz musicians generally seek the yellow bell for its "brighter" tones, while redder bells seem more preferred among symphony musicians, who seek "darker" coloration in sound. The difference is in the timbre of the sound rather than in loudness or range. Attentive concertgoers might see musicians changing instruments for different pieces.
The basic processes of producing a horn have remained unchanged for decades, even centuries. Brass alloys are stretched, cut, hammered, spun. The metal is shaped against hard surfaces, brazed, soldered and buffed. Some companies are using computer-guided production and robots for hammering, but the basic idea is age-old.
But somehow, some instrument makers believe, these manufacturing techniques seem to be causing problems.
"All that soldering, bending, banging causes actual stress in the metal itself," said Andrew Naumann, director of development for trumpets at Edwards. Mr. Naumann, who himself builds models of historical trumpets, explained that stretching and soldering "can make an instrument blow 'tight' rather than freely. It is that free sound that most professionals want."
Enter cryogenics.
Stretching metal into the contortions that make up the average trumpet or tuba may upset the alloy's molecular structure. What was a discernible arrangement of molecules becomes less orderly, and stressed. Heat may make metal more malleable, but it may also spread the molecules. Supercooling treatments appear to return the molecules to a more orderly arrangement, relieving stress in the metal.
Or so goes the theory.
Almost all the scientific work on supercooling metal has involved ferrous metals, steel mostly. Brass has received little attention, relatively speaking. In fact, a dozen or more companies around the country offer to deep-freeze a variety of steel products, including razor blades, golf clubs and drill bits. They display performance charts assuring greater longevity and hardness in metal after cryogenic treatment.
So why not musical instruments? Those who have tried the deep-freeze say there is a difference in ease of playing and in the range of "color" in the tone.
Wayne Tanabe, owner of the Brass Bow music repair shop in Arlington Heights, Ill., has a cryogenics tank big enough to hold a tuba.
For about $200, Mr. Tanabe cleans an instrument with ultrasound, then he wraps it, and, over 35 to 50 hours, he gradually lowers its temperature to about 325 degrees below zero Fahrenheit, well above absolute zero (459 degrees below zero Fahrenheit).
As Mr. Tanabe explains it, the extreme cold can accelerate what seems to happen to brass instruments as they age. Sound quality improves, he said, because resonance is clearer. He believes that his is a once-in-a-lifetime treatment, and that the effects last indefinitely.
Mr. Tanabe offers testimonials from musicians, including several from the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. But his advertising is by word of mouth. "Otherwise, people think you're talking about voodoo," he said.
Because there has been little scientific research on the effect of extreme cold on musical instruments, several of the larger manufacturers have decided not to pursue such techniques. "We've heard about it, but we cannot show that it works," said Mr. Breske of United Musical Instruments. Fred Powell, who directs brass instrument development for United, said that the techniques might relieve structural stress, but that there was no evidence that the metal changed.
Even some specialized brass instrument manufacturers are skeptical. David G. Monette of Portland, Ore., has built the unusual, recognizable trumpets that Wynton Marsalis uses. At seven pounds, his trumpets, which include a built-in mouthpiece and a rare inner and outer bell, can weigh up to three times as much as more popular trumpets. "Brass is brass," Mr. Monette said. "It is what you do with it that matters."
Cryogenics, he said, "is the poor man's answer to problems in resonance," the problems of creating a pleasing tone.
Mr. Monette believes in the theories about stress, but says he has a secret proprietary manufacturing process that is a better antidote. He was part of a study performed by the Materials Research Society with Sandia National Laboratories that probed resonance both in his trumpets and in a golf club he produced. The study suggested that the patterns of resonance were similar. "Resonance is the name of the game," Mr. Monette said. "It is what we all are after." .
By contrast, Powell Flutes, which uses precious metals, not brass, has been swayed, even if Mr. Wasser cannot prove his belief. Mr. Wasser, the company's president, has sought scientific verification for introducing cryogenics to his manufacturing process for several years, ever since he learned that supercooling had helped strengthen fasteners used on the space shuttle.
At least one expert rejects Mr. Wasser's theory. Dr. Harry C. Gatos, a retired professor of materials science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a flute player, insisted that several diagnostic tests he and a team had run could turn up no measurable differences in silver, gold or platinum used in the instruments that had been supercooled. Furthermore, he said, if there had been any change, it would probably wear off. "Theory tells us that nothing should happen under cooling, and we saw no evidence of it," he said. "But people swear they feel a difference."
Dr. Markoff, the ophthalmologist, has been spreading the word about cryogenics among 20 musicians in the Philadelphia Orchestra, where he is a substitute player. As a result, about 45 instruments have been frozen, and while results were not uniform, many musicians described the sound as "richer" and "more focused" and the instruments as having "easier response."
Scientifically, Dr. Markoff said, "I believe that cryogenics stabilizes the brass and reduces extraneous vibrations and harmonics. It dampens whatever interferes with resonance and eliminates obstacles between the musician's lips and air column and the instrument. But the bottom line is that it makes me sound better."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wayne Tanabe, owner of the Brass Bow music shop in Arlington Heights, Ill., prepares a tuba for freezing. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times); The horn is carefully wrapped and taped, before being plunged into the freezer. Before the freezing begins, Mr. Tanabe rinses the tuba in a water bath. The freezer next is cooled with liquid nitrogen to 325 degrees below zero. Mr. Tanabe puts the horn into the tank, where it will stay for two to three days. How to improve the sounding brass? Dr. Joseph Markoff, left, an amateur musician, advocates an odd technique: freezing. Dr. Henry C. Gatos, below, a professor emeritus at M.I.T. and a materials expert, is one of the skeptics. (Michael Branscom for The New York Times); (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (67%); INDIANA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: POWELL FLUTES UNITED MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS HOLDINGS INC (50%); UNITED MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS USA INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: POWELL FLUTES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); INDIANA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS; CRYOGENICS WIND INSTRUMENTS (91%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (89%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (78%); 

PERSON: SCHWADRON, TERRY H; WASSER, STEVEN JOSEPH MARKOFF (85%); STEVEN WASSER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



17 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE EURO FALLS. The dollar rose against the euro as a report suggested further strength in United States manufacturing without inflationary pressure. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0506, down from $1.0542 on Friday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the dollar to the euro, since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) EURO (92%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



18 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
30-Year Yield 6.18%, Amid Hopes of Only One Rate Rise

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Yields of Treasury securities held near their four-week lows yesterday amid hopes that the Federal Reserve would not need to raise interest rates more than once in coming months to check inflation.
Michael Andreas, chief of fixed-income trading at Advest Inc., said the chances are pretty good that the Fed is going to raise rates 25 basis points at its meeting on Nov. 16, adding, "That would finish out what it has to do.". 
 The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond, which moves in the opposite direction from its yield, fell 7/32, to 99 9/32. The bond's yield rose to 6.18 percent, from 6.16 percent on Friday.
Bond prices crept lower in afternoon trading after the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, Michael Moskow, said inflation would become a threat without a slowdown in the "robust" pace of growth, which ran at an annual rate of 4.8 percent in the third quarter. But core consumer-price increases, excluding food and energy, increased 2.1 percent annually, which was less than in the 12-month period a year earlier. But Mr. Moskow said that future news on inflation might not be as good as it has been in recent years.
Gary Madich, senior managing director for fixed income at Banc One Investment Advisers, which has $70 billion in investments, maintained that "there's still that whiff of inflation out there." He agreed that an interest rate increase by the Fed was highly possible but that a series of rate increases after that was not likely.
Investors said another round of gains after last week's rally was unlikely before the employment report on Friday, which some analysts predicted might show the biggest addition of jobs in three months. If this occurs, that could shake expectations fueled by reports last week that nine years of economic expansion were still not generating much inflation.
Treasuries initially dropped yesterday after the National Association of Purchasing Management said its prices-paid index rose to 69.4 in October from 67.6 in September, indicating that more companies reported price increases in the month. October's price index was the highest since it was 70.5 in May 1995.
The following are the results of the Treasury's auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.737	97.427	High Rate	4.99%	5.09%	Coupon Yield	5.14%	5.31%	Low Rate	4.90%	5.00%	Median Rate	4.98%	5.08%	Total applied for	$32,591,060	$31,553,506	Accepted	$14,572,060	$13,066,313	Noncompetitive	$1,405,279	$1,171,156	
 
Both issues are dated Nov. 4, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 3, 2000, and the six-month bills mature on May 4, 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills"
Graph tracks average discounted rate at weekly auction, since July. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (56%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (69%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); YIELDS OF TREASURY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT YIELDS OF TREASURY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MOSKOW (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



19 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Fresh Gains Are Reported in Manufacturing

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Manufacturing expanded in October for the ninth consecutive month, a survey of business executives showed today.
The National Association of Purchasing Management said its factory index was 56.6 last month, meaning a majority of the manufacturers surveyed reported improved business. The decline from 57.8 in September reflected a drop in new orders from a five-year peak that month and a similar slowing of production. 
 The economy "is still looking quite good," said Samuel Siegel, vice chairman of Nucor in Charlotte, N.C., the nation's second-biggest steel producer. "We don't see the classic signs of a peak." Demand is strong for commercial and industrial construction projects, he added.
A separate Commerce Department report today showed that construction spending rose five-tenths of a percent in September, to $700.1 billion, at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. Spending has held close to that level all year. Government spending on highways and schools rose last month while residential building fell for a sixth consecutive month.
The association's index of prices paid by factories for raw materials rose to 69.4 in October from 67.6 in September. It was the highest since a reading of 70.5 in May 1995 and indicated that more companies reported price increases in the month.
Still, that does not mean inflation is going to accelerate, analysts said. "Commodity prices are no longer rising continuously," said Christopher Low, chief economist at First Tennessee Capital Markets in New York. "We expect the price index to moderate next month."
Part of the rise in the index could be because of increases in oil prices, which are up 80 percent since the start of the year. Last month, however, petroleum prices fell.
Broader gauges of commodity prices also showed declines. The Goldman Sachs commodity index has fallen 6 percent from a peak in late September.
The association's overall index has been above 50 since January, after declining to 45.3 in December. That was the lowest reading since May 1991, when the economy was emerging from the last recession. Readings above 50 mean that more manufacturers said business had picked up than said it had declined.
The association's index of new orders fell to 59.5 from September's 64.4; it was the highest since a reading of 65 in June 1994. The production index fell to 58.3 from 61.7; it was the second-highest since July 1997.
The index of export orders held above 50 last month for a ninth month after 14 months of shrinking sales overseas.
Today's Commerce Department report suggested that construction had leveled off as a force in the economy. Spending rose steadily from August 1998 until it peaked at an annualized rate of $715.4 billion in March. September's small rebound put total spending 4.2 percent higher than a year earlier.
Economists said higher borrowing costs -- 30-year fixed mortgage rates are now close to 8 percent -- contributed to the slowdown.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Construction Spending" tracks total construction spending, in billions of dollars at seasonally adjusted annual rate, from April 1998 through September 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) CONSTRUCTION (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (79%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (79%); RECESSION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



20 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: Scotland's Technology Nexus;
Silicon Glen Blend: Equal Parts Theory and Practice

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: GLASGOW

 BODY:
John Dunlop might very well have the look and manner of an archetypal academic or a midlevel bureaucrat, aloof from the high-technology revolution sweeping the globe. In reality, though, rather like a digital Braveheart, he is very much part of his country's updated assault on the electronic barricades.
Since late last year, behind the imposing Gothic ramparts of Glasgow's Strathclyde University, Dr. Dunlop, 55, a professor of electronic systems engineering, has been working on a project to monitor incoming radio signals so efficiently that as they begin to weaken, they can be bolstered back to full audibility. 
 What lifted this modest, $100,000 venture out of the groves of academe was that it was conducted in conjunction with the local subsidiary of Motorola. And its intention was far from theoretical: as Europe prepares to embrace a new generation of mobile phones, the technology developed by Dr. Dunlop and his small team will, he said, eliminate the fade-outs that are among the biggest irritants of wireless telephony. That could give Motorola a potential edge over competitors if the company chooses to exercise its first option on licensing rights.
The notion of collaboration between university researchers and corporate partners is nothing new in the United States, or in parts of England to the south. But here, it is new and heretical -- and central to a major effort to break away from dependence on imported technology as a source of manufacturing employment, or "screwdriver" jobs, and burst into an era of innovation generated at home.
Increasingly, its proponents say, that shift is the cornerstone of Scotland's effort not just to attract foreign investment to the corridor of technology companies between Glasgow and Edinburgh -- an area nicknamed Silicon Glen -- but to harness Scotland's output of college graduates in a high-technology revolution of its own.
Silicon Glen has one big edge over Silicon Valley: while California companies compete avidly to hire talent, Scotland produces far more highly trained graduates than its fledgling electronics design industry can employ. But that is also the problem: little of that home grown talent stays at home.
"The most important thing is that we are able to take our ideas from the academic environment into the industrial department," Dr. Dunlop said. And the development of wireless technology is only a part of what he termed a wide range of scientific development at the university linked to businesses.
Such thinking, Scotland's boosters maintain, is the forerunner of a fundamental change in the way Scotland handles its high-technology future, seeking a commercial edge from its successes in biotechnology -- like the cloning of Dolly the sheep -- to its advances into the domain of intellectual property in the semiconductor business.
Even now, in a project backed by Cadence Design Systems of San Jose, Calif., Scottish authorities are preparing a 97-acre campus offering research facilities to corporations, cheek-by-jowl with an academic center -- known as the Alba Center -- designed to train graduates in advanced chip design. The intention, according to an Alba statement, is to put "Scotland at the forefront of shaping the global electronic design industry."
The project, taking shape over the last year, reflects a perception among some Scottish electronics entrepreneurs that the focus of Scotland's ambitions has rested for too long on the employment potential of foreigners' imported technology.
"We should be doing more, looking beyond job creation to knowledge creation," said David Milne, 56, managing director of Wolfson Microelectronics, a successful semiconductor design company in Edinburgh that was created in 1985 as a spinoff from an academic research foundation and this year expects sales of $20 million, up from $15 million last year.
Scotland has proved adept at persuading American concerns and other companies to set up the kind of job-producing plants and telephone call-centers that are a feature of foreign investment across Britain and Ireland. Indeed, some 40,500 people have found jobs in electronic manufacturing -- with some 29,000 more employed in the supply chain -- since companies like I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard set up manufacturing plants.
Scotland's ambition now, though, is to build centers of high-technology innovation challenging rivals like Cambridge (Silicon Fen) or Oxford (Silicon Spires), both set up explicitly to tap academia's knowledge for industrial purposes.
To do that, said Crawford W. Beveridge, chief executive of Scottish Enterprise, a government development agency, "what you have to do is to play the hand you are dealt."
"And," he added, "we've been dealt a better hand with the university system" than some of Scotland's European rivals.
Indeed, with some 9 percent of Britain's 50-million-plus population, Scottish universities produce 21 percent of the nation's postgraduate degrees in computer science. And even at the college level, they punch above their weight, turning out some 2,406 engineering and technology degrees, or 11 percent of the British total of 21,010. The idea now, Mr. Beveridge said, is to create clusters, bringing together university brain with the financial brawn of the world's $7 billion semiconductor market.
The scale of ambition is not altogether surprising. In August, Scotland's parliament was revived after 300 years, formalizing the land's claims to a separate political identity. Scotland's banks, moreover, have shown a new feistiness, competing in hostile -- if slow-moving -- maneuvers to take over one of England's biggest retail banks, National Westminster.
In a nation whose heart once beat to the rivet guns of ship-building on the Clyde, steel and other heavy industry, Scotland has mixed a newer economic life-blood from North Sea oil, tourism, food industries and technology. That shows in familiar ways: once the depressed domain of savvy bargain-hunters, the housing market in upscale sections of Glasgow and Edinburgh has "gone berserk," Mr. Beveridge said.
And anyone who doubts that Scotland sees itself as a land apart need only contemplate the recent draw for a major soccer tournament between Scotland and England. That mid-November fixture sent a frisson through the nation's sports fans with headlines gleefully feting the looming confrontation with what Scots call the "auld enemy" south of the border.
But the stand-alone ambitions are offset by a somewhat more glum reality.
Unlike Ireland, say, Scotland has yet to reverse the brain drain that takes its graduates away to other high-technology centers offering more established career trajectories. And while Silicon Valley quests in vain for more people to employ, Silicon Glen searches desperately for technology start-ups to employ Scotland's surfeit of talent.
"There are a lot of graduates out there," said Colin Thompson, a semiconductor design expert with a Scottish subsidiary of Micro Linear of San Jose. "But there aren't enough companies that want to hire them."
There is, though, a showcase of Scotland's ambitions to change all that, and it is to be found in the Alba Center, in a converted factory on the blustery outskirts of the town of Livingston, between Glasgow and Edinburgh. There, for the first time, four separate Scottish universities have joined with corporate supporters to establish a master's degree course in what its backers say is the way of the silicon future.
What makes the $50 million project distinctive is its fusion of Scottish academic teaching and research talent with American investment to produce what its director, Kevin Casey, calls the world's first master's degree in the new technology of assembling entire systems on a single chip. And the long-term goal is to strengthen Scotland's claim on a future as an electronics design center.
"It's not just about a job, it's about a career -- the first job, the second job, the third job," Mr. Casey said. "The idea is to grow the company base so that people coming out of university and people overseas recognize that there are career opportunities in Scotland." And that, he said, will "create the image of Scotland as a hotbed of activity" in the design of single units performing functions that once required several different chips.
Additionally, the Alba Center -- which takes its name from a ninth century union of Picts and Scots -- has a putative marketplace for chip designs that will go beyond the existing catalogs of available technology, drawing designers of "intellectual property" into a regulated exchange with potential corporate buyers like Advanced RISC Machines, Cadence Design Systems, Hitachi and Toshiba.
The idea, said Andy Travers, head of what is called the Virtual Component Exchange, is to lower the marketing costs of low-budget individual designers -- known generically as "Fred-in-a-shed," a term suggesting techie types laboring over high-powered computers in their back yards to produce design breakthroughs.
Additionally, Mr. Travers said, the exchange will establish regulations and legal norms intended to cut out hefty and laborious legal processes and accelerate the transition from "Fred's" inventions -- known as virtual components -- to commercial products.
In a way, Mr. Travers, 37, is an example of what Scotland wants to achieve. In 1986, with a degree in physics from Strathclyde University and four years' experience in chip design, he said, he "wanted to see the world" and took a job in Switzerland. After three years, though, "I got a hankering to come back and I did," albeit for a "vast cut in salary."
Now, he reckons, things are changing. "We have an influx of opportunities," he said. "You can live in a country where you don't have to sit in traffic for two hours. And you can get a job that's at the forefront of the technology that matters to you. You are going to be at the cutting edge."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Dunlop, left, a professor of electronic systems engineering at Strathclyde University in Glasgow, and David Milne, above, managing director of Wolfson Microelectronics, a semiconductor design company in Edinburgh. (Photographs by Ken Paterson for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "High Technology For the Highlands"
Scotland's manufacturing and engineering industries are growing and it is producing more than its fair share of computer science and technology graduates; but academics are being encouraged to cooperate on commercial ventures to keep more home-grown talent working at home.
 
Gains in contribution to the economy from 1990 to 1996
 
ENGINEERING AND RELATED INDUSTRIES
SCOTLAND: +71%
ALL OF BRITAIN: +4%
 
MANUFACTURING
SCOTLAND: +16%
ALL OF BRITAIN: +3%
 
Degrees earned per 100,000 people in 1997-98
 
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (ALL LEVELS)
SCOTLAND: 54 degrees
REST OF BRITAIN: 47 degrees
 
COMPUTER SCIENCE (POSTGRADUATE)
SCOTLAND: 9 degrees
REST OF BRITAIN: 3 degrees
 
(Sources: Government Statistical Service, Britain; Higher Education Statistic Agency, Britain; General Register Office, Scotland; Scottish Enterprises)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (56%); CDNS (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (52%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: STRATHCLYDE UNIVERSITY (SCOTLAND); WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY NEXUS AB (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); CADENCE DESIGN SYSTEMS INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: STRATHCLYDE UNIVERSITY (SCOTLAND); WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS

GEOGRAPHIC: SCOTLAND; SCOTLAND (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RESEARCH; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; COMPUTER CHIPS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS ENGINEERING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (77%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (77%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); CLONING (68%); MICROPROCESSORS (68%); INWARD INVESTMENT (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (67%); TRENDS (64%); COMPUTER CHIPS (63%); SEMICONDUCTORS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%); 

PERSON: DUNLOP, JOHN; MILNE, DAVID; COWELL, ALAN JOHN THOMAS DUNLOP (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



21 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Chase Manhattan must cut its revenue after discovering some nonexistent trading profits.

BYLINE: By Patrick McGeehan 

 BODY:
THE Chase Manhattan Corporation, the nation's third-largest bank, said yesterday that its fourth-quarter trading revenue would be reduced by $60 million after the bank found it had booked nonexistent trading profits. The bank has dismissed a currency trader involved in the matter.
Bank officials declined to identify the trader or to say why he was dismissed. But people inside the bank said that a senior currency trader named Christopher Goggins was dismissed last week after an internal audit found he had been exploiting a flaw in the bank's systems to post gains on long-term trades that the bank could not realize. 
 They said the bank had not determined whether the breach was deliberate or inadvertent. Traders are usually compensated based on their annual trading performance.
A woman who answered the phone at Mr. Goggins's home in New Jersey said he was no longer employed at Chase. Mr. Goggins did not respond to messages left at the home.
In a statement, Chase said that no money was embezzled from the bank and that no customer funds were affected. Chase also noted that the $60 million cut in fourth-quarter revenue was barely significant to a bank with trading revenue of $2.2 billion in the first nine months of 1999.
"Clearly, this is something that they're embarrassed about and should be embarrassed about," said Lawrence Cohn, director of research at Ryan, Beck & Company in Livingston, N.J. "It's a breakdown in their internal control mechanisms."
The reversal of the paper gains will reduce the bank's net income this quarter by about 5 cents a share, analysts said. Chase's stock dropped $3.6875 a share yesterday, or 4 percent, to $83.5625 on the New York Stock Exchange.
According to people inside Chase, the trader had taken advantage of slight discrepancies in the bank's pricing of currency and interest-rate contracts for about a year. The trades involved currency forwards, or contracts to buy or sell currencies at a predetermined price on a future date. To limit risk, such trades typically involve the simultaneous purchase of one contract and sale of another.
These people said the trader was inflating the paper profits on his trades by using inappropriate methods to measure their value. The small differences in those pricing methods added up as the size of the positions grew larger through the year, they said.
"He was picking and choosing from two different cash streams on the same contracts to make it look like profits were being made that really weren't," a Chase executive said.
Chase officials declined to say whether the bank planned to take legal action against the trader.
Analysts who were briefed on the matter by a Chase executive said they were persuaded that the bank had rooted out the problem and repaired the flaw in its systems that allowed it to occur.
Mr. Cohn said that as he heard about the problem, he was reminded of Joseph Jett, a one-time star trader at Kidder, Peabody, a securities firm that has since closed. Mr. Jett was dismissed from Kidder after he was said to have exploited flaws in risk-management systems to book huge gains on trades that the firm never realized.
In 1996, an arbitration panel rejected Kidder's case seeking $82.8 million in fraud claims from Mr. Jett, though it withheld millions of dollars of his deferred compensation. Last year, Mr. Jett was found guilty of false record-keeping, ordered to repay $8.2 million of bonuses, fined $200,000 and barred from the securities industry.
Other analysts played down the Chase incident, calling it so minor that it would never have been noticed had the bank not disclosed it.
"This sort of thing -- traders getting beyond their scope -- happens occasionally," Diane Glossman, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, said. "In all of the cases where it has happened to an American bank, they've proven to be isolated cases rather than an indication of faulty oversight."
Chemical Bank, one of the banks that merged to form Chase, had a big loss from one person's trades in 1994. Victor Gomez, a currency trader, lost $66 million in what his supervisors called unauthorized trading of contracts on the Mexican peso. Mr. Gomez was sentenced in 1997 to 37 months in jail for conspiring to defraud the bank by falsifying records.
"If something like this happens to them every five years, with as much currency trading as Chase does around the world," Ms. Glossman said, "that would indicate that their controls are pretty good." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CMB (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CURRENCY COMPANY PROFITS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); AUDITS (75%); EMBEZZLEMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: GOGGINS, CHRISTOPHER; MCGEEHAN, PATRICK JOSEPH JETT (66%); CHRISTOPHER GOGGINS (59%); VICTOR GOMEZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



22 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Andersen Consulting's Chief Makes E-Commerce New Goal

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
Andersen Consulting said yesterday that Joe W. Forehand, a high-ranking partner with 27 years of experience at the firm, would be its new chief executive. Mr. Forehand said in an interview that he planned to make e-commerce the central part of the consulting firm and that the company intended to take stakes in clients more frequently.
Mr. Forehand, a native of Alabama who now lives in Texas, most recently led the firm's communications and high-technology practice, which accounts for about 25 percent of the company's revenue. He replaces George T. Shaheen -- who left in September to run Webvan Group, an Internet grocery delivery company -- as the head of the $9 billion firm, which employs 65,000 people in 48 countries. 
 The 51-year-old Mr. Forehand takes over at a crucial time for Andersen, the world's largest consulting firm. Its 1999 growth rate will fall below 20 percent for the first time since 1994 as its strength in installing back-office systems has become less lucrative and it has been embroiled in a nasty breakup with its former parent, Arthur Andersen. After bringing in $8.3 billion in revenue last year, Andersen Consulting will report a growth rate in the mid-teens for 1999, Mr. Forehand said.
Following in the footsteps of the dynamic Mr. Shaheen, the new chief executive is little known outside of Andersen, where he has spent his entire career, and one analyst said the appointment was a surprise, though strategically sensible.
"Andersen doesn't really need a dynamic, colorful leader anymore," said Tim Bourgeois, the vice president of research at Kennedy Information, a New Hampshire research firm that tracks consulting. "It makes sense to have a kinder, gentler person" as chief executive.
Mr. Forehand said he envisioned an Andersen that had a consulting practice at its core but increasingly invested in Internet ventures that would then be aligned with the firm. It would also use its consultants' ideas to start businesses.
Andersen, he said, should "become a part of the fabric of this new economy, not just watch it happen." Currently, 14,000 of Andersen's consultants are taking internal classes to improve their understanding of e-commerce, he added.
The firm already holds about a dozen stakes, typically worth $2 million to $3 million each, in start-ups for which it has done work, said Mr. Forehand, who majored in engineering at Auburn University. Mr. Forehand said he would aggressively expand such projects, particularly in business-to-business ventures.
Owning parts of other companies raises potential conflict-of-interest problems for consulting firms, which have long worked for more than one client in an industry. Clients could be reluctant to hire a firm that owns parts of a rival.
Mr. Forehand said he was confident that Andersen would be able to resolve such issues.
He also said he would not alter the firm's confrontational strategy of seeking a divorce from Arthur Andersen, from which it tried to break off almost two years ago. Andersen Consulting became a separate unit of Arthur Andersen in 1989, and the two have spent much of the 1990's arguing over how to co-exist.
The firms began an arbitration hearing on Oct. 25 in New York. It will wrap up at the end of next week, Mr. Forehand said, and he expects a ruling early in 2000 on the future structure of the firms.
That could end a process that has kept some of Andersen's top partners busy with internal business rather than on revenue-producing work. "It has been a distraction for them," said C. Scott Hartz, the managing partner for global consulting at PricewaterhouseCoopers, a rival firm. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: ANDERSEN CONSULTING ACCENTURE PLC (95%); WEBVAN GROUP INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANDERSEN CONSULTING

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); ALABAMA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERVIEWS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (70%); COMPANY REVENUES (70%); 

PERSON: FOREHAND, JOE W; SHAHEEN, GEORGE T; LEONHARDT, DAVID ANN LIVERMORE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



23 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Dow Falls in Mixed Trading As Nasdaq Hits a New High

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices were mixed yesterday as traders and investors took some profits after the big run-up in market gauges over the last two weeks.
"It was a consolidation-type day," said Bryan Piskorowski, a market analyst at Prudential Securities. "There was a little bit of profit taking, and word of another earthquake in Taiwan got people a little scared and took a little of the froth out of the Nasdaq." 
 While some semiconductor stocks, including Intel, dropped after news of the quake flashed across trading screens, the Nasdaq composite index managed to eke out another record.
At the close, the Nasdaq was up 1.22 points, or four-hundredths of a percent, to 2,967.65. Early in the session, the index flirted with 3,000 and got as high as 2,997.90.
Meanwhile, big declines in two conglomerates, General Electric and Tyco International, helped to push the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down by 8.81 points, or seven-tenths of a percent, to 1,354.12. Tyco fell 4 9/16, to 35 9/16, and G.E. dropped 6 1/8, to 129 3/8.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which included four new stocks -- Intel, Microsoft, Home Depot and SBC Communications -- for the first time, slumped 81.35 points, or eight-tenths of a percent, to 10,648.51. Declines in G.E., American Express, down 5, to 149, and DuPont, down 2 3/8, to 62 1/16, were largely responsible for the drop in the blue-chip index.
Two of the new Dow stocks -- Intel and Microsoft -- fell yesterday, with Intel down 1 7/16, to 76, and Microsoft dipping 3/16, to 92 3/8. SBC Communications and Home Depot gained, with SBC rising 2 1/8, to 53, and Home Depot rising 1/2, to 76 1/4.
Small stocks had a solid session with the Russell 2000 index of small-company shares gaining 3.18 points, or seven-tenths of a percent, to 431.82.
The pace of business was fairly brisk for a Monday, although much reduced from the heavy traffic recorded at the end of last week.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 861 million shares. On the Nasdaq stock market, 1.07 billion shares changed hands.
Traders said it was likely that business would not pick up significantly until after the Government releases October employment numbers on Friday.
Despite yesterday's mixed performance, many participants and analysts are coming to the view that the weeks and months of uncertainty that have impeded a broad advance may be coming to an end.
"I tend to be biased toward being pretty positive," said Michael Molnar, a managing director in sales and trading at Salomon Smith Barney.
"I don't think there is a lot of risk to the market," he said. "Interest rate fears are largely overblown, and Y2K is the ultimate one-time event. As a business issue, people will start to look past it."
Ebbing concern that interest rates will move higher prodded Byron R. Wien, a United States equity strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, to commit some spare cash from his model stock portfolio to a handful of financial service stocks.
"I am still quite cautious on the overall market," Mr. Wien said yesterday. "This was a tactical move because I think we are in a benign interest rate environment."
Several factors favor financial stocks at the moment, Mr. Wien said, including the pending elimination of the Glass-Steagall Act, strong economic growth with minimal inflation and the sense that a decision by Federal Reserve policy makers to raise short-term interest rates on Nov. 16 may be the last such increase for some time.
Financial stocks, which have climbed in the last two weeks, retreated a bit yesterday.
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange/ KBW Bank Index, which had risen nearly 25 percent in two weeks, fell 10.68 points yesterday, or 1.2 percent, to 873.51.
Software companies had a good day, as investors began to focus on how they may help big companies transfer some of their business to the Internet.
Oracle and Siebel Systems, which sell customer-service and call-center software, were two big winners. Oracle gained 3 5/8, to 51 3/16. And Siebel jumped 7 7/8, to a record 117 11/16.
Telecommunications companies posted mixed results.
Sprint fell 2 5/16, to 72 1/4, after The Financial Times of London reported that the company faces seven lawsuits stemming from its agreement to be bought by MCI Worldcom.
But BellSouth, which lost the bidding war for Sprint, rose 2 3/16, to 47 3/16.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (91%); T (NYSE) (83%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); TYC (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (56%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (91%); AT&T INC (83%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (51%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ELECTRONICS (74%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); SEMICONDUCTORS (56%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N BYRON R WIEN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



24 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

White House Seeks Deal To Allow China Into W.T.O.
After a series of secret exchanges with Beijing during the last two weeks, the White House is racing to close a deal by the end of this month that it hopes would pave China's way into the World Trade Organization.
Senior Administration officials say there is a 50-50 chance they will be able to close the huge deal, which President Clinton views as his best shot at stabilizing American relations with China during his last year in office. Page A1. 

Chase Dismisses Currency Trader
Chase Manhattan said that its fourth-quarter trading revenue would be reduced by $60 million after the bank discovered that it had booked nonexistent trading profits. The bank has dismissed a currency trader involved in the matter. Chase's shares dropped $3.6875, or 4 percent, to $83.5625. Market Place. C8.
 
Online Retailers Turn to Television
Convinced that this Christmas season will be make-or-break, online retailers are in a costly race to bring their names to consumers through TV advertising. A1.
 
Bell Atlantic System Not Quite Open
The Justice Department said that Bell Atlantic had come close to fully opening its local networks in New York to competitors but had not quite made it, a condition for entering the long-distance market. C2.
 
AT&T argued before a Federal appeals court that Portland, Ore., exceeded its authority when it sought to force AT&T to open its cable lines to rival Internet service providers. A20.
 
 
Stocks Mixed; Nasdaq Hits Record
Stock prices were mixed, but the Nasdaq composite index eked out another record, rising 1.22 points, to 2,967.65. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell by 8.81 points, to 1,354.12, and the Dow Jones industrial average slumped 81.35 points, or eight-tenths of 1 percent, to 10,648.51. C9.
 
Yields of Treasury securities held near their four-week lows amid hopes that the Federal Reserve would not need to raise interest rates more than once in coming months to check inflation. The yield on the 30-year issue rose to 6.18 percent, from 6.16 percent on Friday. C9.
 
New Chief at Andersen Consulting
Andersen Consulting announced that Joe W. Forehand, a high-ranking partner with 27 years of experience at the firm, would be its new chief executive. He replaces George T. Shaheen, left, who departed in September to run Webvan Group, an Internet grocery delivery company. Mr. Forehand said that he planned to make e-commerce the central part of the consulting firm and that the company intended to take stakes in clients' businesses more frequently. C3.
 
Daimler to Test New Plastic Roofs
Taking a big step forward in the development of automobiles with plastic bodies, DaimlerChrysler said it would equip 5,000 of its Jeep Wranglers each year with lightweight, low-cost roofs made from a new kind of specially hardened plastic. C8.
 
McCaw Plans to Invest in ICO Global
Craig O. McCaw, the cellular telephone pioneer, said he had agreed to raise at least $1.2 billion to take ICO Global Communications, a struggling global satellite phone business, out of Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. C3.
 
Chairman of Daewoo Offers to Quit
Disgraced by the collapse of the business empire he founded 32 years ago, the chairman of Daewoo Group, Kim Woo Choong, submitted his resignation to the domestic creditors who are overseeing the sale of the South Korean conglomerate's vast array of heavily indebted businesses. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,648.51, down 81.35
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.18%, up 0.02
The euro -- $1.051, down 0.004
The dollar -- 104.19 yen, up 0.03
 
Graph tracks the share price of Chase Manhattan, since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (81%); WEBVAN GROUP INC (51%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); CABLE INDUSTRY (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); CHRISTMAS (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



25 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Assembly Races Draw Big Money and Little Interest

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Tuesday's election for New Jersey's 80 State Assembly seats is expected to earn the unenviable distinction of having both the highest cost and the lowest voter turnout of any State Legislature elections in New Jersey history.
With the state's economy booming, no national or statewide contests atop the ballot, and no burning political issues, many pollsters and analysts predict a turnout below 35 percent, possibly as low as 30 percent. Records at the state attorney general's office show that the lowest turnout on record for any statewide election was the last Assembly race in 1995, when 38 percent of voters cast ballots. 
 "People aren't even unhappy about auto insurance anymore, which is unheard of in New Jersey," said Gerald M. Pomper, a political science professor at Rutgers University. "To get people to vote you need a little bit of an incentive. But there's nothing driving people now, other than their sense of civic duty. I think there's a shot that this could be an all-time low in terms of turnout."
But that tepid interest on the part of the public hasn't slowed the flow of cash from contributors to candidates. Assembly candidates from both parties have already collected a whopping $9.8 million, according to Fred Herrmann of the New Jersey Election Law Enforcement Commission, and are on pace to surpass the $12.7 million that made the 1995 Assembly race the costliest in state history. Democrats were helped in their fund-raising efforts by President Clinton, whose appearance last month brought $500,000. Republican candidates collected hundreds of thousands of dollars in donations during a benefit featuring their party's presidential front-runner, George W. Bush.
Some advocacy groups blame the increasing amount of fund-raising for the drop in turnout, saying that dizzying sums of money driving the political process have disenfranchised many voters.
"Entities that don't even have a right to vote are giving money in ways that decide who wins and loses," said Steven Ma, who analyzed Assembly campaign contributions for the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group and found that political action committees, businesses and law firms accounted for 90 percent of all donations. "Citizens are running away from the civic arena. They're not voting because they believe their voice won't be heard through all that money."
Republicans, who hold a 48-to-32- majority, say they interpret the low turnout as a sign of voters' contentment. Steve Torpey, who is directing the Republicans' Assembly campaign, said he has tried to make the election a referendum on the improvement in the state's economy and quality of life since they won the majority in 1991. "We've cut taxes, there are more people working, crime is at a 20-year low, we've just voted to preserve a million acres of open space, and we've enacted insurance reform," Mr. Torpey said. "That's not a bad record to run on."
But Democrats still hold out faint hope that they can pull off unlikely upsets and recapture the nine seats needed to regain the majority. They contend that the economic recovery and drop in crime are part of a national trend and the result of Democratic leadership in the White House. Democrats say that just below the placid surface of New Jersey voters' moods runs a deep current of anxiety about the declining state of health care, New Jersey's high property taxes and troubled public schools. And they hope the Republicans' success in blocking a Democratic push to mandate "smart guns" will agitate antigun voters.
Even the most excitable political strategists expect incumbents to retain their positions in 70 or more of the 80 races, and Republicans hope they will hold all 48 of their seats. Several districts are considered competitive.
The most fiercely contested battle is in the Fourth District, in and around Camden, where Democrats have been issuing attack ads against Assemblymen Gerald Luongo. Mr. Luongo, who is also Washington Township mayor, was involved in a controversial land deal that benefited a group of investors with whom he has close ties. But pro-gun groups have rallied to defend Mr. Luongo and Assemblyman George Geist, the Republican who holds the other Assembly seat in the district, providing volunteers and telephone banks to urge thousands of gun owners in the district to turn out on election day.
Democrats are also hoping to unseat the Assembly majority leader, Paul DiGaetano, in the 36th District in Essex, Bergen and Passaic Counties, by focusing on gun control and campaign finance issues. Mr. DiGaetano has set a fund-raising record for New Jersey Assembly candidates by taking in $669,123, some of which was rolled over from his last campaign. Mr. DiGaetano said his contributions came from a wide array of donors, including nurses, teachers and other average New Jerseyans. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; VOTER BEHAVIOR CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LAWYERS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TAX LAW (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (56%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



26 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1774 words

HEADLINE: Private Acres in Public Parks Fuel Battles on Development

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: PAGOSA SPRINGS, Colo.

 BODY:
Nestled in the San Juan National Forest here in southwestern Colorado are a small rectangle of mountains and a valley that straddles the meandering East Fork of the San Juan River.
For now, the rectangle's 2,780 acres are indistinguishable from the surrounding landscape, a dream scene of 1.8 million pristine acres at the Continental Divide, where the only sounds are the water rushing over rocks, the wind and the occasional cry of birds high overhead. 
 But that is about to change.
Like more than 50 million other acres inside America's national parks and forests, only a fraction of the total, the rectangle of acreage is privately owned. It was one of thousands of land grants made available, in some cases almost 140 years ago, for homesteading, mining operations and railroads.
Although most of the private tracts remain undeveloped, here in the San Juan forest and with growing frequency elsewhere, owners of "inholdings," as they are known to the federal government, are developing acreage for commercial gain. That issetting off intense fights with preservation groups and community organizations concerned that development could damage the ecology by disturbing wildlife and scarring landscapes.
"It has become a major concern," Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt said of private development inside federally owned lands. "We need the resources to buy them out before problems start, and there are willing sellers for most of them. But we don't have the money, so the willing seller decides to sell on the open commercial market."
Owners of the rectangle here are planning to build a members-only resort on 200 acres that they call Piano Creek Ranch, where membership shares cost $385,000 to $535,000. Designed to accommodate 395 families, the resort would include spacious houses, lodges, a golf course and an equestrian center. A ski area would be built on another part of the rectangle. Already, 175 families have signed up, and groundbreaking is scheduled for next June, with completion planned in two years.
Preservationists say developments like Piano Creek represent only the beginning of a major problem throughout federal lands. It is "the undiscovered crisis," says the National Park Trust, a nonprofit group that buys land and donates it to the park system.
"This is one of the results of the booming economy and a lot of new disposable wealth," said Steve Thompson, senior vice president of the Trust for Public Land, another nonprofit organization that works to preserve national parks and forests.
"With population pressures and beautiful places disappearing, people of means are saying, 'I'll get my little corner of paradise,' and they do what they want with it," Mr. Thompson said. "They have the legal right to do it. But it's sad that resources that are so spectacular, so beautiful would not be made available to a broader audience, only to a limited group."
And with land prices soaring in areas within some of the country's more popular parks and forests, the federal government and nonprofit agencies that buy land for preservation may be unable to compete with private investors. Paul Pritchard, president of the National Park Trust, predicted that "in 5 or 10 years, we'll be priced out of the market in high-demand parks."
The private ownership rights were honored when Congress began designating national parks and forests in the 1890's, and through recent years, most of the land owners have either kept their tracts in a natural state or have sold them to the federal government for preservation.
Each year, the major federal land management agencies -- the National Forest Service, the National Park Service, the Bureau of Fish and Wildlife and the Bureau of Land Management -- provide Congress a list of privately held property they want to buy.
The park service list alone has a backlog of 10,184 private tracts in 145 parks -- more than one million acres in all -- that officials say would cost the government $1.35 billion to buy for preservation. The National Park Trust estimates that 20 percent of the privately held land within national parks and forests is "in imminent danger" of development.
But Congress never appropriates enough money to satisfy all the needs, so which properties are bought depends on the threat of development, the willingness of the owner to sell and the price. In recent years, Mr. Babbitt said, the four agencies have received a combined $300 million to $400 million annually for the acquisition of private land. As a result, conflicts are brewing throughout the country as more developers build on their land inside national parks and forests and market it for profit.
In the Maryland suburbs outside Washington, the National Park Service is trying to buy 88 acres within the Monocacy National Battlefield, a major Civil War site, to prevent any development of housing subdivisions and shopping centers.
The owners of 11,000 acres within the Bitteroot National Forest in western Montana resisted efforts to sell the land to the federal government and, instead, sold recently to a company headed by Craig Barrett, chief executive of the Intel Corporation. Mr. Barrett said his group did not intend to develop the land. But preservationists are skeptical and they complain that because the acreage is a patchwork of about 14 separate tracts, the private ownership makes it difficult for the federal government to manage the public lands around them.
In the Denali National Park and Preserve in Alaska, developers are planning to turn an old 20-acre mining site into a remote resort with 30 lodges. For access, which the federal government is required to provide, the developers are asking the park service to improve a 10-mile road through park land that would cross a valley creek 27 times. Park officials fear that the improvement will encourage other land holders to develop sites near the road.
Gettysburg National Military park in south-central Pennsylvania includes three privately held tracts, and park officials say that proposed commercial development would destroy the integrity of one of the most sacred battle sites of the Civil War.
Cattle grazing on 532 acres of private land around the Golden Spike National Historic Site in Utah, where rails from the east and west linked for the first time in 1869, is speeding up erosion, a process that officials say can be reversed only by buying the land.
Population growth in Arizona, one of the fastest growing states in the country, is threatening the Saguaro National Park, where the saguaro cactus has been known to grow as high as 50 feet and weigh as much as 8 tons. But in recent years, encroaching development has affected the cactus, and the park service wants to buy 250 surrounding acres as protection.
Those fights are similar to the conflict here. Dan McCarthy, a Chicago businessman and majority owner of the San Juan property, once considered building a large ski resort on the land but said he was persuaded by members of his family to abandon the plan because of the potential effect of the traffic and people. More recently, the 81-year-old Mr. McCarthy agreed to sell the tract to developers whose idea for a country-club-like project more suited his sensibilities.
"I'm extremely sensitive to the environment," he said in an interview. "And I am concerned about what happens to the East Fork after I die, whose hands it might be in. My kids like it the way it is, but someone might come along and they might feel like selling. I think this is the best practical answer."
A growing number of people disagree with him. While recognizing that as a property owner Mr. McCarthy can do whatever he wants with his tract, a coalition of environmental groups, Friends of the East Fork Valley, and residents of Pagosa Springs, the nearest town, have vowed to fight the project as inappropriate for the site.
They contend that the lavish resort would disrupt elk migration routes, threaten lynx, deer and other wildlife and destroy landscape that remains as it was when wagon trains rolled westward across the same access road that would serve the ranch.
"We keep thinking that every time you develop something, wildlife can go over the next hill into the next valley," said Mark Pearson, chairman of the Sierra Club's National Wildlands Committee. "Well, this is the last next valley. There is no other place wildlife can go."
Mr. Pearson is helping lead a campaign to stop, or at least delay, the Piano Ranch project by challenging developers as they seek permits from federal, state and local governments for necessities like road improvements, electric lines and sewage operations. Opponents also say they intend to appeal any approval by the Forest Service, which is required for construction to begin.
"This is a cancer in the heart of a national area," said Betty Feazel, 83, who has lived on an 800-acre ranch at the foot of the access road to the Piano Creek site since 1922 and remains a friend of Mr. McCarthy despite the development plans. "I don't think he realizes how much impact this thing is going to have. People are going to be crawling all over the whole area."
But Jo Bridges, a district ranger for the San Juan National Forest, said that unless an environmental study concluded that development of Piano Creek posed insurmountable problems to the forest, she would approve the project, as the first level of review, and "development will happen."
Mr. Pearson said that opponents of the development would appeal her approval to the Forest Service regional office, and if necessary, to headquarters in Washington. Beyond that, either side could appeal to the courts.
Gerald R. Sanders, chairman of the development company that is buying the land from Mr. McCarthy, said in an interview that if Mr. Pearson and others would only listen, they might be convinced that the impact of the project on the area would be small and certainly less than that of the ski resort once under consideration. Mr. Sanders said he thought the opponents' public campaign had been disingenuous, filled with half-truths and overstatements to attract more allies. He cited as an example assertions that the project would cover all 2,780 acres of the rectangle. That is wrong, he said.
"I know it's not easy to believe a developer, that I could have good intentions," Mr. Sanders said, pointing out that he could just as easily have built residential subdivisions. "But I am trying to protect the environment. I'm attracted to this area for the same reasons other people are. Environmentalists want to see the land remain pristine, and so do our members."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Plans for Piano Creek Ranch have drawn objections from Betty Feazel, who has lived in the area since 1922, and Mark Pearson of the Sierra Club. "This is a cancer in the heart of a national area," Ms. Feazel says. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. A20)
 
Map of Colorado highlighting Piano Creek Ranch: Piano Creek Ranch, a luxury resort, is planned for a private tract in the San Juan National Forest. (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (91%); 

COMPANY: PIANO CREEK RANCE (COLO) SIERRA CLUB (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PIANO CREEK RANCE (COLO) SIERRA CLUB (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JUAN NATIONAL FOREST (COLO); COLORADO; UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (91%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES NATIONAL PARKS (91%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); WILDLIFE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); SKIING (73%); GOLF (64%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (55%); MINES & MINING (54%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL BRUCE BABBITT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



27 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

HEADLINE: Voices Raised for the Poor

 BODY:
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign arrived at the United Nations yesterday after spending a month marching from Washington to New York. The group marched through some of the poorer neighborhoods on the East Coast to call for economic justice. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



28 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Speed It Up, but Watch Those Elbows

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
After various Knicks had been whistled for holding, grabbing and chucking with their forearms, the referees conducting a clinic on the new rules during training camp last month asked whether the players had any more questions regarding what the league expected of them from now on.
"Maybe we should be wearing tutus out there," one player said. 
 The 1999-2000 National Basketball Association opens today at about the same time the door on aggressive physical play is closing.
Commissioner David Stern wants and needs a more balletic style of play and more points to be scored to sell his product -- and fewer bullies to depress television ratings.
From rule changes to personnel shake-ups, the league is in the middle of a transformation. Losing ground is the plodding halfcourt style, which is being replaced by an up-tempo, end-to-end running game. And it is not just the Sacramento Kings and the nouveau Knicks. The fast break, dormant for much of the 1990's, is experiencing a sudden rejuvenation.
"That's the way everyone wants us to play, so I'll guess we'll just have to deal with it," said Coach Pat Riley of the Heat, whose brutish teams in New York and Miami were annually accused of bringing down the league's quality of play.
"It's not who we are. It's not our identity. And it will take us a while to adjust. But maybe it will be good for the league."
After a decade of declining scores and field-goal percentages, and dramatically improved defense, something had to change. Michael Jordan's former team, the Chicago Bulls, averaged a paltry 81.9 points a game last season, fewest in the league.
Nine teams averaged fewer than 90 points a game, including the Knicks and the Heat. Sacramento was the lone N.B.A. team to average more than 100 points. It is no coincidence that a former almost invisible N.B.A. outpost has become must-see television. The colorful Kings of Jason Williams and Chris Webber have already secured 20 national television appearances, including nine on NBC.
In explaining the network's decision-making process, Dick Ebersol, NBC Sports' president, recalled sitting up late one night in May and watching a playoff game on Turner Sports between the upstart Kings and the Utah Jazz.
"College or pro, it was the most extraordinary basketball game I'd seen all year," Ebersol said of Utah's last-second victory in Game 4. "It was a game we didn't even televise. People were making baskets, scoring on both ends. The offense was startling. That game was one of the reasons we made some of the scheduling decisions we made."
Aside from the defending champion San Antonio Spurs, Allen Iverson and the Philadelphia 76ers; Shaquille O'Neal, Kobe Bryant and the Los Angeles Lakers, and Allan Houston, Latrell Sprewell and the Knicks will be featured a maximum 11 times on NBC.
"I think that's what America wants to see," the Kings' Williams said recently. "We run. We have fun. We push it up the court. Growing up, that's what attracted people to the game. If we have anything to do with getting back to that, then that's good."
With many members of the original Dream Team closer to retirement than their primes -- Charles Barkley, Patrick Ewing, Scottie Pippen, John Stockton and Karl Malone among them -- it appears the league and the network have made a conscious decision to showcase rising young stars rather than fading, aging icons.
The Kings did not make an appearance on NBC during the regular season in the nine previous years of the network's contract with the league. An advertising campaign titled "It's Our Turn Now" aired during the World Series, featuring Iverson and Williams. Bryant and Kevin Garnett of Minnesota have also filmed commercial spots.
"I will always say a game that is centered at the very least on offense as much as it is defense makes for much better TV fare," Ebersol said. "There's no question we cherish a wide-open game and we believe in a lot of these young players."
After Magic Johnson and Larry Bird retired, Jordan's transcendent popularity masked many of the league's quality-of-play problems. Now that Jordan has been gone from the game since the abbreviated season that began last January, the league seems to understand the need to return to more free-flowing, fluid offenses to increase fan interest. It is a marriage of simple economics and aesthetically pleasing play.
"I'm not sure it's right to say we've acted in concert or that the game is going to dramatically change," Stern said. "The network's decisions are based on research and judgment. And our owners have decided they'd like to return a less physical, more open game."
The rule changes involving excessive contact were by far the greatest indicator that the game had become too physical. But not everyone is in agreement that they will help the quality of the game.
"I'm not so sure that it's going to be the answer," said Lakers Coach Phil Jackson, who also decried the adding of a timeout in the second period, believing it will impede the flow of a game. "We hope it is because we like to see more cutting and movement on the floor, less physical holding, contact of bodies and physical play being the dominant factor, rather than speed and mobility. Some of the rules have been enforced very well. Some haven't because it's a very difficult thing for the referees to make that adjustment."
Geoff Petrie, the Kings' general manager, was named executive of the year last season by his peers for trading for Webber, draft Williams and acquire the offensive-minded center, Vlade Divac. Putting together a team of entertaining passers and scorers, Petrie seemed to also see the changing landscape of a league literally in transition. "The classic example of the running game flourishing would be the Knicks of the early 1970's," Petrie said recently. "They had five or six really skilled players, and each had the ability to do more than just one thing. Now we have all these specialists, and suddenly the game has drifted."
He added: "I can't say I or anybody else went out and decided to build a running team. But I knew early on we were going to be able to play up-tempo. Do I think the rule changes and getting back to running are good for the game? Definitely."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: As the game gears for its fast-paced resurgence, the 76ers' Allen Iverson will have no problem fitting in. (Associated Press)(pg. D2); The Kings, with rising stars like Jason Williams, were the only team to average more than 100 points last season. (Hector Amezcua/The Sacramento Bee)(pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (85%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); TEXAS, USA (50%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); TURNER SPORTS INC (51%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (85%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (85%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (85%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); TEXAS, USA (50%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (93%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (69%); TOURNAMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



29 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: There Goes the Airspace? Clintons Close on a House

BYLINE: By DEBRA WEST 

DATELINE: CHAPPAQUA, N.Y., Nov. 1

 BODY:
President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton closed on their $1.7 million house here today without attending the closing, but their presence was felt in the neighborhood long before they signed the papers and wrote the checks.
Last Tuesday, the Town Board of New Castle, which includes the hamlet of Chappaqua, passed a law requiring that protesters obtain a permit before demonstrating along its quiet woodsy roads. And last month, officials from the Secret Service and the Federal Aviation Administration met to discuss increasing the altitude at which planes must fly over the Clintons' new house, which is under the landing path to the busy Westchester County Airport. "We may have to put up with the demonstrations, but we won't have the noise from the planes," said Clinton B. Smith, the New Castle town supervisor. "So I guess we'll take the good with the bad." 
 The Clintons' lawyers handled the details of the closing today at the Manhattan law firm Battle Fowler. The loan, for $1.36 million, is a 30-year adjustable-rate mortgage, starting with an annual interest rate of 7.5 percent for three years, said Jim Kennedy, a White House spokesman. The loan, from the PNC Mortgage, a subsidiary of PNC Bank Corporation of Pittsburgh, allowed the Clintons to call off a much-criticized arrangement with a Democratic Party fund-raiser, Terry McAuliffe, who had guaranteed an earlier loan with $1.35 million of his money as collateral.
In the new mortgage, the Clintons put up a 20 percent down payment, or $340,000. Neither of the Clintons attended the closing, and they did not say when they planned to move in.
But owning property does not necessarily a New Yorker make.
Though she now officially owns about an acre in New York State, Mrs. Clinton was not considered a New Yorker by 69 percent of the people questioned between Oct. 23 and Oct. 28 for a New York Times/CBS poll, and 43 percent thought she could not effectively represent New York in the Senate without having lived here for many years.
But to some people in Chappaqua, however, the newcomers already seem like a lingering headache.
For months, the New Castle Town Board has considered creating a law to regulate an onslaught of demonstrations they expect the Clintons' presence to invite. The board began considering the law in September after a small group of demonstrators marched in front of the house, a white clapboard colonial on Old House Lane, to protest mass killings in East Timor. The Clintons had not moved in and the couple they bought the house from had not moved out.
"We have to know what's coming," Mr. Smith said of the need for the new law, which requires organizers of demonstrations and parades of more than 10 people to apply for a permit at least a week in advance. "We have to make sure we don't have overlapping demonstrations. Otherwise it could overwhelm the police and disrupt traffic. Besides, if I'm a protester holding a sit-down demonstration in the middle of Route 117, I'm going to hope that somebody's around the bend telling cars to slow down."
When most people buy a house, they have to consider the impact that a nearby airport might have on their lives. In the Clintons' case, the airport has to worry. The house is about a mile from the landing beacon that pilots follow to approach the Westchester County Airport in bad weather. Depending on the altitude requirement, the Clintons' presence could have a significant impact, said Berl Brechner, president of the Westchester Aviation Association, which represents 170 corporate and private plane owners who use the airport.
The Westchester County Airport is no sleepy little windblown strip. It handles 200,000 annual takeoffs and landings and a million passengers a year on commercial airlines, corporate jets and privately owned planes, Mr. Brechner said. To land safely on Runway 16, which 90 percent of the planes use, pilots have to fly about 2,000 feet above sea level or, because of Chappaqua's hilly terrain, about 1,500 feet above the Clintons' house, Mr. Brechner estimated. Any flight restriction requiring pilots to fly higher would mean the approach to the airport would have to be changed. Changing the direction of the landing approach carries the risk of a plane's encountering dangerous tailwinds, Mr. Brechner said.
"You would have thought that somebody would have considered the impact on everything in the vicinity in making the decision where to buy a presidential house," said Mr. Brechner, a broadcaster who flies his own single-engine Mooney 231, a four-seater. "I suppose the first family is entitled to live wherever they want, but now we are left dealing with the potential consequences."
James Peters, a spokesman for the F.A.A., said the Secret Service had not yet requested that the F.A.A. study the potential impact a flight restriction in the area. Given that the Clintons now own the house, the Secret Service is expected to make that request shortly.
There are flight restrictions over the White House, the Capitol, Camp David, the vice president's house and George Washington's home at Mount Vernon. Flight restrictions over the private homes of presidents and former presidents are not uncommon, Mr. Peters said. There have been no-fly zones imposed over the homes of all of the presidents in recent memory except Gerald Ford, Mr. Peters said. Most restrictions remain in place for several years after a president has left office.
The only restriction on flying over a former president's home that is currently remaining, however, is over former President George Bush's home in Kennebunkport, Me. That restriction prohibits flying below 1,000 feet when Mr. Bush is not present and prohibits flying below 3,000 feet when Mr. Bush is at home.
"When the Clintons were in New York City for Hillary's birthday party and fund-raiser, they had a no-fly zone that reached 2,000 to 3,000 feet," Mr. Brechner said. "If they did that in Westchester, it would be outrageous."
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (67%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; CHAPPAQUA (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; AIR RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); LAWYERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); AIRLINES (71%); ELECTION LAW (71%); AIRPORTS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); RIOTS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WEST, DEBRA; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); JAMES KENNEDY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



30 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Backs European Effort To Send Heating Oil to Serbs

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
The Clinton administration, worried that it could be blamed if Serbs freeze to death in the winter, has decided to support a European-run pilot program to send millions of dollars worth of heating oil to Serbia, senior administration officials said today.
If the pilot program goes well, Washington will consider helping to expand the oil deliveries. 
 "We want to be supportive of any proposal that meets humanitarian requirements and can assist the opposition, so long as we are not bolstering the regime," said James P. Rubin, a spokesman for the State Department. He added that the United States already provided tens of millions of dollars to international groups toward that end.
At first the administration had opposed the European proposal, fearing that President Slobodan Milosevic would divert the oil to his business cronies or to the Serbian military. The administration also feared that by alleviating the hardships of a cold winter, the oil might diminish public protests against his government.
But American officials said they had decided to back the European plan for humanitarian reasons, and with an understanding that the oil would go to two cities in southeastern Serbia that are governed by opponents of Mr. Milosevic's Socialist Party.
In the middle of the month, the European Union agreed to supply $5 million of heating oil and to pay to transport it to the cities, Nis and Pirot, beginning this month.
If the project is seen as a success, the officials said, the United States will consider supporting -- and helping pay for -- an expansion to other cities. Serbia is faced with devastating energy shortages after the NATO air war over Kosovo destroyed petroleum refineries.
Administration officials said the United States remained firmly opposed to other proposals by European nations to end the economic and diplomatic isolation of Serbia, most importantly one to allow international airlines to resume flights to Belgrade, the Serbian capital.
A delegation of high-ranking Serbian opposition leaders who are now visiting the United States has been pressing for American support for the shipments of heating oil. They are also trying to display their solidarity before Washington and to portray Mr. Milosevic as a wounded leader.
Members of the group, which is expected to meet Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and White House officials this week, say the oil is needed to prevent a human disaster.
"Without it, people will freeze to death," said Mayor Zoran Zivkovic of Nis, a delegation member. "If the heating oil is not provided, it will be a great victory for Milosevic, because it will just reinforce the position that the West hates all Serbs."
The delegation leader, Dragoslav Avramovic, a former governor of the Central Bank and a candidate for prime minister in any transitional government in Serbia, said Mr. Milosevic was far weaker politically than he was often portrayed in the West.
"The economic situation of Milosevic is desperate," Mr. Avramovic said. "Prices are increasing 10 percent a week, which is 50 percent a month, and it is difficult to see how the regime will survive. He is now the obstacle to the recovery of Yugoslavia."
The president of the Democratic Party, Zoran Djindjic, said he was convinced that Mr. Milosevic would soon be ousted from office, despite his willingness in recent weeks to use violence to put down antigovernment street demonstrations.
"Milosevic is history," he said, drawing comparisons to the final days of President Nicolae Ceausescu of Romania and President Suharto of Indonesia.
"A dictator must be strong or he doesn't exist," he said. "Ceausescu was very strong until two days before his execution. Suharto was strong a month before he was gone. Milosevic now is like a fireman with five different fires, and with very little water."
The delegation is also trying on its visit here to put an end to the perception in Washington that the Serbian opposition is fragmented and that it is incapable of offering a serious alternative to Mr. Milosevic and his loyalists.
"The genuine opposition is not divided," said Vladan Batic, coordinator of the Alliance for Change, an opposition group that has organized many of the recent demonstrations that have drawn tens of thousands of antigovernment protesters to the streets of Belgrade.
Mr. Djindjic, a philosopher who was imprisoned in the 1980's for trying to establish an independent student organization in Serbia, said it no longer mattered whether there were policy or personality disputes among the opposition parties.
"The parties are not important now," he said. "The people on the streets are now the opposition." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); KOSOVO (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION CENTRAL BANK (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); KOSOVO (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; HEATING; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); GOVERNORS (56%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SHENON, PHILIP BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



31 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Seeks China Deal On Trade by Month's End

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
After a series of secret exchanges with Beijing over the last two weeks, the White House is hoping to close a deal by the end of this month that could pave China's way into the World Trade Organization, even if Congress cannot pass judgment on the agreement until next year.
Spurred by a telephone call from President Clinton to President Jiang Zemin of China late on the night of Oct. 16, the United States and China have since engaged in what one official called an "intense set of interactions." Nonetheless, senior administration officials say, there is only a 50-50 chance that they will be able to close the deal, which Mr. Clinton regards as his best shot at stabilizing American relations with China during his last year in office. 
 The White House has not described the two leaders' conversation nor an internal strategy debate presided over by the White House chief of staff, John Podesta, about how to close the elusive deal. But according to Chinese and American officials, Mr. Clinton offered during the call to make the first move to break a long stalemate in the talks, volunteering to send China's leaders the details of an agreement he characterized as Washington's bottom line.
The details of that offer are being closely guarded, but areas up for discussion include telecommunications, financial services, textiles and sanctions in retaliation for the dumping of exports, among others.
The initiative indicates how desperately Mr. Clinton is trying to put back together the far-reaching China trade deal he walked away from in April, a move his aides say he deeply regrets.
While some in the White House say the April terms would still not satisfy the administration, one top official remarked last week that "if we could get it again, we'd probably take it and run."
The time of greatest American leverage in striking a deal is fast approaching, as Mr. Clinton prepares to open a meeting of the world's trade ministers in Seattle on Nov. 30. That session is expected to set the agenda for a new round of global trade talks that will take years -- and which China can only help influence if it is clear that it is about to join the group that sets the terms of world trade.
Negotiations on China's entry into the World Trade Organization and the predecessor General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade have been going on for more than 13 years.
Once China is in the organization, it will be required to abide by the group's extensive rules on opening markets -- meaning it would have to allow in far more foreign investors, farm goods and providers of services. That would likely result in a boon for American companies, which have been lobbying hard for this agreement. But it would also reduce Washington's ability to impose its own sanctions on China because the Chinese could use the trade forum's court to arbitrate disputes.
Since Mr. Clinton's phone conversation with President Jiang, trade officials have been working to put together the draft of an agreement, based on the American understanding of the deal that did not come to fruition in April.
But the process is made harder by continuing disagreements between China and the United States about exactly what concessions China's prime minister, Zhu Rongji, brought with him on that trip.
Moreover, the White House's decision to publish a long list of those concessions so inflamed some powerful Chinese business executives and their political patrons that Beijing has been forced to pull back, according to people informed on the negotiations.
For example, it is no longer clear that China is still willing to let American companies own 51 percent of its telecommunications providers. But if the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, struck a deal that gave American phone companies less of an inroad into the booming Chinese communications market, she would have to make the case that she had extracted other concessions that went beyond China's offer in April.
"They clearly still want a deal and want it soon," an administration official who has been in touch with the Chinese said recently. "But it's becoming clear it won't be exactly the same deal. The politics have changed."
One of the questions that the White House has not yet resolved is whether Mr. Jiang is still committed to striking a deal, especially at a time he is under growing economic pressure at home. Mr. Clinton was frustrated in New Zealand early in September, when the Chinese president was slow in restarting negotiations.
His Oct. 16 call was followed a week later with a trip to China by Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers. While Mr. Summers was not sent to negotiate -- President Jiang and China's top trade negotiators were all in Europe -- he saw Prime Minister Zhu, and after a three-hour meeting reported that the embattled prime minister was still committed and eager for China to join the trade organization. The competitive pressure created by opening China's markets, Mr. Zhu once again told Mr. Summers, would help spur China's own reforms.
But the pragmatic prime minister's domestic political adversaries have seized upon the list of concessions the White House published in April to help undermine a deal. And American diplomats say Chinese leaders seem concerned that Mr. Clinton, in the last year of his presidency, lacks the ability to push a deal through Congress.
Both houses would have to approve a change in the Jackson-Vanik amendment of the mid-1970's, which requires Congress to review China's trade status annually, a vote that gives many in Congress a chance to voice their disapproval of China's human rights record, its posture toward Taiwan, or its ballooning trade surplus with the United States.
Favored trade status would be implicit in any deal that got China into the World Trade Organization. But under one scenario being discussed in Ms. Barshefsky's office, Washington would reach an agreement with China but invoke a seldom-used provision of World Trade Organization rules that would prevent the Chinese from enjoying some trade benefits with the United States until there was a vote in Congress.
"I think we could get a deal through Congress even in an election year," Representative David Dreier, Republican of California, said in an interview last week. "If American industry says it's a good deal, I think that would be enough."
Ms. Barshefsky is being unusually tight-lipped about the talks, which would be the biggest trade deal in her tenure and a major part of Mr. Clinton's foreign policy legacy. She does not want to appear too eager to strike an agreement, always a dangerous negotiating stance. And her influence in the White House remains murky: Her advice that Mr. Clinton take the April deal was overruled, after then-Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and other officials said it could not get through Congress.
Today, though, Ms. Barshefsky said she expected formal talks with China to resume this month. "We have got to see," she said, when asked about the possibility of a deal. "I'm neither an optimist nor a pessimist."
"There is quite a bit of work to do as we look ahead," she added, noting that China would also have to conclude deals with Canada and with Europeans and Latin Americans, though these might follow whatever agreement was struck with Washington. Some officials close to Ms. Barshefsky say she may travel to China before the Seattle trade meeting if there is sufficient progress to suggest that a deal could be wrapped up in time for Mr. Clinton to announce it at Seattle.
Ms. Barshefsky has two big hurdles to clear. One concern is textiles: At a moment when the United States is urging other countries to drop trade barriers, she is under pressure from members of Congress representing textile-manufacturing states to force Beijing to agree to an extension on import quotas and tariffs on Chinese fabrics. China is resisting, but may agree in return for other concessions from the United States.
Then there is a bigger stumbling block: Beijing's insistence that Washington give up its ability to invoke sanctions against Chinese products that it determines are being dumped at below-market prices in the United States. The matter is considered vital by labor unions, which insist that anti-dumping measures are critical to saving factory jobs. They are already putting pressure on Vice President Al Gore, who has courted them assiduously, to protect their interests in any deal.
Mr. Gore, his aides say, has no intention of getting near the Seattle meeting. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JIANG ZEMIN (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN PODESTA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



32 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: Aid to the Arts: Who Gains

 BODY:

To the Editor:
When patrons' money underwrites art, interest is always factored in. Did wealthy benefactors commission innumerable portraits, landscapes and still lives during the Renaissance to help the careers of artists or to massage their own egos and trumpet their economic superiority? Why does it seem as if companies today subsidize the arts in direct proportion to the amount of damage their products do? 
 Patrons have never acted altruistically. Your Oct. 31 front-page article about the Brooklyn Museum of Art's quest to subsidize the exhibition "Sensation" merely spotlights the most recent episode in an increasingly complex and sometimes ethically fuzzy enterprise.
 
STEVEN C. DUBIN
New York, Nov. 1, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1999



33 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Dangerous Curves: The New Banquettes

BYLINE: By AMANDA HESSER

 BODY:
THE deep, curved banquette at Union Pacific is the most alluring table in the room: plush and cozy, dimly lighted. And if you are lucky enough to get it, you nestle into your own little pod, protected yet part of the passing scene, and feel smugly content. You know you have snagged the best table.
There's just one problem. Once you're in, there's no easy way out. Escaping from the cushioned embrace of a banquette may be dining's most awkward moment, requiring a wriggling contortion that's about as graceful as exiting the center seat on a 747. 
 It's a maneuver New Yorkers are coming to know all too well, as restaurants around the city fill their rooms with more banquettes, bigger banquettes, banquettes of all shapes and sizes. Partly it's fashion: the curvy, round banquette is the style of the moment in restaurant design. But it's economics, too: restaurateurs can fit many more seats into a room when they use the sofalike banquettes instead of chairs.
At many new restaurants, banquettes outnumber freestanding tables. They line the walls, lurk in corners, make sculptural statements as centerpieces to their rooms.
Jacks Fifth, a new restaurant in Midtown, could be described as one big banquette. There they border the room, with a cluster of balloon-shaped ones anchoring the center. Atlas, on Central Park South, is filled with small, firm banquettes. The oval corner ones at Cello are like softly framed box seats with high, mist-green mohair backs. At the new Sono, on East 57th Street, a circular banquette two steps up overlooks the entire dining room.
"People kill to sit in those seats," said Gabriel Blanco, a manager at Celadon, where oval banquettes stand in the entranceway like a chorus.
There's no denying that initial attraction. Next to a grounded, thronelike banquette, an unmoored table can seem like driftwood at sea. At a table, diners can hide nothing. Clothing hangs at their sides in loose flaps. They have to sit up straight. There is no hand-holding under the table. In a banquette, people slouch or preen against a high, velvety backdrop. They cling together in romantic huddles, or sit back and take in the view. Once in a while, as I've noticed in the Oak Room, they even nap.
"I like that it's back to the womb," said Sylvia Weinstock, the owner of Sylvia Weinstock Cakes, and a regular in City Hall's round banquettes.
Actually, banquettes were designed to encourage just the opposite feeling. They emerged in Europe in the heyday of cafe society. People went out to see and be seen, to hear and be heard. Tables were close and could be pulled together, people could socialize with diners next door. Adam Tihany, the designer of Jean Georges and Le Cirque 2000, said it best: "They're borderless."
For New Yorkers, that intimacy seems to breed an unusual openness. The same people who wouldn't think twice about cutting in front of you at the coat check are transformed when seated at banquette tables squeezed close together.
Julie Bain, an editor at In Style magazine, prefers banquettes for just this reason. Recently in the lipstick-red banquettes at Heartbeat, in the W New York Hotel, she and her companion found themselves chatting with diners on both sides of them. "I've even had strangers taste my food and vice versa, trading bites," she said.
Most restaurants have a different sort of togetherness in mind. Banquettes, particularly the straight European ones lined up flush against a wall, maximize seating. A normal table needs a valuable few inches behind the seat for getting in and out. By using banquettes, Mr. Tihany said he can fit 15 to 20 percent more tables in a room. Round or elliptical banquettes are less efficient. But they are great space fillers for corners and have a way of making the typically dark, inhospitable corner inviting.
Restaurants are favoring curvy circular and elliptical banquettes, and in every part of the room. "They're really big pieces of furniture that really connect you to the idea of the sofa," said David Rockwell, whose restaurant designs include Heartbeat and Nobu. He pointed out that they anchor a room better than anything else. "Sitting in a banquette gives people a great vantage point to look at the room, and visually, you're surrounding the dining room with beautiful fabrics," he said, adding, "It kind of gives the psychological feel of sitting around the kitchen table."
A very large kitchen table. At the future Do Hwa in the West Village, the brown leather backs of the banquettes will rise seven feet high. The corner one at Osteria del Circo can seat eight -- enough for a board meeting. Packed, it is fun, unless you happen to be the poor person in the middle. To let you out, either the entire table must be moved or half your party must get up.
It's a spectacle that has aroused the pity of designers and restaurateurs. Mr. Ashworth and Mr. Tihany have begun to make banquettes with seat bottoms of leather and smooth materials. After 14 years of textured upholstery and comments from women, Danny Meyer has gone with leather for the banquette at Union Square Cafe. But some problems will never be resolved.
"A banquette to me is more intimate than I usually need," said Alan Roberts, a consultant to law firms. At business meals, in particular.
Matthew Murray, a floor broker at the New York Stock Exchange, agreed. "I don't like touching the person next to me," he said. "Even if it's my wife, who I've been married to for 34 years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A TRAP, BUT SO COMFORTABLE -- Banquettes, like the oval ones at Celadon, left, and the large circular ones at City Hall, right, are popular with diners and restaurateurs alike. But they can also be difficult to wriggle out of, especially when a large group is dining together. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times ; Carol Halebian for The New York Times (left))(pg. F6); SNUG -- "People kill to sit in those seats," a New York restaurateur said about banquettes. Left, one at Atlas on Central Park South. (David Corio for The New York Times)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (70%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESTAURANTS (90%); 

PERSON: ADAM TIHANY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



34 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 35 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE EURO GAINS. The euro rose against the dollar on speculation that the European Central Bank would raise interest rates on Thursday. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0515, up from $1.0506 on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the dollar to the euro, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); INTEREST RATES (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



35 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Online Sales Of Savings Bonds

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
An Internet site called the Savings Bond Connection opened today to allow people to buy savings bonds online at all hours seven days a week.
"It never used to be possible to buy a savings bond at 2 in the morning on a Tuesday; now it will be," said Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, who introduced the Web site at a news conference. 
 The Series EE bonds, which sell for half their face value, will be available in denominations from $50 to $1,000. Series I bonds, which carry a lower interest rate but are adjusted to reflect inflation, will be sold in $50 to $500 denominations.
To buy savings bonds online, consumers must go to www.savingsbonds.gov and link to a page to conduct a transaction. Online buyers must provide information, including name, Social Security number and mailing address, just as they do when they buy bonds at financial institutions.
Bonds bought on the Internet must be bought by credit card. For now, only MasterCard and Visa will be accepted. After orders are processed, the bonds will be mailed to buyers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: V (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

COMPANY: VISA INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET BONDS (96%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); CREDIT CARDS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



36 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Joseph R. Gregory

 BODY:

ASIA
 
SRI LANKA: REBELS BREAK THROUGH -- Tamil rebels overran a government outpost at Oddusuddan, 155 miles north of Colombo, the capital, killing more than 150 soldiers and wounding 400 others, a military official said. The army said many rebels were killed but could not give an exact number. The casualties were the worst since September 1998, when more than 1,000 soldiers died in fighting along a highway that links the capital to Jaffna. The latest attack came as a Tamil member of Parliament, Ramesh Nadarajah, who supported the rebels, was shot dead in Colombo. (AP) 

BANGLADESH: EX-PREMIER SENTENCED -- A former prime minister, Kazi Zafar Ahmed, was sentenced to 15 years in prison for embezzling funds intended for a new cancer hospital. Mr. Zafar, who served from 1988 to 1990, was said by his Jatiya Party to be in Australia for medical treatment. (AP)
 
CHINA: CATHOLIC BISHOP ARRESTED -- The police have arrested Bishop Jia Zhiguo of the underground Roman Catholic Church, the Cardinal Kung Foundation of Stamford, Conn., said. The group said the bishop was detained on Aug. 15 in northern Hebei Province. The police have denied his arrest. China frequently imprisons Catholics who refuse to take part in the state-approved church, set up in the 1950's. (AP)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: PRESS COURT RULINGS -- A newspaper editor, Mashallah Shamsolvaezin, was arrested for defying an order by the conservative press court to appear on charges of insulting Islam in a pro-reform newspaper that the court banned six weeks ago. The court also sentenced two students to three-year jail terms, and a third to six months, for a satirical play published in a campus journal in September that the court found to have insulted Islam. John F. Burns (NYT)
 
AFGHANISTAN: NO DEAL WITH U.S. -- Osama bin Laden will very likely remain in Afghanistan after the United States rejected an offer by the suspected terrorist to leave for a secret destination, a spokesman for the ruling Taliban said. Washington is demanding that Mr. bin Laden be handed over for trial on charges that he masterminded the bombings last year at two American embassies in Africa. Afghanistan faces United Nations sanctions if it does not deliver him by Nov. 14. (AP)
 
EUROPE
 
YUGOSLAVIA: MONTENEGRO ADOPTS MARK -- Montenegro decided to make the German mark legal tender alongside the Yugoslav dinar to protect the republic from economic turmoil in Serbia. The decision was the first concrete step by Montenegro to turn away from the Serbian-dominated Yugoslav federation. Victor Homola (NYT)
 
SPAIN: ARGENTINES INDICTED -- Judge Baltasar Garzon indicted 98 Argentines for genocide, terrorism and torture during the years of military rule, from 1976 to 1983. Buenos Aires has refused to cooperate with the judge, who has sought the extradition of Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean leader now being held in Britain. Al Goodman (NYT)
 
SPAIN: DEATH PENALTY PROTEST -- Protesters held demonstrations in Madrid and nine other cities to demand the release of the only Spaniard on death row in the United States. Joaquin Jose Martinez, 27, sentenced to death in 1997 for a double murder in 1995, has appealed to the Florida Supreme Court. Al Goodman (NYT)
 
ARMENIA: REBUILDING LEADERSHIP -- Armenia's Parliament chose a new speaker and two deputy speakers, replacing colleagues who were killed along with Prime Minister Vazgen Sarksian last Wednesday. President Robert Kocharian said after the election of Armen Khachatrian as speaker that a new government would take shape soon. (Reuters)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: RIGHTS LAWYER ATTACKED -- International human rights groups called on the Government to ensure the safety of Digna Ochoa, a lawyer who was tied up, beaten and interrogated during a nine-hour ordeal on Friday by assailants who broke into her home in Mexico City. Ms. Ochoa and her organization, the Miguel Agustin Pro Juarez Human Rights Center, have suffered serious harassment in the last year. Julia Preston (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
SOUTH AFRICA: ZULU PRINCE SLAIN -- Cyril Zulu, a 35-year- old Zulu prince and African National Congress leader who tried to broker peace between political rivals in the fractious KwaZulu-Natal Province, was shot dead near his home in Lamontville, south of Durban. Violence between the A.N.C., which controls the national government, and the Inkatha Freedom Party, which controls the provincial government in KwaZulu-Natal, dropped off after the 1994 elections but still flares up periodically. Henri E. Cauvin (NYT)
 
NIGERIA: MORE ETHNIC CLASHES -- Fighting between the Yoruba and the Ijaw has left 15 dead in Lagos in recent days. The deaths apparently stemmed from disputes in the oil-producing Niger Delta region between the Ijaw and a Yoruba subgroup called the Ilaje. Fighting among Nigeria's hundreds of ethnic groups has intensified in recent months, especially in the Niger Delta, which remains desperately poor despite its large oil deposits. Norimitsu Onishi (NYT)
 
UNITED NATIONS
 
CONCERN OVER AFRICANS -- As of January, Africa had nearly 6.3 million people of concern to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, including 3.3 million refugees, 1.6 million displaced people and 1.3 million former refugees. This is a million fewer than in 1998. The agency said that, this year, Sierra Leone had the most refugees, 410,900. Christopher S. Wren (NYT)
 Compiled by Joseph R. Gregory
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Map

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MONTENEGRO (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); CHINA (93%); SRI LANKA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); AUSTRALIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HEBEI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (84%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (84%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTENEGRO (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); CHINA (93%); SRI LANKA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); AUSTRALIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HEBEI, CHINA (58%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); TERRORISM (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); INDICTMENTS (88%); EXTRADITION (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TALIBAN (77%); PRISONS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (69%); EMBEZZLEMENT (69%); GENOCIDE (69%); AL-QAEDA (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (65%); GERMAN MARK (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



37 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
The gospel according to Greenspan: rising home prices.

BYLINE: By Richard W. Stevenson

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ALAN GREENSPAN, the Federal Reserve chairman, said today that in some ways surging home prices give a greater kick to the economy than rising stock prices do.
Mr. Greenspan has pointed out with increasing frequency that the real estate market influences the personal finances of many households as much as, if not more, than the stock market does. In a speech today to America's Community Bankers, the trade group for the savings and loan industry, Mr. Greenspan fleshed out his point, relying in part on data from internal Federal Reserve studies. 
 By most measures, he said, gains in the stock market remain more important to increases in consumer spending than those from housing or any other asset market. The appreciation of stock prices has been "vastly greater" than that of home prices, he said, noting that housing accounted for one-sixth of what economists call the wealth effect -- the tendency of consumers to spend rather than hold or reinvest some of the gains they reap from rising asset values. The rest came overwhelmingly from Wall Street.
But he said the influence of rising home values on the economy would most likely grow in coming years. And he said that on a dollar for dollar basis, gains from the sale of a home translate into bigger increases in consumer spending than do gains from rising equity values, probably because consumers view rising house prices as much more of a sure thing than rising stock prices.
Stock market gains permanently lift the level of consumer outlays by 3 percent to 4 percent of the value of the gain, while the permanent increase in spending that results from gains in housing wealth appears to be about 5 percent, Mr. Greenspan said.
"The major reason for these significant differences in spending out of household wealth is doubtless that, while home prices do on occasion decline, large declines are rare," Mr. Greenspan said. The general experience for most homeowners, he said, "is a modest but persistent rise in home values that is perceived to be largely permanent."
The consistency of gains from housing stands in sharp contrast to "volatile and often ephemeral gains in stock market wealth," Mr. Greenspan said.
Moreover, he said, most big gains in the stock market go to people in the highest income groups, whose spending patterns do not change much based on how their investments are doing. Capital gains from housing are concentrated further down the income scale, where they are more likely to be translated into higher spending levels.
Mr. Greenspan did not make any comment on the level of stock prices, and he did not give any clue as to whether the central bank will raise interest rates for a third time this year when its policy-setting committee meets in two weeks.
Instead, his remarks took a long-term view of trends in the housing industry and amounted to another session in Mr. Greenspan's long-running seminar on the forces reshaping the economy.
Over the years, the Fed chairman said, the portion of all home sales accounted for by newly built homes has declined, to about 16 percent in the last five years from 40 percent three decades ago. The reason is that new-home building tracks the growth rate in household formation, which has been declining.
During the 1990's, single-family home starts have averaged 1.10 million a year, down from 1.14 million in the 1970's, Mr. Greenspan said. Annual sales of existing homes have averaged about 4 million during the 1990's, he said, up from 2.8 million in the 1970's.
"The trend has important implications for economic activity beyond its impact on home building, because the sale of a newly constructed home does not generate capital gains financed through the mortgage market," Mr. Greenspan said. "Sales of existing homes almost always do, and the purchasing power released through converting home equity to unencumbered cash can affect overall consumer demand and the economy, just as the stock market gains of recent years have boosted consumption."
The Fed's research shows that the average capital gain over the last five years on the sale of an existing home, after accounting for transaction costs, was more than $25,000. Homeowners also tapped into their equity through home equity loans and by refinancing their loans in a way that allowed them to take some of their equity gains as cash, he said.
"To the average seller of an existing home, the equity extracted net of transaction costs generally far exceeds the down payment on his or her next home purchase," Mr. Greenspan said. A significant amount of the money, he added, "is spent on consumer goods, especially on big ticket items in a manner not materially different from windfall income in general."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY HOME PRICES (94%); REAL ESTATE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMUNITY BANKS (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



38 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Danger at the Crossroads

BYLINE: By Sheila N. Heslin; Sheila N. Heslin was the director for Russian, Ukrainian and Eurasian affairs at the National Security Council in 1995 and 1996.

DATELINE: BETHESDA, Md.

 BODY:
When President Clinton met yesterday with Vladimir Putin, the Russian Prime Minister, to convey concerns about the 200,000 refugees fleeing Russia's attack on Chechnya, he was addressing a part of the world where there is a wider American interest.
Nearby, Armenia's internal balance is shaken after five armed men burst into its Parliament last week and killed the prime minister. That attack set back negotiations between Armenia and Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh, the disputed province that led the two countries to a bloody war from 1988 to 1994. As Chechnya burns, tiny, impoverished Georgia could be overwhelmed with Chechen refugees. 
 The United States has a big stake in the future development and political makeup of the South Caucasus and Central Asia, which lie between Europe, the Persian Gulf and Asia. The region's vast resources and unresolved tensions make it both attractive and potentially a point of conflict for ambitious powers that have been weakened in this region, including Russia, Turkey, Iran and China. Its location makes it a potentially profitable trade route; simmering conflicts and porous borders make it a corridor for shipment of arms and drugs.
The people in this region have endured great hardship as they have built their nations since the breakup of the Soviet Union, and they have emerged strongly committed to their independence. In Georgia, for example, despite grinding poverty, a pro-reform, pro-West, and pro-NATO majority was elected on Sunday in free and fair elections. Presidents in Georgia, Azerbaijan and Armenia have all taken personal and political risks in pursuit of peace. Georgia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Moldova have buried their rivalries and are cooperating with the goal of creating a formal regional group. Caspian oil has begun to flow through a newly constructed pipeline through Azerbaijan and Georgia to the Black Sea.
Yet unresolved ethnic conflicts and border disputes hamper stability and invite Russia and other outsiders to meddle; by inflaming tensions within and between the region's states, the outsiders hope to expand their own presence in the region and assert control over their own restive border lands. Economic growth is slow. Weapons have poured into the region, particularly with the help of ethnic extremists living in the United States, Europe and the Middle East, and more are amassed at its borders with Russia.
The Clinton administration has rightly stated that American interests would be best served by the emergence of independent, stable, energy-exporting states in the South Caucasus and Central Asia, at peace among themselves and enjoying solid links to the West. But by focusing narrowly on rapid Caspian energy development while soft-pedaling the political and military instability, the administration has undermined its own objectives.
The United States has declared support for the independence of the South Caucasus countries that were once Soviet republics, while at the same time pressuring them to go along with Russia's rejection of limits on arms deployments in the region that it had observed in the days of the Soviet Union. The Clinton administration has said too little too late in opposition to the wars in Chechnya, leading Russian nationalists to think that pursuit of their goals will meet little effective resistance from the West.
Unconstrained, Russia tends toward heavy-handedness because it underestimates popular commitment to independence while overestimating its ability to impose order. Armed to the teeth, Russia gets itself in trouble, fomenting instability in the South Caucasus and increasingly in its own Caucasus provinces.
American support for peace in the region has been unconvincing: deferential to Russia and largely silent on arms buildups in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan; halfhearted in advancing peace talks, having replaced four United States representatives at the Nagorno-Karabakh negotiations in less than three years, and maintaining a ban on assistance to Azerbaijan while giving humanitarian and technical aid to Armenia. Meanwhile, areas where there are unresolved conflicts serve as unregulated conduits for arms and drugs, reinforcing local organized criminals and creating powerful interests in favor of the status quo.
It is time for the United States to clarify its policy toward the South Caucasus and Central Asia, not in words, but in action. Some trade-offs will have to be made in our policy toward Russia. There will be no easy victories.
First, far more must be done to promote regional arms control. President Clinton should lead the way, at the meeting this month in Istanbul of the Organization on Security and Cooperation in Europe, in resisting Russian efforts to loosen treaty constraints on the deployment of weapons in the Caucasus. The restraints were part of the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty that the Soviet Union signed in 1990.
There should also be greater American efforts, independent and through institutions like NATO's Partnership for Peace program, to help the Caspian states build up the military forces needed to control their borders and protect their pipelines and transportation routes. Over time, most of these states will be prosperous enough to build modern militaries capable of defending their countries from attack; along the way, we should help them develop disciplined forces.
Equally important, there should be a regional security organization in which these countries can cooperate, perhaps building on the group of five states -- Georgia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Moldova -- already starting in this direction. Large nations close by, like Russia and Turkey, and Western countries could be accorded observer status in a structure similar to that of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
In regional peace negotiations, we should recognize that it will not be enough to support only elites engaged in secret talks, as the administration did repeatedly in the Nagorno-Karabakh dispute. Citizens should be involved in national debates about how peace would affect them. To resolve the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh, it will be necessary for the United States to work with those Armenian-American groups that support a nonviolent settlement.
And President Clinton should lift the ban on giving Azerbaijan the same kind of economic assistance that it provides to all other former Soviet republics. This would serve both to recognize the risks that Heydar Aliyev, Azerbaijan's president, has taken for peace and begin to bring about more realistic attitudes in Armenia. If we are to be an effective broker, we must adopt a balanced approach.
Together, these steps would help the countries in a politically complex and resource-rich part of the world achieve a reliable peace. The alternative is more chaos and bloodshed, which may not stay confined to the Caucasus for long.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Boris Kulikov)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: CEK (TSX) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (51%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (51%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); GEORGIA (94%); ARMENIA (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (71%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (76%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (71%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CASPIAN ENERGY INC (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); GEORGIA (94%); ARMENIA (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); UKRAINE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (71%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (76%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (71%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REFUGEES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (63%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



39 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Senate Backs Lower Import Tax On Africa and Caribbean Goods

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
A popular package of trade bills for African and Caribbean nations escaped a procedural thicket in the Senate today and advanced toward final approval when the senators voted to limit debate and consider amendments to the far-reaching legislation.
The senators voted 74 to 23 to end one of a series of filibusters led by Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, who fears that African exports will hurt his state's politically powerful textile industry. Organized labor, worried over the impact on jobs in the apparel industry, also opposes the bill. 
 A final vote on the measure is expected later this week.
The bills would reduce or eliminate duties on a wide range of goods made in sub-Saharan Africa, Central America and the Caribbean, mostly those assembled with fabric made in the United States. President Clinton and a large majority in Congress support the measures.
In a sign of the measure's importance to the White House, Mr. Clinton issued a statement from Oslo, where he is taking part in a two-day summit meeting on the Middle East peace talks, calling the vote today "an important milestone in our effort to build a new economic relationship with sub-Saharan Africa and deepen ties with our Caribbean and Central American neighbors."
Mr. Clinton is also keen to take a deal with him to Seattle on Nov. 30, when he is to open a meeting of the world's top trade officials.
Today's action breathes life into a measure that seemed in jeopardy just last Friday, when all 40 Democrats joined together to oppose a Republican effort to cut off debate. That Democratic vote was in protest of a parliamentary move by Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, to bar Democrats from offering amendments to the bills.
But Mr. Lott and the Democratic leader, Tom Daschle of South Dekota, both strong supporters of the bill, agreed to allow trade-related amendments and to consider unrelated amendments, like raising the minimum wage, on a separate bill.
Mr. Lott had said last week that if today's vote failed to end the filibuster -- a process called cloture, which needs 60 votes -- he would pull the measure from the Senate agenda and the trade bills would be dead for the rest of the year.
Senator William V. Roth Jr., a Delaware Republican who heads the Finance Committee, proclaimed today's vote a sign of the "strong bipartisan support for the legislation." After the vote last Friday, Mr. Roth angrily accused Democrats of "isolationism."
Mr. Clinton, his top national security aides and Senate Democrats have emphasized the issue of isolationism since the Senate's rejection three weeks ago of a treaty to ban underground nuclear testing.
If the Senate approves a trade package this week, it still must reconcile differences with the House, which approved a bill, for Africa only, by a vote of 234 to 163 in July. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); AFRICA (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELAWARE REPUBLICAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); AFRICA (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TEXTILES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); LABOR UNIONS (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); TRENT LOTT (78%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



40 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Nasdaq Breaks 3,000, Then Settles for Another Record

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The technology-heavy Nasdaq market racked up its third consecutive record close yesterday after a history-making jump through the 3,000-point level, while the broader market fell victim to further profit-taking.
The Dow Jones industrial average was off 66.67 points, or six-tenths of 1 percent, at 10,581.84, after giving back an early gain of more than 100 points. 
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 13.98 points, or nearly five-tenths of 1 percent, to 2,981.63 after having spiked to 3,014.84.
"Technology continues to lead the market," said John Cleland, chief investment strategist at Security Benefit Group of Companies in Topeka, Kan.
The Standard and Poor's 500-stock index finished down 6.38 points, or nearly five-tenths of 1 percent, at 1,347.74.
"I think we just have some people taking a little profit," said Doug Myers, the vice president for equity trading at Wachovia Securities in Atlanta. "I don't know of any news events affecting the market. This just might be normal intraday wave motion of the marketplace."
Wall Street was also bracing for a possible interest-rate increase by the European Central Bank and the Bank of England tomorrow. A rate increase overseas could give the Federal Reserve an opportunity to raise domestic interest rates for a third time this year.
Meanwhile, comments on mortgage rates by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, did not rattle financial markets.
Mr. Greenspan, whose remarks are monitored for clues as to whether he favors lifting interest rates, said rising home prices affect spending more than do rising stock prices. The speech, delivered by satellite to a conference of community bankers in Orlando, Fla., did not mention the economic outlook or interest rates.
He said most economic estimates show that every dollar of wealth created by rising stock prices increases consumer spending by 3 cents to 4 cents, while rising housing prices increase spending by about 5 cents.
The Commerce Department said personal income held unchanged in September because of the impact of Hurricane Floyd, while spending rose four-tenths of a percent. Without the hurricane, which hit the Eastern Seaboard in mid-September, personal income would have risen three-tenths of a percent.
Among active stocks, General Electric was off 1 5/16, at 128 7/16, on news that its chairman and chief executive, John F. Welch Jr., will retire in April 2001.
PurchasePro.com, a business network, soared 21 1/2, to 61 5/8, after Workflow Management designated it for its business printing needs. Workflow was up 1 3/16, to 14 3/16.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Increase
 
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices rose yesterday as investors speculated that the Federal Reserve would not have to raise interest rates much more to keep inflation at bay.
"The market not so long ago was trading on the idea we would have a string" of rate rises, said Dana Johnson, head of research at Banc One Capital Markets in Chicago. With reports last week pointing to tame inflation, he added, investors are "seeing with more clarity that the Fed is not behind the curve."
The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 16/32, to 99 25/32, also on speculation that limited supply of the benchmark will buoy prices. Its yield dropped to 6.14 percent, the lowest level since Oct. 4, from 6.18 percent on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (70%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (51%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (76%); SOUTHEAST USA (75%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); TOPEKA, KS, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SECURITY BENEFIT GROUP OF COS INC (70%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%); PURCHASEPRO.COM INC (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (76%); SOUTHEAST USA (75%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); TOPEKA, KS, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (87%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); HOME PRICES (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (66%); COMMUNITY BANKS (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (62%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); JACK WELCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



41 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Personal Income Stays Flat As Consumer Spending Swells

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Americans spent at a brisk pace in September, but their incomes remained flat -- a combination that pushed the nation's savings rate to a record low.
The Commerce Department said today that consumer spending rose four-tenths of a percent in September. The increase was slightly higher than what had been expected by private economists, who attributed it to a prosperous economy in which low unemployment and tame inflation have left people with cash to spend. 
 At the same time, personal income, comprising wages, interest and government benefits, held steady as Hurricane Floyd resulted in large, uninsured losses to residential and business property. It was the worst showing since December 1998 when personal income also was flat.
Income posted by farm owners fell sharply, reflecting losses from the hurricane even though overall wages rose by three-tenths of a percent in September.
Putting aside the impact of the storm, which hit the East Coast in September, the government said personal income would have grown three-tenths of a percent in September, in line with many forecasts.
"If you take out the impact of Floyd, income growth is good and shows a solid, thriving economy," said Gary Thayer, chief economist for A. G. Edwards & Sons.
Economists anticipate income will bounce back in October. In August, income rose four-tenths of a percent, while spending rose twice as fast at eight-tenths of a percent.
"Consumers are in a buying mood, but not quite as aggressively as earlier in the year," Mr. Thayer said.
Spending on nondurable goods, like food and fuel, rose eight-tenths of a percent in September, while spending on big-ticket manufactured goods, like cars, was down four-tenths of a percent.
Consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of all economic activity, rose at a solid annual rate of 4.3 percent in the third quarter, down slightly from 5.1 percent in the second quarter, the government reported last week.
With consumer spending outpacing income, the nation's savings rate -- savings as a percentage of after-tax income -- was pulled into a record monthly low of 1.6 percent in September.
That 1.6 percent rate reflects changes to how the government calculates the savings rate. Under new methodology -- part of a broader overhaul of a gauge measuring the nation's economic growth -- savings associated with a worker's government pension plan is counted as personal savings, rather than government savings.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks personal income statistics since 1998. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: A G EDWARDS & SONS INC (55%); A G EDWARDS & SONS INC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); HURRICANES (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (55%); 

PERSON: GARY THAYER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



42 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Nameplate Autos Are Sales Favorites in U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Buyers snapped up cars and trucks with foreign nameplates last month, forsaking some of their past favorites -- American-made sport utility vehicles.
Nearly every foreign brand reporting sales results today showed increases, and many notched double-digit gains. Toyota sales rose 12.6 percent in October compared to the same period a year ago. Honda sales rose 3.2 percent and Nissan jumped 27.6 percent. 
 Meanwhile, General Motors, Ford Motor and DaimlerChrysler's American brands had a disappointing month. Ford sales sagged 4.9 percent, and G.M. sales fell 3.6 percent. Their foreign brands, however, posted increases: G.M.'s Saab saw its sales rise 6.5 percent, while Ford's Volvo and Jaguar divisions posted increases of 37.8 and 75.8 percent, respectively.
DaimlerChrysler's Dodge, Jeep, Plymouth and Chrysler brands dropped 3.8 percent, while Mercedes sales rose 12.2 percent. Foreign makes won buyer's hearts because they offered "lots of new products," said David B. Healy, an auto analyst at Burnham Securities.
The strong showing from foreign brands helped the industry's sales rise 2.8 percent in October, compared to the same period a year ago. But the Big Three's lackluster results dragged down seasonally adjusted sales of cars, pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles and minivans for the industry as a whole. The industry's seasonally-adjusted annual sales rate plunged to 16.6 million, the weakest since January. While the industry has been enjoying record sales levels all year, and an annual rate of 16.6 million is still considered terrific, the annualized rate was 17 million in September.
Still, Asian and European auto makers were the big winners in October. Asian auto makers watched their collective slice of the United States market climb to 28.4 percent last month, up from 24.9 percent in the same period a year ago. European auto makers -- excluding DaimlerChrysler -- saw their market share increase to 3.8 percent from 2.6 percent, largely on the strength of Volkswagen's strong sales. G.M.'s market share dropped to 28 percent, down from 29.9 percent a year ago. Ford's drop was almost as large: Ford's share was 23 percent in October, down from 24.9 percent. And DaimlerChrysler's market share hit 16.8 percent, down from 17.7 percent a year ago. DaimlerChrysler's Mercedes brand added 1.3 percentage points to the parent company's results.
Some of the most popular American sport utility vehicles saw their sales slide. Ford Explorer sales dropped 11.7 percent last month compared to the year-ago period. And sales of the larger Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator fell 14.5 and 8.6 percent respectively. Ford's newest entry, the giant Excursion sport utility vehicle, registered 4,373 sales in its first month, perhaps attracting some would-be Expedition and Navigator buyers. Ford's total sales of sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickups fell 6.0 percent in October. Ford's car sales fell 4.1 percent. Sales of the Oldsmobile Bravada sport utility vehicle plunged 32.4 percent, but other G.M. sport utility vehicles saw their sales increase. That left sales of G.M.'s light trucks up 9.1 percent, while G.M.'s car sales fell 13.7 percent, dragging down the company's results.
Sales of DaimlerChrysler's Dodge, Plymouth, Jeep and Chrysler brands fell 3.8 percent overall, with car sales dropping 9.3 percent while truck sales slipped just 1.5 percent.
"Industry demand continues to be brisk," said Roy S. Roberts, G.M.'s group vice president of sales, service and marketing in North America. "The challenge for all manufacturers involves coping with twin pressures -- intense competition and robust consumer demand that has resulted in tight inventories in some market segments." DaimlerChrysler said its sales were still strong, despite the decline this month, since the year-ago period set a record for October sales, and last month was the second-best. "This is like two runners going across the finish line, both breaking the world record, but the second guy is still the second guy," said Jamie F. Jameson, vice president of sales and marketing operations. "It was still a terrific month."
DaimlerChrysler's economists have increased their industry sales forecast for next year, said Mr. Jameson. The new forecast is for sales of 16.4 million cars, light trucks and commercial trucks, up from a previous forecast of 16.0 million.
DaimlerChrysler is expected to go into next year with one fewer brand sold in the United States, former employees of the company said. The company is expected to announce tomorrow that it will drop the Plymouth brand from its stable, just as it discontinued the Eagle brand a few years ago.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart "U.S. Vehicle Sales in October" shows several automobile sales for the United States in the month of October. (Source: Ward's Auto Info Bank)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); SALES FIGURES (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); BRANDING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (79%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



43 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Russians Balk at Opening Nuclear Sites to U.S. Eyes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 2

 BODY:
This was supposed to be a banner day for American-Russian cooperation. The American ambassador was scheduled to cut the ribbon at a gala opening of a United States-financed business center in one of Russia's closed nuclear cities.
But after Russian authorities barred him last week from bringing his top science adviser or inspecting other American-Russian projects at the site, known as Krasnoyarsk-26, Ambassador James F. Collins angrily canceled his visit. 
 Energy Secretary Bill Richardson protested the Russian restrictions in terms so strong last weekend that the Russian Atomic Energy Minister, Yevgeny Adamov, stormed out of the room in Denver, where both were attending a conference.
Since the end of the cold war, the United States has worked hard to protect nuclear materials in Russia and to prevent them from falling into the hands of Iran, Iraq or other aspiring nuclear powers. But the question of access to Russian nuclear sites, always a delicate issue, has become increasingly troublesome of late.
There are many reasons for the dispute, including the frustration of the Russians over restrictions placed on their visits to the United States Energy Department's headquarters and laboratories, the sheer number of American visitors to the Russian weapons complex and a residual distrust of American intentions within the Ministry of Atomic Energy.
Another key factor in the dispute is the influence of Russia's internal security service, the F.S.B., no friend of expanded cooperation with the West.
"At the same time that we are making significant progress on the nuclear cities initiative we are starting to experience more access problems," Mr. Richardson said in a telephone interview. "We have set up a task force to examine access questions and resolve what is becoming a problem: the continued interference by the F.S.B. with our joint operations."
None of this means that nuclear cooperation is on the verge of breaking down. Experts from American nuclear laboratories and the Pentagon work with their Russian counterparts in ways that were unthinkable during the cold war.
But Russia's uneven policy on access is threatening to erode support in the United States Congress for the Clinton administration's program to create civilian jobs within Russia's closed nuclear cities -- nuclear-weapons complexes where 750,000 Russians live, but which remain off-limits to foreigners and Russians lacking special permits.
Even before the latest dispute over access, Congress slashed the administration's primary program of assistance to the closed cities to $7.5 million from the $30 million proposed for the 2000 fiscal year.
Certainly, the access problems at Krasnoyarsk-26 came as an unpleasant surprise to Mr. Collins, the American ambassador.
The aim of the center he was to inaugurate is to help develop new businesses, an important step toward creating jobs for former weapon scientists and reducing their temptation to sell bomb-designing skills abroad.
Russian authorities approved a visit by Mr. Collins to Krasnoyarsk-26 and, after some importuning, allowed him to bring his interpreter. But they would not allow his science adviser, Thomas Maertens, to go. Mr. Maertens had been in Krasnoyarsk-26 earlier this year, and Russian authorities sometimes limit the frequency of such visits.
Mr. Collins insisted that he, not the Russians, should be able to determine the composition of his team.
The American Embassy sent the Ministry of Atomic Energy a blunt letter noting that the restrictions were hampering the ambassador's ability to monitor United States assistance to Krasnoyarsk-26. Still, the business center was inaugurated as scheduled by midlevel Energy Department officials.
Mr. Adamov, the atomic energy minister, declined comment. But Andrei V. Katargin, the mayor of Zheleznogorsk, the civilian area within the Krasnoyarsk-26 complex, complained that that some of the restrictions Russian authorities have imposed on access to his city are excessive. "The U.S. Ambassador is an important person," Mr. Katargin said in a telephone interview. "His presence would have increased the status of the opening."
Kransoyarsk-26 is not the only place where American officials have run into problems. Mr. Richardson has unsuccessfully pressed to visit Avangard, a factory for assembling and disassembling nuclear warheads, which is located in the closed city of Arzamas-16.
The United States has offered to finance the conversion of the plant to civilian production if the Russians agree to close it ahead of schedule.
There have also been problems at Mayak, where the United States is financing the construction of a warehouse to protect bomb-grade plutonium extracted from nuclear warheads.
Thomas E. Kuenning Jr., a retired Air Force general who directs a Pentagon program to help the Russians reduce their strategic arsenal, said the Russians still have not provided the necessary access for the new American project manager at Mayak. He said the Russian Ministry of Defense tended to be more cooperative than its Ministry of Atomic Energy.
Some former American officials said the Russians were not the only ones at fault.
"This is a problem that exists on both sites," said Kenneth Luongo, a former Energy Department official and the head of the Russian-American Nuclear Security Advisory Council, a private group that focuses on the problems of Russia's closed cities.
Mr. Luongo said the Energy Department headquarters has imposed new background checks for Russians. And while foreign reporters have been allowed to visit Pantex, the United States warhead disassembly plant, Russian visitors are not allowed.
"The Russians are slowly tightening the noose, but the United States is doing the same thing," Mr. Luongo said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Russia showing location of Krasnoyarsk-26. Russia has limited access to Krasnoyarsk-26, a closed nuclear city.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); COLD WAR (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SCIENCE POLICY (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); 

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



44 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: When Biotechnology Crops and Their Wild Cousins Mingle

BYLINE: By CAROL KAESUK YOON

 BODY:
Since genetically engineered crops came on the American agricultural scene in 1992, farmers have enthusiastically adopted these plants, last year harvesting genetically altered corn, soybeans and cotton from 50 million acres -- an area one and a half times the size of New York State. Meanwhile, several studies have been published pointing toward ecological risks from genetically modified plants.
A major concern is that foreign genes from these plants could escape into wild plants by interbreeding. The fear is that wild plants endowed with new genes and potent new abilities, for example, to produce insecticide or withstand herbicide, might spread quickly, becoming difficult or costly to remove. 
 Previously researchers talked about the movement of foreign genes into wild plants as unlikely, but the picture emerging today is that with many crops it will be inevitable. Recent studies of radishes, grain sorghum, canola and sunflowers found that genes, in one case foreign genes, moved quickly and easily from crops to wild relatives.
Corn, soybeans and cotton pose no such risks in this country, as there are no plants with which they can interbreed. But other genetically engineered crops in development do have wild relatives in the United States with which they can interbreed including rice, beets, canola, sunflowers, cranberries and strawberries.
There have also been a number of recent reports suggesting that the popular crops that produce the insecticidal toxin known as Bt may pose previously unsuspected risks. Bt corn, cotton and potatoes are already on the market but many more Bt crops are in development.
Normally Bt is sprayed on plants to kill pests and is thought to remain active for a matter of days. But in sharp contrast to industry studies, Dr. Guenther Stotzky, soil microbiologist at New York University, has found that Bt toxin in the soil, as it might be found after a crop is plowed under, can remain active for at least eight months.
"We were surprised," Dr. Stotzky said. "I'm sure it hangs around longer. We just terminated the experiment after eight months."
In addition, recent studies of insect genes and insect development suggest that resistance to Bt may evolve more quickly than expected and that current resistance-management schemes for these plants may be ineffective.
Other new studies suggest that Bt crops may have adverse effects on non-pest species. A study published earlier this year showed that, in the laboratory, monarch butterfly caterpillars can be killed by eating Bt corn pollen. Again in contrast to industry studies, Swiss researchers have published evidence that beneficial, predatory insects get sick when they eat Bt or eat pests that have eaten Bt corn.
Ultimately, as with any new technology, risks must be weighed against benefits. So far researchers have found that some crops can provide striking financial and environmental benefits, but only under some conditions.
The Department of Agriculture released a report in July showing that many farmers planting Bt cotton enjoy increased yields and decreased insecticide use, but many also do not.
"Proponents of the technology would like it to be all things to all people," said Ralph Heimlich, deputy director for staff analysis at Economic Research Service, which put out the new study. Opponents prefer to claim it does nothing. The messy truth, however, lies somewhere in between. "It really is a mixed bag," Mr. Heimlich said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INTECHNOLOGY PLC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (93%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (93%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (92%); INSECTICIDES (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); CORN FARMING (89%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); HERBICIDES (78%); COTTON FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); ENTOMOLOGY (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



45 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
A Civil Rights Crusader Takes On the World

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

 BODY:
THE REV. LEON H. SULLIVAN, the Philadelphia civil rights legend, anti-apartheid warrior and grandmaster corporate guilt-tripper, set down in New York briefly this week to address the world.
This is not a flip statement. He was at the United Nations yesterday with Secretary General Kofi Annan to announce that a dozen companies with international operations -- Chevron, Colgate-Palmolive, KFC and General Motors among them -- have signed far-reaching socially responsible guidelines, drafted by him. 
 Now 77, Mr. Sullivan is a man of grand vision and gargantuan accomplishment, large in stature (6 feet 5 inches) and with a robust sense of self. Of course he named these guidelines the Global Sullivan Principles.
You get to do that when the first Sullivan Principles, written in 1977 for companies doing business in South Africa, are so widely cited for their moral and economic contributions to ending apartheid.
He chuckles, his face bright with memory, as he sips coffee at the Plaza Hotel.
"In 1974 I met with hundreds in South Africa and I realized that apartheid was sinful. When I was getting on the plane to go home, the police took me to a room and told me to remove my clothes. A man with the biggest .45 I'd ever seen said, 'We do to you what we have to.'
"I stood there in my underwear, thinking, 'I'm the head of the largest black church in Philadelphia and I'm on the board of directors of General Motors. When I get home, I'll do to you what I have to.' "
Although a renowned orator, Mr. Sullivan compelled companies to abide by his first set of principles, which included desegregating foreign-owned plants in South Africa, and his latest set, which includes supporting human rights and equal employment at home and abroad, by being a quietly skillful boardroom negotiator. Using moral imperative as well as a shrewd understanding of the relationship between corporate image and economic gain, he would not be denied.
"He'll talk about an issue and then go around the room and say, 'How are you going to help me solve this?' " said Robert H. Campbell, the chief executive of Sunoco, who consulted with Mr. Sullivan about how to do business ethically in Nigeria. "It's tough to say no to Leon."
To spend a few hours with Mr. Sullivan is to be swept by his gale-force tales from "the dirt alley at the end of the alley" in Charleston, W. Va., where he was raised by a devout, illiterate grandmother and was the pastor of two churches by the time he was 17.
On a lecture tour through the South in the 1940's, Adam Clayton Powell Jr. met the tall, poetry-spouting preacher. Several years later, he introduced Mr. Sullivan to the Abyssinian Baptist Church in New York with the announcement, "I can take a young man from the hills who looks like he never wore a pair of shoes in his life and make him a leader!"
Postwar Harlem: Mr. Sullivan finishes a master's degree in religion at Columbia, talks Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia into hiring black police officers to work with gangs, marches with A. Philip Randolph, Bayard Rustin and Paul Robeson and persuades Sugar Ray Robinson and Joe Louis to appear in fund-raising fights for a youth center.
Then his new wife, Grace Banks, grabs him by the ear and takes him to a park bench. "She said, 'Your head's too big and your feet are flying off the ground. It's time to leave the glamour of New York.' "
A FIVE-YEAR pause at a Baptist church in South Orange, N.J. Then, in 1950, the 600-member Zion Baptist Church summons him to Philadelphia, where, he recalls, "No blacks drove trucks, there were no black tellers."
Mr. Sullivan organized more than two dozen boycotts of businesses large and small that would not employ blacks. The campaign became known as selective patronage.
"I spoke to real estate developers," he recalls, "and said, 'All of you should be put in jail!' Half of them booed and left. But I literally opened a whole city for black people. Martin Luther King with a fellow called Abernathy said to me, 'Tell us how this works!' "
Jobs were becoming available, but, Mr. Sullivan realized, many blacks were unskilled. Brainstorming with city and corporate leaders, he built his first Opportunities Industrialization Center, a training program that now has 70 branches nationwide and 46 in 18 other countries.
He galvanized his congregation with a vision blending middle-class values, economic independence and religious revival. By 1988, when Mr. Sullivan moved to Phoenix for his health, church membership had grown tenfold and the church itself, which had burned down, had been rebuilt by black steel workers. Under his aegis, Philadelphia had a black-owned shopping center and housing for the elderly and the handicapped.
In his down time, of course, there was South Africa, his decades-long gadfly role at General Motors, 50 honorary degrees and visits with every president from Johnson to Clinton. In May, he led more than 1,000 professionals and business leaders to Accra, Ghana, for the fifth African-American African Summit. That's his baby, urging black Americans to invest in Africa.
Travel, age and a nasty African bush insect's bite have rattled his health. Retirement, Reverend?
"Nobody can tell me what to do, when to do it, or when to stop!" He is laughing. "Except God. And Grace."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Leon Sullivan presses for social responsibility in commerce. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: CL (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); ETHICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); RELIGION (71%); POETRY (68%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: LEON H SULLIVAN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



46 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Maybe 'the Best Manager in America,' Clearly a Model for Other Executives

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
When John F. Welch Jr. resigns from General Electric in April 2001, he will actually leave two vacancies: those of G.E.'s chief executive and corporate America's most-admired manager.
The first post will be filled quickly, the appointment will likely be announced months before Mr. Welch steps aside. For the second job, however, there is no clear successor, management experts said yesterday, and that is a testament to the rarity of Mr. Welch's nearly two-decade run at the top of one of America's biggest companies. 
 Mr. Welch, who announced his retirement date on Monday, is not the most famous chief executive in the country. That title probably belongs to William H. Gates of Microsoft or Warren E. Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway. But among board members, executives, and business-school students and professors, Mr. Welch's name is a touchstone for smart corporate management in a way that no other chieftain matches.
"He's the best manager in America," said Gerard R. Roche, the chairman of the executive search firm Heidrick & Struggles. "What he's done at G.E. has become the benchmark for other companies," said Christopher A. Bartlett, a professor at Harvard Business School. "I'm on four boards of directors," added John O. Whitney, a former consultant to G.E. who now teaches at Columbia Business School, "and at every other meeting, someone brings up what Welch would do."
The candidates to take Mr. Welch's place on this score are familiar names in corporate America. They include Mr. Gates, Louis V. Gerstner Jr. of I.B.M., John Chambers of Cisco Systems and Jacques A. Nasser of Ford Motor. But other than Mr. Gates, who recently cut back his control of day-to-day operations and is known for his company's antitrust trial as much as for his management theories, none has nearly the profile that Mr. Welch does. As a result, the management experts said, none is on the verge of being so influential.
Many of the decade's popular management theories had their start, or became widely known, after G.E. adopted them. In the 1980's, Mr. Welch said every G.E. unit should be No. 1 or No. 2 in its field. He then sold or closed those that he thought could not be fixed, laying off some 100,000 employees in the process.
Mirroring the shift in the United States economy, he also moved the company's focus from making products to selling services, and he preached the importance of global business. More recently, he began a quality initiative to improve manufacturing efficiency and watched many of his proteges become chief executives at other companies.
Even during a bull-market run, the results have stood out. When Mr. Welch took over on April 1, 1981, G.E. was worth $13 billion. At the close of business yesterday, its market capitalization was $425 billion. "The magnificence of the story of Jack Welch is the longevity of his success, "said Hobson Brown Jr., the chief executive of Russell Reynolds Associates, a New York headhunter.
Mr. Welch has his critics. He earned the nickname Neutron Jack after ordering the layoffs in the 1980's. And a 1998 book by a former reporter for The Wall Street Journal contended that under Mr. Welch, G.E.'s obsession with profit led to questionable accounting practices and ethical lapses.
The company has denied the accusations in the book, and Mr. Welch has often said he believed that closing unprofitable businesses was both financially and morally sound.
There is no debate, however, about whether other managers use Mr. Welch's tenure as a model, and that is the standard that anybody filling his unofficial job would be judged on, professors and executives said yesterday.
The first place to look, they said, are the technology companies that have captured so much of the popular imagination. Mr. Gates and Michael Dell of Dell Computer are good examples of executives who understood the importance of the Internet long before many others did, and mainstream companies are now following in their tracks. But Mr. Gates and Mr. Dell founded their companies, and the vast majority of chief executives take control of organizations that have at least some history. "The task is very different," said Mr. Bartlett of Harvard.
Mr. Gerstner and Mr. Nasser are similar to Mr. Welch in that they took over large companies and set about changing them. Indeed, I.B.M.'s Mr. Gerstner is frequently mentioned, along with Mr. Welch, as an executive who changed an old, enormous company by making service businesses more important. Ford's Mr. Nasser, meanwhile, has received attention lately for overhauling a company that was long associated with industrial decline. But until now his successes have been only occasionally cited at other companies, management experts said.
A chief executive who both hails from the high technology sector and took over a company after its founding is Mr. Chambers of Cisco. Adrian J. Slywotzky, a well-known author and vice president at Mercer Management Consulting, said Mr. Chambers understands the fundamental premise of business today: Technology must be at the center of everything, but it cannot replace time that executives spend with their customers and employees.
That attitude, Mr. Slywotzky said, "is very Welch-like." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); BRK.B (NYSE) (56%); BRK.A (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (GE) GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (GE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); QUALITY CONTROL (66%); SALES & SELLING (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: WELCH, JOHN F JR JACK WELCH (92%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (79%); JOHN K WELCH (79%); BILL GATES (77%); WARREN BUFFETT (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



47 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: New York Authority Negotiating to Sell 2 Nuclear Plants

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 2

 BODY:
The New York State Power Authority said today that it was negotiating to sell its two nuclear power plants, which would be one of the largest asset sales ever by the state, and signals the continuing, rapid evolution of the electric power industry.
The authority said it had begun talks with the Entergy Corporation, a major energy company based in New Orleans, for the sale of the Indian Point 3 reactor on the Hudson River, 35 miles north of Manhattan, and the James A. FitzPatrick plant on Lake Ontario. The Indian Point 2 reactor, neighboring Indian Point 3, is owned by Consolidated Edison. 
 Power Authority officials would not say how much they expected to reap from a sale, but industry analysts said the figure would almost certainly be in the hundreds of millions of dollars, and perhaps more than $1 billion.
The authority said that as a condition of any sale, it would continue to provide low-cost power to certain corporate clients under the state's economic development programs, and to local government agencies like New York City, the city's Housing Authority and the subway system. Last year, the two nuclear plants accounted for 32 percent of the electricity produced by the Power Authority, which also runs several hydroelectric plants.
As recently as two years ago, there was no market to speak of for power plants, but in New York and many other states, state regulators have forced utilities to sell off their plants to encourage competition in an industry that has been dominated for a century by government-sanctioned monopolies. For the utilities, that has produced a windfall, as plants powered by gas, oil and coal have fetched prices several times the values that the companies have listed for them on their books.
Nuclear plants are generally considered less desirable because they can be expensive to operate and, later, to decommission. Only a few companies have actively shopped for nuclear plants, and the handful that have been sold have gone for a small fraction of their book value. But industry analysts say the FitzPatrick and Indian Point plants are better properties than most nuclear plants that have gone on the market so far.
"I think we're going to start to see more attractive plants like these being sold, and more bidders, and at more attractive prices," said Stephen Fetter, an energy industry analyst at Fitch Investors Service.
The Power Authority, a quasi-independent agency whose board is appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki, did not set out to sell its nuclear plants, according to Mike Petralia, a spokesman. "But over the past 18 months or so, we've been approached by several companies expressing interest in purchasing the plants," he said, while refusing to name any but Entergy.
Larry Shapiro, a lawyer for the New York Public Interest Research Group who follows energy issues, said he was troubled that the authority did not select a buyer through a formal, competitive process.
But Mr. Petralia said the authority had made its standards clear to each of its prospective suitors, including an idea of its asking price and its insistence on job security for plant employees and a continuing role in economic development programs. "Entergy seems to be the only one willing and able to meet those conditions," he said.
Assemblyman Paul D. Tonko, a Democrat who heads the Energy Committee, applauded the proposed sale, which he has advocated in the past, but he complained that the process had so far been cloaked in secrecy, making it difficult to determine whether the state was getting the best possible deal.
Indian Point 3 went into operation in 1976 and has a 980-megawatt capacity, making it one of the largest-output power plants in the country. FitzPatrick began operation in 1975 and has a capacity of 800 megawatts. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (92%); ED (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); LAKE ONTARIO (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); ENTERGY CORP (92%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (90%); POWER AUTHORITY (89%); NEW YORK PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: POWER AUTHORITY (89%); NEW YORK PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); LAKE ONTARIO (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POWER PLANTS (93%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); MONOPOLIZATION (64%); 

PERSON: JAMES A FITZPATRICK (70%); MIKE PETRALIA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



48 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: In Search of a Chinese Trade Deal

 BODY:
President Clinton's new efforts to salvage a trade deal with China enabling it to join the World Trade Organization come as welcome news. The initiative, begun with a phone call last month from Mr. Clinton to President Jiang Zemin, seeks to repair what administration officials now concede was a policy blunder in April when Washington rejected market-opening terms offered by Prime Minister Zhu Rongji on his visit to the United States. Worse yet, publication of the Chinese terms by the administration triggered opposition by opponents of Mr. Zhu's reforms inside China, making any deal more difficult to achieve.
If Mr. Clinton wins terms this time around as favorable as those he rejected in April, he will have performed a remarkable feat of recovery. More likely, China will offer less, and the administration will have to accept it as the price of getting a deal. It may then be difficult to sell the arrangement to Congress, where skepticism of Chinese intentions is running high just as the presidential campaign has begun heating up. 
 The April deal, according to the administration's own summary, would have propelled Chinese economic institutions toward market discipline. Mr. Zhu agreed to cut tariffs below those of most American trade partners, eliminate export subsidies, permit foreign investors to buy substantial shares in insurance and telecommunications companies, protect foreign investors and intellectual property rights and commit state-owned enterprises to make purchases on the basis of price and quality, thereby eliminating discrimination against foreign companies.
These terms were seen as concessions to the West. In fact, they would benefit the Chinese economy over all, though some parts of that economy might suffer. The United States economy is already open to Chinese products, and consumers reap the benefits of unfettered trade. But China's borders are often closed. Opening them would bring Chinese consumers attractive imports and force domestic companies to compete with foreign ones.
But beyond the narrow impact of trade, China's admission to the W.T.O. could have dramatic political impact. Mr. Zhu, like economic reformers throughout the third world, wants to use commitments to the W.T.O. to make it hard for domestic opponents to overturn reforms. Violations of China's commitments to the W.T.O. invite retaliation by China's trade partners.
The administration faces an obstacle to reaching a deal because of Congressional opposition and anxiety about foreign competition in the labor movement. Congress can scuttle the deal by refusing to relinquish its right under current United States laws to deny China trading rights that it would automatically enjoy as a member of the W.T.O.
The most vigorous opponents of China in Congress represent Southern textile and apparel industries that fear cheap imports. But recent studies show that these fears are exaggerated. Chinese exports to the United States would rise by a modest amount. But almost all would come at the expense of exports from other third-world countries rather than from American manufacturers and workers.
Mr. Clinton must also deal with a Chinese demand that the United States promise not to invoke "anti-dumping" rules to drive out low-priced Chinese exports. If China won this demand, it might cause distress among a small number of American workers but would do low-income American consumers an enormous favor. The administration faces the challenge not only of reaching a good deal with China but of then selling it to Congress and to anxious workers. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); GARMENT WORKERS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (65%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (65%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (65%); EXPORT PROMOTION (65%); RESEARCH REPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



49 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Packard Bell NEC Plans Layoffs Of Up to88% of Its Work Force

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., Nov. 2

 BODY:
Packard Bell NEC Inc., the struggling personal-computer maker controlled by the NEC Corporation, said today that it would lay off as much as 88 percent of its work force in the United States. The company also said that its chief executive would resign and that it would stop selling the Packard Bell brand in the United States.
Packard Bell will slash its payroll in the United States from 2,600 jobs to 300 to 400 positions by the end of first quarter 2000, a spokesman, Ron Fuchs, said. The company's chief executive, Alain Couder, who had been brought in to turn the troubled PC manufacturer around, will step down, as will other senior members of his team. 
 Shareholders expected Packard Bell to cut its losses from $650 million in 1998 to $100 million this year. But the computer maker is on track to lose $150 million this year. The company considered other options, including possible mergers, Mr. Fuchs said.
The cuts cross all manufacturing and administrative positions and will hit the company's Sacramento headquarters and plant hardest. Packard Bell employment in Sacramento will fall to 100 workers, from 1,600.
The company's European manufacturing operations will not be affected. Mr. Fuchs said that Packard Bell was the leading brand in France and Britain.
"The U.S. brand has been damaged because of quality and service problems three and four years ago," he said. "We took our eye off the ball, and though we've made substantial improvements, perception doesn't catch up quite as quick."
Manufacturing workers in the United States are on double shifts now to meet Packard Bell orders, and all of its future products will be sold under the NEC brand. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6701 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PACKARD BELL NEC INC (X.PBE) PACKARD BELL NEC INC (96%); NEC CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACKARD BELL NEC INC (X.PBE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET LAYOFFS (91%); COMPUTER MAKERS (91%); LABOR FORCE (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); MERGERS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); 

PERSON: RON FUCHS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



50 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: Mickey and Minnie Go to Hong Kong;
A Proposed Disney Park Raises Queries on Tourism and Cost

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Nov. 2

 BODY:
On Aug. 23, 1998, a delegation from the Walt Disney Company arrived at the office of Hong Kong's chief executive to pitch the idea of building a Disneyland here. That summer day, Hong Kong was far from the happiest place on earth.
Its economy was in the depths of a recession, unemployment was soaring and financial markets around the world were gripped with panic. Just a week earlier, the government had spent billions of dollars to buy shares of companies in its own stock market to fend off what it called predatory foreign speculators. 
 A new Disneyland was just the tonic this downtrodden city needed -- and the team from Disney knew it. What followed was 13 months of grinding negotiations as Hong Kong struggled to achieve two seemingly irreconcilable goals: win the Magic Kingdom without losing its shirt.
Today, Disney and Hong Kong announced their long-awaited plan to open a theme park here by 2005. The total cost of the park and related projects is $3.6 billion, of which Disney will contribute only $316 million. Hong Kong may not have lost its shirt, but critics say it has given away the sleeves.
"There's a substantial upfront cost to the Hong Kong administration, no question about it," said Ian K. Perkin, the chief economist of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce. "But in the long run, the fact that we'll be one of five cities in the world with a Disneyland is a huge positive."
At a news conference here today, Hong Kong and Disney talked a lot about the long run. Hong Kong's leaders said the park would help it fashion a new identity as a tourist destination in the wake of its return to Chinese rule in 1997. Disney executives see it as a powerful launch pad into China.
"This is the world's largest market, despite a temporary financial crisis or a temporary political problem," said Judson C. Green, the chairman of Disney's theme park division. "We think it's the right time to be here."
Anson Chan, the chief secretary of Hong Kong, said, "You cannot put a price on the message that the Walt Disney Company sends the world in choosing Hong Kong for its third international theme park."
Behind these upbeat comments, however, is the tale of how a small government made hard choices to win over a big corporation.
Hong Kong, which desperately sought some good news to offset the gloom of the Asian economic crisis, squared off against Disney, a company with a reputation as a fearsome negotiator and a long list of suitors. Shanghai and several other Chinese cities were also lobbying for a Disney park.
Making the job even harder for Hong Kong, Disney's chairman, Michael Eisner, has been in a slump of his own, as he struggles with slack earnings, difficulties grooming a successor and troubles at the ABC network. Having bought big-ticket items like two $350 million cruise ships, the company, analysts said, was under pressure to keep a lid on spending.
"Michael Eisner has been telling the Street he's going to cut capital spending," said an influential media investor. "That makes them an even tougher negotiator."
Facing Disney across the table was Mike Rowse, Hong Kong's commissioner of tourism. Mr. Rowse, a bluff, 50-year-old Englishman, is used to tense negotiations. He represented Hong Kong when it was engaged in talks with Britain over how much it should pay to take over the British military garrison after the colony returned to China.
But even Mr. Rowse admitted that was poor preparation for Disney. "It was by far the hardest thing I've ever done," he said, recalling the negotiations, which finally ended at 3 a.m. Monday.
The company's initial proposal, according to people involved in the talks, was to build a park on land donated by the government. Disney would have made no upfront investment in the project, and its involvement would have been mainly to collect license fees for the use of its characters.
With property in Hong Kong among the most expensive in the world, accepting such a proposal would have been politically untenable for the government. But Disney told Hong Kong it would be unable to finance the park if it had to pay for the land, people involved in the talks said.
The standoff almost doomed the negotiations. In early June, however, Hong Kong officials proposed a compromise: the government would accept shares, rather than cash, for the land. Hong Kong valued the land at $516 million and agreed to accept subordinate shares in the joint venture that will build the park.
For its part, Hong Kong demanded that Disney also invest in the joint venture, rather than simply license its characters. Much of the period from late June until last weekend was consumed by the negotiations over the respective equity contributions of Disney and Hong Kong.
"The government thought it was important for us to take a stake in the project, and we were happy to do so," Mr. Green said. "But at the same time, we felt it was important for the government to play a role as well."
In the end, Disney agreed to invest $316 million for a 43 percent stake in the joint venture. Hong Kong will contribute $419 million for 57 percent. In addition, the government will extend a $787 million loan and arrange an additional $296 million in commercial loans. That puts the total cost of the 315-acre park at $1.8 billion, of which Hong Kong is contributing $1.5 billion.
And Hong Kong's costs do not end there. It has also agreed to spend $1.75 billion to build roads, a rail link and other services to connect the park to the rest of Hong Kong. Disneyland will be built on reclaimed land in Penny's Bay, a secluded cove on Lantau Island, just west of Hong Kong.
Mr. Rowse noted that Hong Kong would have had to spend this money to develop Lantau into a tourism destination, regardless of whether Disney was the main attraction. But economists are skeptical.
As for Disney, the company pointed out that it does not put money into all its parks. Tokyo Disneyland, for example, was financed and built entirely by a Japanese developer. Disney invested $140 million in Disneyland Paris. But the company later had to spend millions more to rescue that park after it ran into crippling financial problems.
The checkered history of the Paris park, originally called Euro Disney, was clearly on the minds of negotiators during the talks. Mr. Green said Disney would build a smaller-than-usual park, with only 2,100 hotel rooms. That would enable it to operate profitably with only five million visitors a year -- a number that analysts said was conservative.
The Paris operation, by contrast, needs 10 million visitors a year to fill its hotels and operate profitably. After a strong first year, it drew well short of that for several years. The park, after a substantial write-off, is now profitable.
In defending its deal today, Hong Kong officials said Disneyland would bring vast benefits to the local economy. They said it would attract 1.4 million additional visitors a year to the city in its first year. Hong Kong now has 10 million visitors a year, though its tourism industry has been lagging.
The officials also said that the park would generate 18,400 jobs, either directly or indirectly, in its first year, and 35,800 in later years. That is an alluring prospect in a city with an unemployment rate of 6 percent.
Some economists were also encouraged that the government said it might sell off part of its investment in a few years, either through a stock offering or to an investor.
"The downside is fairly low and the upside is large, in terms of giving Hong Kong a new arrow in its quiver," said David Dodwell, co-author of a book about the local economy, "The Hong Kong Advantage."
Beyond the bottom line, though, some local business people say there was an unseemliness to the way Hong Kong pursued the deal with Disney. Senior officials publicized the talks as early as last March, which gave the impression that Hong Kong was hungry for a deal.
"There is absolutely nothing wrong with Disney coming to Hong Kong as an investor," said David Tang, the founder of Shanghai Tang, an upscale boutique. "But do they require a subsidy of $2.5 billion?"
Mr. Tang also worries that Hong Kong's embrace of Disney could exclude the development of Chinese attractions in China's newest city. He seems to be in a minority here, however, in worrying about the suffocating effect of American popular culture. In a daylong series of briefings on the project, the question of Disney's impact on the cultural life of Hong Kong scarcely came up.
Critics were more worried that Disney is not barred from building another theme park in Asia, perhaps even in China, that could compete with Hong Kong. Mr. Green affirmed that Disney would continue discussing other projects. But he added that Hong Kong would be its main focus for the next decade.
Despite all the quibbles, Hong Kong officials were in the mood to savor their victory. Even Tung Chee-hwa, the stolid former shipping tycoon who is Hong Kong's chief executive, smiled gamely when Mickey Mouse threw a brightly colored arm around him at the news conference.
Mr. Rowse spoke for many in Hong Kong, which was handed over to China two years ago, when he said: "We kind of faded out of the spotlight after 1997, and everybody wrote us off. This project tells the world that we are alive and kicking."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Walt Disney Company and the Hong Kong government have announced plans to open a theme park on reclaimed land in Penny's Bay, right, by 2005. Above is an artist's conception of the finished complex. (Reuters); (Associated Press)(pg. C1); Flanked by Minnie Mouse and Mickey Mouse, Hong Kong's chief secretary, Anson Chan, second from left, and the chief executive, Tung Chee-hwa, celebrated a deal to build a Disney theme park by 2005. (Reuters)(pg. C14)
 
Chart
 
DISNEYLAND
Anaheim, Calif.
OPENED -- 1955
EMPLOYEES -- 14,000
DAY PASS -- $39, adult; $29, child
1998 VISITORS, IN MILLIONS -- 13.7
 
WALT DISNEY WORLD
Orlando, Fla.
OPENED -- 1971
EMPLOYEES -- 55,000
DAY PASS -- $44, adult; $35, child
 
 
TOKYO DISNEYLAND
Tokyo, Japan
OPENED -- 1983
EMPLOYEES -- 15,000
DAY PASS -- $52, adult; $38 child
1998 VISITORS, IN MILLIONS -- 16.7
 
DISNEYLAND PARIS
Marne-la-Vallee, France
OPENED -- 1992
EMPLOYEES -- 12,000
DAY PASS -- $37, adult; $28, child
1998 VISITORS, IN MILLIONS -- 12.5
 
1998 VISITORS, BY PARK, IN MILLIONS
Magic Kingdom -- 15.6
Epcot Center -- 10.6
Disney-MGM Studios -- 9.5
Animal Kingdom -- 6.0
Blizzard Beach -- 1.3
Typhoon Lagoon -- 1.1
(Source: The Walt Disney Company)(pg. C1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (98%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (98%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (98%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (98%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (85%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (91%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (DIS) WALT DISNEY CO (98%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (85%); ORLANDO MAGIC (83%); HONG KONG GENERAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WALT DISNEY CO (DIS) ORLANDO MAGIC (83%); HONG KONG GENERAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (91%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HONG KONG; HOTELS AND RESORTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); TOURISM (69%); LEISURE TRAVEL (68%); RESORTS (66%); LOBBYING (56%); 

PERSON: WALTER ELIAS 'WALT' DISNEY (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



51 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
JENNY CRAIG PLANNING MAJOR CUTBACKS

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
With sales and profit shrinking, the weight-loss chain Jenny Craig Inc. said late on Monday that it would close 86 of its weight-loss centers in the United States and reduce staff by 15 percent at its headquarters in the San Diego suburb of La Jolla. The company, hurt by a trend of do-it-yourself dieting and the introduction of a new line of snack bars and drinks that cannibalized existing product lines, also reported a loss for the quarter that ended Sept. 30. The centers slated to be closed, about 16 percent of the total in the United States, were losing money. A total of 103 jobs, including 26 at the La Jolla headquarters, are being eliminated
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JC (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JENNY CRAIG INC (JC) JENNY CRAIG INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: JENNY CRAIG INC (JC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD AND COOKING; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (94%); LAYOFFS (90%); DIETING (90%); TRENDS (88%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); NEW PRODUCTS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



52 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: A Policy Shift On Serbia Tied To a Free Vote

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
The Clinton administration, trying to strengthen the opposition to President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, has agreed to end its economic sanctions on Serbia as soon as there is a free election there, senior administration officials said today.
Washington previously vowed that the sanctions would last as long as Mr. Milosevic stayed in power. 
 But officials said the new strategy should let the opposition put more pressure on Mr. Milosevic, because an early election could remove the oil embargo, air-travel ban and other sanctions levied by Washington.
The sanctions, with the bombing during the war in Kosovo, have devastated the economy. But the sanctions have proven unable to dislodge President Milosevic, whose term runs to 2001.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright is expected to make the announcement on Wednesday, but it carries a risk: that bickering opposition parties would so fragment the election results that Mr. Milosevic could cling to power.
Thus the United States might find itself compelled to lift its sanctions on a government still led by Mr. Milosevic, who has been indicted for war crimes by an international tribunal in The Hague. But American officials say Dr. Albright and her aides have determined that the risk is tiny and that an internationally monitored election would end Mr. Milosevic's political career.
A delegation of leading Serbian opposition figures now visiting Washington pressed for the policy change, arguing that it would allow them to increase popular pressure on Mr. Milosevic to call an election that they are certain they can win.
Polls in Serbia indicate that nearly 70 percent of voters want a new government. But the United States cannot be certain that voters will cast ballots for change and that the opposition can capitalize on the discontent to win control.
If he were to remain in power after an election, the administration would almost certainly try to prove that the vote had not been free and fair, and thus the United States would not be compelled to lift its sanctions.
"We cannot imagine, based on our analysis, that a genuinely free and fair election would allow Milosevic to remain as president," said a senior official.
Administration officials said the White House and State Department had decided on the policy shift because Washington has become convinced that the long-fragmented opposition in Serbia, the larger of the two republics remaining in Yugoslavia, is now unified in its determination to force early elections and to oust Mr. Milosevic.
"Our assumption is that Milosevic will only hold elections as a result of the pressure of the opposition's efforts," one official said. "And we are bolstering the opposition's efforts by taking away from Milosevic the idea that the sanctions are the result of American evil."
The administration has already agreed to another request from the delegation of Serbs: that Washington support a European-run pilot program to allow about $5 million worth of oil to be delivered this winter to two cities in Serbia that are governed by opponents of Mr. Milosevic.
The United States had initially been hesitant to support the program for fear that the oil might be diverted to Mr. Milosevic's business associates or the military.
American officials had also hoped that economic privations and the prospect of winter might lead to a new wave of public unrest against the government.
But American officials said they were persuaded to support the program both for humanitarian reasons and because safeguards should make it difficult for the oil to be diverted. All other economic sanctions remain in place, they stressed, and the lack of heating oil and other energy supplies in the rest of Serbia could still deepen discontent.
Serbia faces a brutal energy shortage after NATO bombers destroyed its oil refineries in the campaign to drive Serbian forces out of Kosovo.
The administration's concessions to the Serbian delegation are considered vital to the public standing of the opposition leaders, who are being portrayed in the government-controlled news media in Serbia as pro-Western traitors.
"They can now return home and announce -- with conviction -- that they helped convince the United States to shift its policy and speed up the timetable to end Serbia's isolation," an administration official said.
At a news conference on Wednesday, officials said, Dr. Albright is also expected to hold out the possibility that in exchange for free elections, the United States would commit itself to reconstruction aid for Serbia -- to help rebuild the country after the NATO bombing.
Although the Constitution of the Yugoslav Federation of Serbia and Montenegro does not grant President Milosevic direct power to call elections, the reality is that his powers are dictatorial.
"He snaps his fingers, and there will be elections," one senior administration official said. "We're trying to increase the pressure on him to snap his fingers."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students marched in Belgrade yesterday in an antigovernment protest. The United States says ending sanctions depends on free elections. (Associated Press)(pg. A10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); INDICTMENTS (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); WAR CRIMES (70%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



53 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 5; Workplace

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: TRENDS;
As Hours Lengthen, Workers Gain Freedom to Set Them

BYLINE: By ALISA TANG

 BODY:
Americans are putting in longer hours than ever, but at least they have more say today than in years past about when they work them.
 In 1985, only 12.4 percent of full-time workers had flex time agreements with employers giving them a role in deciding their work schedules. Six years later, flex time still covered only 15.1 percent of the work force. But then the concept caught fire, and by 1997, the number had shot up to almost 28 percent. The overall idea of flex time is becoming less tied to an option for new mothers and parents to take care of their children, and more of a benefit that can be enjoyed by everyone, said Tom Beers, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which conducted the surveys. 
 Flex time comes in three forms: the gliding schedule that allows workers to vary arrival and departure times; variable schedules that require a specified number of working hours but set no schedules, and compensatory-time arrangements that allow employees to apply overtime to future time off.
 The movement is still largely unofficial; only 6 percent of employees in 1997 had formal agreements. And not all job categories are created equal: 65 percent of university teachers enjoy workplace freedom, compared with 10 percent of machine operators. ALISA TANG
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph:
FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES WORKING FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES"
1985 -- 12.4%
1991 -- 15.1%
1997 -- 27.6%
 
AVERAGE COMBINED WEEKLY HOURS WORKED BY MARRIED COUPLES
1979 -- 66.2 hours
1989 -- 70.4 hours
1998 -- 71.8 hours
 
Table: "SHARE OF FULL-TIME WORKERS WITH FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES"
University teachers -- 65%
Natural scientists -- 65%
Mathematicians, computer scientists -- 59%
Executives, managers -- 42%
Household workers -- 41%
Technicians -- 31%
Salespeople -- 30%
Administrators -- 23%
Food service workers -- 22%
Mechanics -- 18%
Construction workers -- 18%
Health service workers -- 18%
Equipment cleaners -- 14%
Machine operators -- 10%
 
(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); FLEXTIME (90%); OVERTIME (78%); COMPENSATORY TIME OFF (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); CHILDREN (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



54 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: New M.T.A. Spending Plan Badly Flawed, McCall Says

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
A fiercely contested proposal by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to spend $17.5 billion on repairs and expansion of its subway, bus and commuter train service is based on unclear and flawed financial assumptions, according to a report issued yesterday by State Comptroller H. Carl McCall.
The five-year plan for large capital projects, the costliest ever proposed by the authority, is "overly reliant on debt," Mr. McCall said in an interview yesterday. To pay off its new borrowing, his analysis concluded, the authority might have to raise bus and subway fares by as much as 30 cents by 2004. 
 While offering no easy solutions to the financial squeeze, Mr. McCall said the authority's best hope was to seek more money in direct subsidies from the state, which he said should have been contributing more to mass transit projects under Gov. George E. Pataki. His assertion was challenged yesterday by a spokesman for the governor.
The comptroller's report, coming two months after similar financial warnings from the Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan research group that advises the New York City Council and other elected officials, was released in advance of a hearing today in which senior authority officials are expected to defend their ambitious plan before state legislators.
Although Mr. McCall concluded that the plan was too expensive, the hearing promises a forum for those who think it does not go far enough, particularly in providing money for a Second Avenue subway. The hearing, to be held in Manhattan, has been called by Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who represents the Lower East Side and has threatened to block the authority's capital plan if it does not give higher priority to the Second Avenue subway project.
A spokeswoman for the authority, Lisa Schwartz, declined to comment on the comptroller's report yesterday, saying the authority chairman, E. Virgil Conway, would address it in testimony at Mr. Silver's hearing today. A spokeswoman for Mr. Silver, Patricia Lynch, said the speaker would reserve comment until after today's hearing.
Mr. McCall's report acknowledged that the authority was subject to conflicting demands and said the proposal was "laudable because it furthers the process of restoring the regional mass transit system." Flush with sharp increases in riders on its buses and subways and buoyed by the region's strong economy, the authority has proposed expanding its system, instead of merely maintaining it, for the first time in more than 50 years.
The capital spending plan, which would succeed a smaller, $12.5 billion capital program that expires Dec. 31, includes $3 billion for new trains, tracks and tunnels. The biggest projects would be a new $1.5 billion tunnel to bring service on the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal, and work on the Second Avenue subway, budgeted at $700 million.
The plan faces an uphill battle in Albany, since it can be vetoed by any of the four members of the Capital Program Review Board, which includes a representative selected by Mr. Silver. Board members are also selected by the State Senate, the governor and the mayor.
In his report, Mr. McCall joined Mr. Silver and several elected officials in Manhattan in warning that extending Long Island Rail Road service to Grand Central would severely aggravate crowding on the Lexington Avenue subway line, since the plan calls for completing the tunnel long before a new subway along Second Avenue.
But Mr. McCall's chief criticism was that the authority had failed to explain how it would pay for its plans, even if they were not revised to provide more money for the Second Avenue project.
Among the financial questions left unanswered, Mr. McCall's report said, were whether the authority had set aside enough money to reach a new contract with Local 100 of the Transport Workers, its biggest union, whose current contract expires Dec. 15. It said the authority's spending plan also failed to provide for contingencies if the regional economy sours, carving into the economically dependent real estate transfer tax, sales tax and other tax revenues that make up its biggest source of government support.
Even without such a downturn, the report said, the five-year plan would require the authority to take on more than $20 billion in new debt through new municipal bonds. Payments on that debt would come on top of the authority's bills to pay off $13 billion in existing debt, the report said, calling the projected debt payments "an extraordinary amount in a relatively short period of time."
Mr. McCall said the state was the culprit in the authority's financial difficulties. In contrast to the city and the federal governments, he said, the state has refused to increase its contribution to the authority's budget since 1995, when the Pataki administration diverted $220 million in state money to other state obligations -- money that had been sought for authority projects.
Michael F. McKeon, a spokesman for the governor, said yesterday that Mr. McCall's charge was based on "political partisanship." He said Mr. Pataki had "restored millions to the system" and helped create a "true renaissance of mass transit." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (50%); NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TRAINS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); CITIES (73%); VETO (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (67%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); EDDIE GEORGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



55 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: THE 1999 ELECTIONS: NEW JERSEY ASSEMBLY;
Democrats Win Seats in Three Districts, Narrowing Republicans' Majority

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Democrats picked up three seats in elections for New Jersey's 80 State Assembly districts today, narrowing the Republicans' majority in the lower house of the Legislature to 45-to-35.
In an off-year election that set records for high campaign spending and low voter turnout, Democratic challengers picked up at least one of the two seats in the 4th District in Camden and Gloucester Counties. Republican incumbent Gerald J. Luongo, who has faced criticism over involvement in a questionable land deal, appeared headed to defeat. His running mate, the incumbent George F. Geist, won re-election. 
 Democrats also picked up two seats in Mercer County, where Assembly candidates rode the reverse coattails of Glen Gilmore, a Democrat who won the Mayor's race in Hamilton Township.
But Republican incumbents fended off challenges in several fiercely contested races, where Democrats unsuccessfully sought to make gun control and health insurance the crucial issues.
A Democratic challenger, Edward Werner, whose 7-year-old son was the victim of a sensational murder case, failed to unseat either Republican -- Joseph R. Malone or Melvin Cottrell -- in the 30th District in Burlington and Ocean Counties.
The Assembly majority leader, Charles DiGaetano, who set a state fund-raising record by collecting more than $700,000 for his race, also survived a challenge for his seat in Bergen, Essex and Passaic Counties.
Republican party leaders hailed the results as an endorsement of their leadership since seizing the Assembly majority in 1991. Republicans outspent Democrats two-to-one, according to records filed in the Election Law Enforcement Commission, and in the weeks before the election some Republicans had predicted that the party's candidates might retain all 48 of their seats.
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman said that although Democrats did pick up three seats, Republicans still fared far better than majority parties in previous midterm elections.
"Given what has happened in the past during off-year elections in a Governor's second term, we did pretty well," Mrs. Whitman said.
Political analysts said the results would do little to shift the balance of power in the state capital, where both Assembly Speaker Jack Collins and Senate President Donald T. DiFrancesco are believed to be interested in running to replace the Governor when her term expires in 2001.
"It means pretty much status quo politics, no change in power," said Cliff Zukin, a political science professor at Rutgers university. "The seats which changed hands were largely decided on local issues. Incumbents won and incumbents should win when the economy is good, there's no grass roots anger and incumbents raise a boatload more money than do challengers."
With no statewide or national offices at the top of the ballot, and New Jersey enjoying a strong economy and a drop in crime rates, many experts predicted voter turnout would break the record low of 35 percent, set the last time Assembly races led the ballot, in 1995.
But despite tepid interest, fund-raising and spending for this year's campaigns was expected to surpass the record of $12 million set in 1995, according to the director of the state's Election Law Enforcement Commission.
Democrats had hoped to make the election a referendum on gun control and health care. Many public opinion polls show that New Jersey's historically cantankerous voters feel uneasy about gun safety, public education and the restrictions by health insurance companies and health maintenance organizations.
In many races, Democrats blasted Republicans for blocking a bill to make New Jersey the first state to require that all handguns have "smart gun" technology -- devices that prevent them from firing for anyone but their owners.
"Republicans try to talk about how rosy things are, but just beneath the surface, people are concerned about their futures, and whether their children are going to be safe in school," said Julie Roginsky, campaign director for the Assembly Democrats.
But Republicans countered by pointing out that Assembly Speaker Jack Collins had led the successful fight for a bill requiring trigger locks on all guns sold in the state. Republicans also won approval of a bill to set aside $1 million to finance research and development of smart-gun technology. Republicans also pointed out that Democratic legislators and Jim Florio, the former governor who is running for United States Senate, raised taxes by $2.8 billion when they controlled Trenton.
"Under Republican leadership, the Assembly has controlled spending, cut taxes, unemployment is in an all-time low, and I haven't heard of anyone returning their property tax rebate checks to the Treasury," said Chuck Haytaian, Republican state party chairman. "When you compare it to 1991, when the Democrats lost favor, unemployment was in double digits and there had been a $2.8 billion tax increase, today is a good day to be an incumbent."
Indeed, before the night was over, the attention of many elected officials had already turned to next November's race to fill the United States Senate seat being vacated by Frank R. Lautenberg, a Democrat. In recent days, two Republican candidates have announced plans to form exploratory committees for the Senate race: State Senator William L. Gormley and Lewis M. Eisenberg, chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
A Democratic Senate candidate, Jon S. Corzine, a former co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company, also won endorsements, one from the Hudson County Executive, Robert C. Janiszewski, who easily won re-election today. Also, Representative Robert Menendez, a Democrat who was once considered a likely candidate for Mr. Lautenberg's seat, announced today that he would hold a news conference in Washington on Wednesday to endorse Mr. Corzine in his primary battle against Mr. Florio and a former state party chairman, Tom Byrne.
"I waited until after the Assembly elections because I didn't want to detract from the attention from races we were trying so hard to generate attention for," Mr. Menendez said.
In other election results, about 65 percent of voters approved a referendum to issue $500 million in bonds to rebuild some roads and bridges on state and county roads.
Mayor Sharpe James of Newark also helped Democrats retain the only State Senate seat being contested this year, by handily defeating his Republican challenger in a race for the seat vacated when Senator Wynona Lipman died in May. Mr. James won the right to serve the final year of her term, and will have to run for re-election in 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Results: New Jersey's Assembly Races"
Two representatives from each district are to be elected. Results as of 11:18 p.m.
 
KEY: W Winner * Incumbent
 
District 1 Reporting: 100%
 
Mary D'Arcy Bittner, D12, 048 15%
 
Maria Laboy, D11, 709 15%
 
W Nicholas Asselta, R*27, 727 35%
 
W John Gibson, R*26, 570 34%
 
Geraldine Caiafa, JC94 91%
 
District 2 100%
 
Milton Berkes, D12, 026 17%
 
John Piatt, D12, 401 18%
 
W Frank Blee, R*22, 224 32%
 
W Kenneth LeFevre, R*22, 723 33%
 
District 3 97%
 
Ron Brittin, D14, 804 17%
 
John Burzichelli, D19, 789 23%
 
W Jack Collins, R*27, 113 31%
 
W Gary Stuhltrager, R*23, 350 27%
 
Bob McFetridge, JC1, 27 41%
 
Jan McFetridge, JC1, 51 72%
 
District 4 100%
 
David Carlamere, D17, 122 24%
 
W Robert Smith, D18, 528 26%
 
W George Geist, R*19, 430 27%
 
Gerald Luongo, R*16, 289 23%
 
District 5 100%
 
W Nilsa Cruz-Perez, D*16, 141 39%
 
W Joe Roberts, D*18, 218 44%
 
William Spencer, R7, 420 18%
 
District 6 99%
 
W Louis Greenwald, D*22, 772 30%
 
W Mary Previte, D*21, 666 29%
 
Gerard Banmiller, R14, 637 19%
 
Robert Seltzer, R14, 822 20%
 
Gerard Brigante, I81 51%
 
Jay Fox, G89 61%
 
District 7 100%
 
W Herbert Conaway, D*20, 166 28%
 
W Jack Conners, D*20, 309 28%
 
Gary Daniels, R15, 761 22%
 
Clara Ruvolo, R15, 029 21%
 
Hosey Best, JC88 01%
 
Norman Wahner, JC1, 00 81%
 
District 8 99%
 
George Fallon, D14, 592 20%
 
Marie Hall, D15, 036 20%
 
W Francis Bodine, R*22, 463 30%
 
W Larry Chatzidakis, R*21, 579 29%
 
Edward Forchion, LM93 21%
 
District 9 97%
 
S. Karl Mohel, D18, 208 18%
 
Jack Ryan, D18, 124 18%
 
W Christopher J. Connors, R*30, 402 31%
 
W Jeffrey Moran, R*30, 121 30%
 
John N. Cardello, JC1, 50 52%
 
James W. Eissing, JC1, 30 51%
 
District 10 100%
 
Samuel D. Kaye, D14, 401 19%
 
Stephanie Wauters, D15, 492 20%
 
W James Holzapfel, R*22, 455 29%
 
W David Wolfe, R*22, 464 29%
 
Anthony Bertani, JC1, 03 71%
 
Morgan Strong, JC1, 08 31%
 
District 11 100%
 
Michael Beson, D13, 278 19%
 
Dwayne M. Harris, D12, 763 18%
 
W Steve Corodemus, R*20, 818 30%
 
W Tom Smith, R*20, 332 29%
 
Jonathan Moschberger, I37 21%
 
Barbara A. Jones, LT72 31%
 
Leonard Marshall, JC52 41%
 
Wayne May, JC51 11%
 
District 12 100%
 
David Lerner, D13, 967 21%
 
Salvatore Vitale, D12, 980 19%
 
W Michael Arnone, R*19, 198 28%
 
W Clare Farragher, R*18, 523 27%
 
Frances Marshall, JC1, 21 72%
 
Cornelius Van Sant, JC1, 05 12%
 
Mary Jo Christian, NL76 51%
 
District 13 100%
 
Alex DeSevo, D14, 007 21%
 
Patrick Gillespie, D14, 992 23%
 
W Joseph Azzolina, R*18, 913 28%
 
W Sam Thompson, R*17, 445 26%
 
Sylvia Kuzmak, JC53 01%
 
Louis Novellino, JC48 41%
 
District 14 99%
 
Linda Greenstein, D24, 913 25%
 
Gary Guear, D24, 911 25%
 
Paul Kramer, R*24, 571 25%
 
Barbara Wright, R*23, 782 24%
 
District 15 100%
 
W Bonnie Coleman, D*21, 368 33%
 
W Reed Gusciora, D*21, 214 32%
 
Sidney Goldfarb, R11, 455 18%
 
Sheldon Leitner, R10, 382 16%
 
Len Grzywacz, JC93 81%
 
District 16 98%
 
Mike Alper, D15, 356 20%
 
Donald Rudy, D15, 025 19%
 
W Christopher Bateman, R*24, 585 31%
 
W Peter Biondi, R*23, 729 30%
 
District 17 100%
 
W Jerry Green, D*13, 352 35%
 
W Bob Smith, D*14, 330 37%
 
Daniel Epstein, R5, 202 14%
 
Tracy Ford, R5, 547 14%
 
District 18 99%
 
W Peter Barnes, D*17, 641 30%
 
W Barbara Buono, D*18, 877 32%
 
Martin Davidoff, R11, 589 19%
 
Norman VanHouten, R11, 369 19%
 
District 19 45%
 
W Arline Friscia, D*7, 023 35%
 
W John Wisniewski, D*7, 876 39%
 
Frank Cottone, R2, 606 13%
 
William Feingold, R2, 444 12%
 
District 20 100%
 
W Neil Cohen, D*14,189 38%
 
W Joseph Suliga, D*13, 855 37%
 
Elvira Drzewinski, R4, 443 12%
 
Dirk Weber, R4, 486 12%
 
District 21 99%
 
Dennis Caufield, D12, 355 21%
 
Michael Cohan, D12, 548 21%
 
W Kevin O'Toole, R*17, 159 29%
 
W Joel M. Weingarten, R*16, 729 28%
 
Robert Diamond, I51 41%
 
District 23 100%
 
Rebecca Goff, D12, 573 16%
 
Thomas Palmieri, D14, 689 18%
 
W Leonard Lance, R*27, 640 34%
 
W Connie Myers, R*25, 393 32%
 
District 24 100%
 
Edwin Selby, D9, 085 17%
 
W E. Scott Garrett, R*22, 413 42%
 
W Guy Gregg, R*21, 450 41%
 
District 25 82%
 
Gerald Nunan, D8, 172 18%
 
Ronald Pellegrino, D8, 816 19%
 
W Michael Carroll, R*13, 458 30%
 
W Rick Merkt, R*13, 907 31%
 
James Spinosa, JC59 21%
 
Stephen Spinosa, JC57 01%
 
District 26 100%
 
Michael Butchko, D8, 949 16%
 
Robert Dombrowski, D9, 023 16%
 
W Alex DeCroce, R*19, 011 33%
 
W Carol Murphy, R*19, 098 33%
 
Stephen Bauer, JC79 41%
 
Martin McGrath, JC78 01%
 
District 27 100%
 
W Nia Gill, D*12, 649 39%
 
W LeRoy Jones Jr., D*12, 687 40%
 
Charles Davies, R3, 376 11%
 
Patricia Loreto, R3, 389 11%
 
District 28 99%
 
W Wilfredo Caraballo, D*8, 844 39%
 
W Craig Stanley, D*9, 107 40%
 
Hillary Dow, R2, 03 49%
 
Steven Johnson, R2, 01 29%
 
Dick Hester, PLC36 22%
 
Jim Riley, PLC40 02%
 
District 29 97%
 
W William Payne, D*10, 061 42%
 
W Donald Tucker, D*9, 915 42%
 
Tharien Arnold, R1, 51 76%
 
Elaine Guarino, R1, 64 47%
 
Kari Sachs, SW31 01%
 
Brock Satter, SW28 11%
 
District 30 95%
 
Edward Choquette, D13, 156 19%
 
Edward Werner, D14, 144 21%
 
W Melvin Cottrell, R*18, 876 28%
 
W Joseph Malone III, R*20, 276 30%
 
Kal Madgyesy, JC96 91%
 
Fred Rasiewicz, JC92 21%
 
District 31 89%
 
W Joseph Charles Jr., D*12, 013 39%
 
W Joseph Doria, D*11, 595 38%
 
Richard Freda, R4, 111 13%
 
Mofalc Meinga, R3, 188 10%
 
District 32 97%
 
W Anthony Impreveduto, D*17, 169 39%
 
W Joan Quigley, D*16, 766 38%
 
Thomas Corcoran, R4, 537 10%
 
Louis Lusquinos, R3, 90 09%
 
Edith Shaw, PAC91 72%
 
Herbert Shaw, PAC83 52%
 
District 33 99%
 
W Raul Garcia, D*18, 336 42%
 
W Albio Sires, D17, 387 40%
 
Francisco Arrojo, R3, 43 38%
 
Manuel Fernandez, R3, 80 89%
 
Yadira Diaz-Castro, I1,01 32%
 
District 34 100%
 
Gerard DiStefano, D14, 371 21%
 
Robert Ruane, D12, 654 19%
 
W Marion Crecco, R*19, 755 29%
 
W Gerald Zecker, R*20, 402 30%
 
District 35 100%
 
W Nellie Pou, D*13, 854 33%
 
W Alfred Steele, D*14, 070 33%
 
William DeStefano, R7, 406 17%
 
Belinda Lanier, R7, 018 17%
 
District 36 100%
 
Rocco Mazza, D11, 881 21%
 
Kenneth Sorkin, D11, 889 21%
 
W Paul DiGaetano, R*16, 308 29%
 
W John Kelly, R*15, 904 28%
 
District 37 99%
 
W Loretta Weinberg, D*19, 055 35%
 
W Charles Zisa, D*18, 340 34%
 
Richard Bohan, R8, 475 16%
 
Sharon Hes, R8, 226 15%
 
District 38 90%
 
Helene Herbert, D11, 741 22%
 
Robert Riccardella, D11, 423 21%
 
W Rose Marie Heck, R*14, 882 28%
 
W Guy Talarico, R*14, 777 28%
 
Michael Perrone, I76 71%
 
District 39 99%
 
Michael Kasparian, D15, 627 14%
 
Ilan Plawker, D15, 375 14%
 
W John Rooney, R*25,135 23%
 
W Charlotte Vandervalk, R*25, 796 24%
 
Jeffrey Hogue, I26 00%
 
Linda Mercurio, I25,796 24%
 
George Soroka, I1, 05 41%
 
Judith Klein, JC37 30%
 
Michael Koontz, JC33 40%
 
District 40 98%
 
Frank Del Vecchio, D13, 221 20%
 
Joshua Levine, D12, 516 18%
 
W Nicholas Felice, R*20, 754 31%
 
W David Russo, R*20, 505 30%
 
Robert Unanue, JC69 31%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE ASSEMBLY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE ASSEMBLY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CRIME RATES (87%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (79%); MAYORS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); GUN CONTROL (68%); MURDER (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN W GIBSON (76%); LEONARD LANCE (74%); ALBIO SIRES (59%); SCOTT GARRETT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



56 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: THE 1999 ELECTIONS: CHARTER REVISION;
NEW YORK VOTERS STRONGLY REJECT CHARTER REVISION

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
New York voters resoundingly rejected revisions to the City Charter yesterday in a defeat for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who had campaigned for the changes as a referendum on his policies. The vote was a victory for Mark Green, the Public Advocate, and other Democratic politicians, who had criticized the revisions as a mayoral power grab.
"The mayor picked this fight, and now lost this fight," Mr. Green said last night at a celebration at the Two Boots restaurant in the East Village. "Although City Hall outspent our grass roots coalition 10-to-1, our effort won by 3-to-1 because New Yorkers know a scam when they see one." 
 Mr. Giuliani conceded late last night that he should not have promoted such changes this year, and urged the City Council to pass legislation reflecting the goals of many of the charter proposals. "I made a mistake in presenting charter revision this year," Mayor Giuliani said in a news conference at the St. Regis Hotel in Midtown. "The vote against it makes it clear that it was a mistake, and I accept responsibility for it and certainly respect the views of the voters."
Mr. Giuliani, in an unusually conciliatory tone, congratulated "the people who ran the campaign on the other side. They did a very good job, and they're entitled to feel elated by the victory."
Mr. Giuliani had been expected to use a charter victory as evidence of voter support for his programs in the 2000 Senate race as a likely opponent of Hillary Rodham Clinton.
Peter Vallone, the speaker of the City Council, who had campaigned against the charter revisions, said the results were "sweeter than any personal victory I've ever had" and that it proved "that you can never underestimate the intelligence of the voters." Voters understood, he said, that the mayor "was using the charter revision for political purposes, as a weapon."
With 100 percent of unofficial returns tallied by 11:20 p.m., the vote was 76 percent to 24 percent against charter revision, or 281,265 people opposed and 90,838 in favor.
The Board of Elections reported that 11 percent of the city's 3.4 million registered voters turned out on a rainy, blustery day in an off-year election with few major races at stake. But opponents of the charter revision said they believed that voters turned out in relatively high numbers on the Upper East Side, the Upper West Side, in Park Slope and in Brooklyn Heights -- heavily Democratic areas targeted by charter revision opponents. Critics of the changes had predicted that a low turnout would help their side, and argued that only people who were strongly against the charter changes would make the effort to vote.
The most important changes would have required a two-thirds vote of the City Council to approve certain tax increases and would have imposed a cap on city spending tied to the rate of inflation. Mr. Giuliani said the changes were necessary because, in essence, he could trust no future mayor with the fiscal discipline he said he has imposed on the city. Therefore, he said, he had to create a "shadow" of himself.
Critics countered that Mr. Giuliani was behaving like a despot, and that he was trying to seize control of city spending. Critics also said the proposals would make it so difficult to raise taxes that future City Councils might be forced to increase property taxes instead, which would have been exempt from the two-thirds rule under the charter changes.
Among the most politically popular proposals was a requirement for gun-free zones around city schools, the first of the 14 revisions listed altogether on the ballot as Proposition 2, which voters had to vote for or against as an entire package. Critics said such changes should have been more properly enacted through the normal legislative channels of the City Council, and not by changing the city's basic governing document.
Both the mayor and Democratic officials had campaigned extensively for and against charter revision in the week before the election, provoking criticism from good-government groups who said both sides were stepping over a legal line. Under state law, taxpayer-funded entities, like the mayor's office and the City Council, may "educate" but not "advocate" about the contents and consequences of ballot questions. Although neither side explicitly said "vote for" or "vote against" in a series of mailings to voters, critics said the views were implicit.
The Charter Revision Commission also spent taxpayer money on television cable commercials.
"This has been a pretty shabby week in New York politics," said Conn Nugent, the executive director of Citizens Union, a civic group. Mr. Nugent said that the mayor and Randy Mastro, the commission's chairman and a former deputy mayor under Mr. Giuliani, had gone further over the line than the opposition, and had spent what he estimated to be at least $1 million of taxpayer money. "Those guys are getting away with murder," he said.
The mayor's political action committee, Solutions America, also paid for radio commercials and prerecorded phone calls from Mr. Giuliani that did urge people to vote yes, as is allowed with private funds. The calls from Mr. Giuliani had startled many voters, and opponents said last night that they may have backfired.
Although voters seemed to see the proposed charter revision as a deeply uninteresting government debate, the changes were in fact born out of a political feud between Mr. Giuliani and one of his most nettlesome tormentors, Mr. Green, that has rarely been dull. When the Mayor announced the creation of a Charter Revision Commission in June, for example, he did not even bother to deny that a primary motivation was to block the liberal Mr. Green from succeeding him as Mayor -- a nightmare scenario, in the eyes of Mr. Giuliani, that would take the city back to the days of high taxes, rampant crime and a politician unable to say no to special interest groups.
Under the original proposals, the commission would have required a special election within 60 days if the mayor leaves office early, as could happen if Mr. Giuliani is elected to the Senate in 2000 with a year left in his term for mayor. Under the charter's current provisions, the Public Advocate automatically finishes the term of any mayor who leaves office early.
Critics immediately attacked the special election proposal as a vendetta by Mr. Giuliani against Mr. Green, who by the nature of his job and his temperament has aggravated the mayor since since both men took office in 1994. Randy Mastro, the commission's chairman and a former deputy mayor under Mr. Giuliani, eventually retreated under the assaults, and in September announced that the commission would delay the special election provision until 2002, when both Mr. Green and Mr. Giuliani are out of office. Had the voters approved the changes, the rest of the revisions would have gone into effect on Jan. 1, 2000.
Without an impending confrontation between two contentious political personalities, both Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Green seemed to lose interest in the proposed changes. As recently as three weeks before the election, the most striking thing about each side was its silence, although both said they were reserving their money for public education campaigns just before the election.
Last Monday, Mr. Giuliani finally made a speech strongly urging voters to support the charter changes. Meanwhile, a coalition of labor groups and Vote No on Charter Inc., an advocacy group led by Richard Schrader, who is on leave as Mr. Green's chief of public affairs, had been busy canvassing, sending out mailings and operating phone banks.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani voted yesterday at Public School 66 on East 88th Street, near Gracie Mansion. He had considered the charter revision as a referendum on his policies, but it was resoundingly defeated. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (80%); CHARTER REVISION COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (80%); CHARTER REVISION COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REFERENDUMS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



57 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: THE 1999 ELECTIONS: ERIE COUNTY;
Republican Defeats Incumbent In Race for County Executive

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
Joel Giambra, the Republican candidate for Erie County executive who was endorsed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, defeated the Democratic incumbent, Dennis Gorski, who quickly conceded last night.
Mr. Giambra, a former Democrat who switched to the Republican Party last year to run for county executive, will lead upstate New York's largest government, including Buffalo and its suburbs. And he will presumably become an important ally in Mr. Giuliani's all-but-announced race for the United States Senate next year. Mr. Giambra's victory may also help Mr. Giuliani, a Republican, by weakening the local Democratic Party organization, the state's largest outside of New York City. 
 Mr. Gorski, speaking of Mayor Giuliani's endorsement of Mr. Giambra, has said he found political endorsements "repulsive" and "the height of arrogance." He added, "You have somebody from out of town telling people in the community who to vote for, knowing full well he knows very little or nothing about the community in question."
With 79 percent of 1,007 districts reporting, Mr. Giambra had posted unofficial returns of 123, 020 votes, or 54 percent of the total, and Mr. Gorski had 99,185 votes, or 43 percent, with two other candidates, Jeffrey Baran and Mo Saladin, making up the balance.
Mr. Giambra, 42, the City of Buffalo comptroller, campaigned on his proposal for a 30 percent cut in property taxes over the next four years. Mr. Giambra drew some criticism for having only a two-year community college degree. Nonetheless, The Buffalo News endorsed him because, it said, his overall vision and tax cut proposal "most accurately depicts the kind of leadership that Erie County needs at this time."
Mr. Gorski congratulated Mr. Giambra about 9:45 p.m. and began a televised concession speech about 10:15. Previously, he had criticized Mr. Giambra. "I don't think he understands the dimensions of this government," Mr. Gorski, 55, had said.
Last night, Mr. Gorski's press secretary, Michael Hughes, said Mr. Gorski would not be giving interviews. But Mr. Hughes said in a prepared statement that Mr. Giambra was "poised to inherit a government that is well positioned for the 21st century." In his victory speech, Mr. Giambra said, "The community embraced our agenda for change, and now it's time to respect the will of the people."
Steve Pigeon, the Erie County Democratic chairman, has described Mr. Giambra as "a Benedict Arnold" for switching to the Republican Party, but he also noted that the economy upstate had been sluggish and that Mr. Gorski was a 12-year incumbent. "He's the closest neck to strangle," Mr. Pigeon said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUFFALO NEWS (57%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX LAW (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); TAX RELIEF (64%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



58 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
U.S. Would Lift Sanctions If Serbia Has Free Vote
The Clinton administration, in a move intended to bolster opponents of President Slobodan Milosevic, has agreed to lift economic sanctions on Serbia as soon as there is a free election there, senior officials said. A1 

Tension Over Inspections
Access to Russian nuclear sites by American inspectors, always a delicate issue, has become increasingly troubled. And Russia's uneven policy on access is threatening support in the United States Congress for the administration's program to create civilian jobs within Russia's closed nuclear weapons complexes. A12
 
U.S. Pressure on Chechnya
President Clinton urged the Russian Prime Minister, Vladimir V. Putin, to move toward a "political dialogue" in Chechnya or risk serious damage to Russia's reputation, according to an administration official. Mr. Putin was in Oslo, as was Mr. Clinton, to attend ceremonies marking the fourth anniversary of the assassination of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel. A12
 
Mideast Talks in Oslo
President Clinton began what he described as a "last sprint" with Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat to devise a Middle East peace settlement. A6
 
Annan Backs Iraq Coordinator
Secretary General Kofi Annan has asked the United Nations relief coordinator for Iraq to stay on for another year, despite pressure from the United States and Britain. A5
 
Japan Curbs Cult Expansion
The Japanese government approved a bill intended to restrict the expanding activities of the Aum Shinrikyo doomsday cult, the group behind the fatal nerve gas attack in the Tokyo subway system in 1995 and other terrorist acts. A7
 
Ulster Talks Suspended
George J. Mitchell suspended his nine-week-old mission to unblock the deadlocked Northern Ireland peace accord, saying he needed to brief President Clinton and the British and Irish prime ministers, Tony Blair and Bertie Ahern, before reconvening talks in Belfast on Monday. A12
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A14-23
 
Senate Approves 1% Cut That Clinton Denounces
The Senate voted, 49 to 48, for the last spending bill of the year, on labor, health and education. The bill contains a nearly 1 percent cut for all federal agencies, which President Clinton rejected as "blind" and "mindless" and pledged to veto. A1
 
Voting in Several States
Republicans in Virginia gained a majority in the House of Delegates and held control of the State Senate. Democrats won the mayor's offices in Indianapolis and Columbus, Ohio, and Gov. Paul E. Patton of Kentucky gained a second term. Maine voters approved a measure to legalize marijuana for medical use. A22
 
More Bush Views on Education
Gov. George W. Bush, making his third extended campaign speech on public education, said schools should allow more religious expression, teachers should be freer to punish unruly students and the government should more aggressively prosecute children who carry guns. A23
 
Prodigal Senator Elevated
Senator Robert C. Smith, the New Hampshire conservative who left the Republican Party for a brief presidential run and then rejoined it, was elected chairman of the Environment and Public Works Committee, which shapes environmental policy. He succeeds the late John H. Chafee. A23
 
Is Fleeing a Ground for Search?
The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether unprovoked flight from the police is so inherently suggestive of wrongdoing as to turn a person into a suspect who can be chased, questioned and frisked. A16
 
EgyptAir Black Boxes Located
Navy searchers said they had determined the locations of the flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder of EgyptAir Flight 990. A20
 
Findings on Guam Air Crash
Pilot miscues, aggravated by fatigue, caused the 1997 crash of a Korean Air jet on Guam as it tried to land, a federal safety board said. A22
 
7 Workers Slain in Hawaii
The police in Honolulu said an apparently disgruntled Xerox worker drove to his company's offices and shot to death seven co-workers. He surrendered several hours later. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Charter Revision Fails In Rebuff to Giuliani
Voters resoundingly rejected revisions to the City Charter. It was a defeat for Mayor Giuliani, who had campaigned for the changes as a referendum on his policies, and a victory for Mark Green, the Public Advocate, and other Democratic politicians, who had criticized the revisions as a mayoral power grab. A1
 
Nassau County voters ended 100 years of Republican control. A1
 
Mistrial in Subway Killing
A Manhattan judge declared a mistrial of Andrew Goldstein, left, after the jury could not reach a verdict on second-degree murder charges in the death of Kendra Webdale, who was pushed to her death in front of a subway train. Two jurors said they believed Mr. Goldstein, 30, was insane. B1
 
Mayor Assails Federal Judge
Mayor Giuliani accused Judge Nina Gershon of rushing her ruling in the Brooklyn Museum of Art case to block city lawyers from fully investigating the finances of the museum's "Sensation" exhibition. B3
 
EDUCATION B11
 
AIDS Center's Future in Doubt
CUNY has given Queens College until the end of the month to raise several million dollars for its AIDS research center or face the possibility of scaling down the project and even forgoing its planned building. B11
 
ARTS E1-10
 
OBITUARIES C27
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Knicks Win, Nets Lose
The Knicks won their season opener, beating the Cleveland Cavaliers, 92-84, at Madison Square Garden. The Nets lost their opener, 119-112, to the Indiana Pacers. D1
 
Baseball Reshuffling Lineup
The Texas Rangers sent Juan Gonzalez to Detroit in a nine-player deal, and the Seattle Mariners said Ken Griffey Jr. wanted to be traded. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-26
 
Big Pharmaceutical Settlement
Abbott Laboratories, the largest maker of medical diagnostic tests in the nation, agreed to pay $100 million to settle allegations that the company failed to meet federal quality standards when it made hundreds of different medical test kits. A1
 
G.E. Chairman Sets Date
John F. Welch Jr., chairman of General Electric, will retire in April 2001, his 20th anniversary atop the company. A spokeswoman said a successor would be named next year. C1
 
Advertising Acquisition
The Leo Group, which created the Jolly Green Giant and the Marlboro Man, is expected to announce today that it is acquiring the MacManus Group, the creative team behind Folgers coffee commercials. The new agency, which would be the fourth-largest advertising group in the world, will go public next year, company executives said. C1
 
Nasdaq Crosses a Threshold
The Nasdaq rose above the 3,000 mark but then fell back to close up 13.98 points on the day, at 2,981.63; the Dow and the S.& P. 500 were each off about a half-percent. C15
 
Business Digest C1
 
DINING F1-14
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: In search of a Chinese trade deal; financial privacy; diplomacy in Oslo.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E4
 
TV Listings E10
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather B6 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (92%); IRELAND (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (53%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (92%); IRELAND (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US PRESIDENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); ASSASSINATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); JOB CREATION (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (50%); CANNABIS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BERTIE AHERN (54%); EHUD BARAK (54%); TONY BLAIR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



59 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C;Page 27;Column 1;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Kenneth L. Schnitzer, 70, Dies; Innovative Houston Developer

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Kenneth L. Schnitzer, a visionary Texas real estate developer and civic leader whose 30 commercial buildings form much of the Houston skyline, died on Monday after a six-month battle with lung cancer. He was 70.
Casting out on his own after a stint as salesman for his family's Magnolia Paper Company, Mr. Schnitzer, still in his 20's, began a career that over almost five decades produced such Houston landmarks as Greenway Plaza, the 71-story Wells Fargo Bank Plaza, the 50-story Enron building, the Mcorp Plaza and Citicorp Center. 
 Another monument was the Houston Summit, a sports arena now known as the Compaq Center that, as a public-private joint venture, served as a model widely copied elsewhere.
Some of his projects, particularly the 127-acre Greenway Plaza, were also among the nation's first large-scale, planned urban developments to emphasize greenbelts and extensive landscaping.
A third-generation Houstonian who attended the University of Texas and the University of Houston, Mr. Schnitzer started in 1967 to assemble the land for the Greenway Plaza project by negotiating separate purchases of 300 homes for an average price of $45,000 and five years of rent-free occupancy. Few homeowners held out in those negotiations, which his sons said he regarded as one of his proudest achievements.
By the early 1980's, the complex had a 400-room hotel, an underground shopping mall, the Summit home of professional sports teams and a workday population exceeding 12,000 spread through 10 office towers. He won a political fight to have the city build the arena, which opened in 1975, at Greenway Plaza instead of downtown.
In the arena's early years, Mr. Schnitzer was co-owner and managing partner of the Houston Rockets basketball team and the Aeros hockey team, both Summit tenants.
"He could see things others miss," said Don Jordan, chairman of Reliant Energy. "He really changed the skyline in this city."
Among other things, Mr. Schnitzer was a founding director of Houston Proud, which was created to spur a rebound from the oil price collapse in the 1980's; founding chairman of the Houston Economic Development Council, and director of the Greater Houston Partnership and the Greater Houston Convention and Visitors Bureau.
His reputation as a civic leader and a philanthropist survived charges that he and two other local businessmen committed fraud involving an ailing savings and loan in Pasadena, Tex., an industry that suffered acutely in Texas when the price of a barrel of oil plunged to single digits. A Federal jury convicted the men, but the judge, in a rare intervention, acquitted them and was upheld on appeal. The land deal central to the case, it was ruled, had been a substantive transaction and not the "cash for trash" exchange that prosecutors maintained.
Bob Lanier, a former mayor of Houston, said Mr. Schnitzer "was scapegoated" by the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Federal agency responsible for selling distressed savings and loan assets. "It was a business transaction that backfired because the value of the property went down," Mr. Lanier said.
In his mid-60's, a vacation in Mexico inspired Mr. Schnitzer to create and develop a master-planned resort in Los Cabos, near the tip of Baja California, raising his sights from a handful of units to a $200 million luxury community called Villas del Mar overlooking the Sea of Cortez that is to be completed in 2005.
Mr. Schnitzer is survived by his second wife, Quinlan Quiros Schnitzer of Houston; two sons, Kenneth L. Jr. of Dallas and Douglas W. of Houston; four grandchildren, and three stepchildren. His first marriage, to the former Joan Weingarten, ended in divorce.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Nov. 3 about Kenneth L. Schnitzer, a Houston real estate developer, omitted a reference to two former wives, who survive him. They are Pam Duke and Kathryn Schnitzer Freeman.
A picture caption about some of Mr. Schnitzer's projects misidentified the buildings. Starting from the second to the left, they were the three buildings of the Allen Center and the Enron building; the Greenway Plaza was not shown.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The work of Kenneth L. Schnitzer, urban projects that emphasized open space and landscaping, included the Greenway Plaza in Houston. (Rick Gardner); Kenneth L. Schnitzer (Gittings & Lorfing, 1997)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); WFC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); WELLS FARGO & CO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); CITIES (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); BANK FAILURES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); SPORTS (75%); JOINT VENTURES (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LUNG CANCER (72%); CANCER (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING (71%); HOMEOWNERS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (64%); JURY TRIALS (64%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (64%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (64%); VERDICTS (62%); APPEALS (60%); ACQUITTAL (60%); 

PERSON: WELLS FARGO & CO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1999



60 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 8; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE PROUD;
Making the Kitchen Easy on the Cooks, and on the Senses

BYLINE: By DONNA PAUL

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I.

 BODY:
THE kitchen of the past was designed for one sex: female, whether hired cook or lady of the house. Social changes, however, have ensured that today, everyone is in the kitchen, and happy to be: teenagers, children, men, the elderly and, yes, women.
So, what's wrong with that? 
 The kitchen, says Jane Langmuir, an architect. It hasn't caught up.
"We get coded at a very early age by memories of the place we grew up in, and think, 'Why change it?' " Ms. Langmuir said. "But that kitchen was designed for a single person 5-foot-6. And when you start putting everyone else in, it's not going to work very well."
"Until you start to carefully watch how people behave in it," she added, "you're unaware of the unsafe, the inefficient -- yes, the stupid things we do."
Fighting words, but then Ms. Langmuir enjoys challenging articles of faith. As an associate professor in the interior design department at the Rhode Island School of Design, she dreams of kitchens designed for everyone's ease, from a 5-year-old working on a Mother's Day breakfast to a 6-foot-2 man pulling together a dinner party. A kitchen like the one she recently remodeled for Lisa Limer, a photojournalist; her husband, Ernesto Ugarte, an international economist, and their two sons.
With both adults traveling frequently for business, they needed a kitchen that one parent could navigate easily, with areas for children to hang out or participate in and room for Ms. Limer's two sisters to help cook during family celebrations. Ms. Limer also admired the solid, open feeling of kitchens she had seen in Morocco and the Mediterranean.
Ms. Langmuir describes her mission as creating "the nurturing center of the home."
T HE renovation at the Limer-Ugarte house, an 1896 Tudor-style home in the College Hill section of Providence, came at the same time that Ms. Langmuir was directing the universal-design kitchen portion of "Unlimited by Design," an exhibition at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum last winter. Too often, she explained, people think of universal design as something for the disabled, but she sees it more broadly, as an approach with practical and creative solutions that can benefit everyone.
The 300-square-foot Limer-Ugarte kitchen was a handy laboratory, allowing Ms. Langmuir to translate her ideas into warm, rich materials -- teak, granite and marble, which she used to great effect in small proportions, mostly for counters.
"You don't need a lot of expensive materials," she argued, challenging another misconception. "One doesn't need the endless counter surface we often see in so many new kitchens." In fact, she says that being able to stand in one place and complete a task is more efficient than moving around a large counter space.
The kitchen, which had not been renovated since the early 1960's, was a jumble of three small rooms. It was an eyesore of avocado-green Formica and brick-pattern linoleum. Several windows had been covered over, plunging the kitchen into gloom. The refrigerator, inexplicably, was in a separate room. And the microwave oven above the old stove was out of comfortable reach and dangerous for children "likely to drag over a stool to the stove and step up on it," Ms. Langmuir said.
Today, the chopped-up configuration has become a single spacious room organized into zones: a cooking area, a wet preparation area and another for cleanup and storage. Some of the ideas were simply logical, like placing the cleanup area near storage.
Ms. Langmuir began by redesigning the traditional work "triangle" that maps a cook's most frequent moves: from refrigerator to sink to stove. In today's track-size kitchens, the cook is often a long-distance runner, dragging the steaming pasta pot all over the place.
The architect found a way to contain these elements in a three-foot space, a step from each other. Even if you were to remove all the rich materials, you would see the efficiency of Ms. Langmuir's plan. Following are some other innovations:
EASY ACCESS "Cooking and prep surfaces should be an extension of your arm," Ms. Langmuir said. "You want to be able to look down at what you are doing." The cooking surface she designed for this kitchen is 34 inches high, two inches less than the industry standard. Reaching across one front burner to stir a pot in the back is a potential hazard, so she came up with an elegant and efficient alternative: two gas burners positioned side by side, two others one behind the other.
Major cooking tasks, like sauteing, are done on the side-by-side burners. The other burners are devoted to simmering and keeping food warm. A grill is positioned next to the side-by-side burners as well, which allows for easy access. The cooking units, from the General Electric Monogram series, were slightly more expensive than the combined ones, she explained, "because you're buying two components rather than one complete unit, but the benefit in flexibility really does outweigh the cost."
THE TROUGH Early kitchens were equipped with large, shallow sinks designed to handle all the washing functions that today's smaller sinks cannot accommodate. A modern version of this old-fashioned trough, made by a craftsman on Cape Cod, is 42 inches long and cost $540. At only four inches deep, it works as well for preparing vegetables as it does for washing and draining dishes. A built-in wood cutting board slides back and forth as needed. Below the sink are slide-out metal racks (doors can interfere with movement).
THE SPLIT-LEVEL ISLAND For the center of the kitchen, Ms. Langmuir designed a three-level work island made of wood; one level is topped with teak, another with marble and the third with granite -- expensive materials made affordable thanks to the small amounts used. She positioned the levels at different heights -- 42 inches, 34 inches and 29 inches -- to correspond to a variety of functions: baking, cutting, dining. Her split-level design was based on a study suggesting that starting and completing a task in one place is more efficient. "The whole pleasure of this kitchen is that you really don't have to move," Ms. Limer said. "Everything is within one turn."
CUT CORNERS ON THE CUTTING EDGE Mr. Ugarte and Ms. Limer got the Sub-Zero refrigerator they wanted, but saved at least $1,000 by choosing a new year-old model. A tip: Ms. Langmuir suggests buying a refrigerator with the freezer drawer on the bottom. "It is much more efficient to have the main body of the refrigeration higher up, in the comfort zone of the user."
OPEN CABINETS -- "Doors have no spirit," Ms. Langmuir said firmly. Open storage offers the visual relief of decorative pottery, spices and stacked plates. Vertical cabinets were recycled from the original kitchen, with new glass fronts. They are linked by a custom-made drying rack, inspired by ones that Ms. Limer used while living in Spain and designed by Tom O'Brien. Mr. O'Brien, a craftsman who deliberates over every detail, copied the seven compartments and shallow arches from a book illustrating Moroccan kitchens. Then, he measured each pot and pan to determine the size of the openings. The floor of the drying rack is teak, which has a natural oiliness that repels moisture instead of absorbing it.
The kitchen was constructed for $46,000, including the contractor's fee, making it slightly less expensive than the average kitchen renovation in the United States, which is between $50,000 and $60,000, according to the National Kitchen and Bath Association, a trade group. Their figures show that in 1998, Americans spent $35.9 billion on kitchen remodelings.
Ms. Limer contributed marble tiles she found in Madrid, and the architect integrated them into a border between the former pantry and kitchen. Excavating layers of linoleum, the team discovered a terrazzo floor, rare in Northeast kitchens. "A great find!" Ms. Langmuir said. It gave the room a European feeling of solidness and craft.
"I was not adhering to convention for convention's sake," Ms. Limer said, admiring the outcome recently from her perch at the new island. "Everything has a reason behind it. Jane never once did anything that was superficial or only for impact."
Interruptions for travel and frequent changes during the planning period added to the cost and extended the renovation to 13 months.
"They ate out a lot," Ms. Langmuir recalled, laughing. "Lisa started out with a simpler notion, and once she started it, she treated it like a work of art. She was like a painter retouching the canvas. She'd stand back and say, 'It needs this.' And we'd find it."
"People tend to think that universal design is practical," she added, "and not aesthetically pleasing. But it is really good design -- and inherently that's beautiful."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: LOW MILEAGE -- Jane Langmuir, above right, began designing a kitchen for Lisa Limer, above left, and her family by rethinking the work "triangle." The refigerator, sink and stove are now all within a step of each other. Original cabinets got new glass fronts and are connected by a custom-made drying rack. EASY ACCESS -- Gas burners, right, positioned side by side are for major tasks; the others, for simmering and warming. Above, open storage doesn't restrict free movement. THE SPLIT-LEVEL ISLAND -- The work island is designed at different heights to correspond to a variety of kitchen activities: baking, cutting, eating. "Everything is within one turn," Ms. Limer said. THE TROUGH -- The long sink, below, is designed for multiple functions. Right, a cutting board slides back and forth, and metal racks slip from beneath the sink. FLOOR PLAN -- The kitchen, once a jumble, is organized into zones, with areas for cooking, for preparation and for cleanup and storage. (Photographs by Lisa Limer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); MOROCCO (53%); MEDITERRANEAN (53%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (91%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MOROCCO (53%); MEDITERRANEAN (53%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (91%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHILDREN (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (50%); 

PERSON: JANE LANGMUIR (93%); LISA LIMER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



61 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 8; Column 1; Circuits

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Sniffing Out New Ways To Uncover Land Mines

BYLINE: By CATHERINE GREENMAN

 BODY:
FOR decades, the United States military and international relief organizations have been searching for low-cost, effective ways to rid the world of land mines. There are more than 100 million mines buried in 70 countries, and they kill or maim more than 2,000 people per month, according to United Nations estimates.
Experts agree that existing methods of detecting land mines are costly and inefficient. Metal detectors, which are commonly used, have high rates of false alarms due to the abundance of unrelated scrap metal in the soil. And many mines are composed primarily of plastic, which metal detectors cannot recognize. 
 Other methods are problematic as well. Ground-penetrating radar, which transmits high frequency energy into the ground from an antenna, can detect large anti-tank mines but cannot find anti-personnel mines, which are often no larger than two inches in diameter. And although dogs can be trained to sniff out explosives in the ground, they have short attention spans and tire after a couple of hours.
"The ideal system finds every land mine with no false alarms, doesn't cost very much, uses almost no power and contains almost no volume," said Dr. Regina Dugan, head of the Defense Applied Research Projects Agency, a division of the United States Army that is financing several research projects in land mine detection.
Building a detection system that meets Dr. Dugan's criteria has been an uphill struggle. But one of the most promising projects uses a technology called nuclear quadrupole resonance, or N.Q.R. Unlike metal detectors, N.Q.R. detectors seek out the explosive material rather than the metal surrounding the land mine.
The defense projects agency is working with Quantum Magnetics and Information Systems Laboratories, both based in San Diego, to develop portable nuclear quadrupole resonance devices that can detect large and small mines.
The detectors work by sending low-frequency radio wave pulses into the ground. Different types of explosives produce characteristic responses in the signals which are then picked up by the detector.
Nuclear quadrupole resonance is similar in principle to nuclear magnetic resonance, the type of technology used in hospital imaging systems. But where the hospital systems use large magnets to generate a nuclear magnetic response, N.Q.R. uses a radio wave antenna that has a magnetic field associated with it.
Although the technology has been effective in detecting the explosive RDX, it has been less successful in detecting the most common explosive, TNT. But Dr. Dugan says the system will soon be perfected to detect TNT.
The agency plans to develop a quadrupole resonance device that can detect virtually every type of explosive, and to incorporate metal-detecting capabilities into the system. "We believe that N.Q.R. may well represent the first breakthrough we've had in land mine detection since the invention of land mines," Dr. Dugan said. "We'll know in the next couple of months if we've solved the problem."
The prototype N.Q.R. devices resemble metal detectors -- waist-high poles with search coils at the base. The device is connected to amplifiers and a computer that are mounted on racks on a flatbed truck.
The goal is to produce a system that weighs about 25 pounds, uses 20 to 50 watts of electricity and fits into a backpack. They will cost $5,000 to $10,000 if produced in volume, said Dale Sheets, president and chief executive of Quantum Magnetics. Although this is a reasonable amount for a military budget, it may be too expensive for many nongovernmental organizations.
"The next step is to reduce the cost and make it rugged enough for heavy use for both military and humanitarian demining purposes," Mr. Sheets said.
Although attempts to use N.Q.R. to detect land mines date back to the Vietnam War, the technology lacked accuracy, which resulted in too many false alarms.
The agency is also financing research projects with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Nomadics Inc., a company based in Stillwater, Okla., toward the development of an electronic sniffer that mimics the olfactory capabilities of dogs and other mammals.
A handheld device being tested contains a small pump that draws air containing TNT vapor from the ground across an amplifying fluorescent polymer. Any TNT vapor in the air binds to the polymer, diminishing the fluorescence. The diminished fluorescence is detected by a microprocessor and other electronics inside the device.
"Until now, it's been virtually impossible to detect TNT in the field with an instrument," said Colin Cumming, president of Nomadics. "At this point, we're optimistic we'll have a working prototype within a year."
In addition to various detection technologies, efforts are being made to standardize information on land mines that is being collected by international organizations. With the help of the United Nations Mine Action Service, many organizations are entering information about the location of mines. The maps can be overlaid with additional information about the area, including the locations of bridges, hospitals and water sources.
Tore Skedsmo, chief of the Mine Action Service, said digital mapping programs have helped organizations analyze data about mines according to their location, rather than their quantity. The removal of 5 or 10 mines close to a town or bridge, for example, takes priority over hundreds of mines in a remote field.
"Four or five years ago," Mr. Skedsmo said, "we were much more interested in the number of mines in a given area. By looking at the spatial relationships on the maps, we're able to look more closely at the impact the mines have on the health and economic situations, and to base demining action on these factors."
The service is developing an information management system with the Geneva International Center for Humanitarian Demining, a nongovernmental organization. This database and mapping software has been developed for use worldwide and provides a repository for data on hazardous areas and other mine-related information.
"There can be many different organizations, including peacekeepers, working in a mine-affected country," said Alastair McAslan, a British army colonel working with the Geneva group, "so we want to encourage a standard database and digitized mapping. Access to accurate maps is essential, but in many cases it's not possible to obtain Government-controlled maps on the open market."
Colonel McAslan said the short-term goal is to establish an international clearinghouse of maps and satellite images of countries where there are land mines that participating organizations could view on the Internet. "It would be a mechanism to exchange information between governments and organizations that share a common interest," Colonel McAslan said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Land mines in Kosovo delayed NATO peacekeeping troops from moving in last June. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: QUANTUM MAGNETICS (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); LANDMINES (90%); METAL DETECTORS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ARMIES (78%); RADAR SYSTEMS (76%); EXPLOSIVES (73%); HOSPITALS (63%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (58%); 

PERSON: REGINA DUGAN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



62 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 4; Circuits

LENGTH: 1738 words

HEADLINE: The V-Chip Arrives With a Thud

BYLINE: By CATHERINE GREENMAN

 BODY:
WITH KENNY dying a violent death in almost every "South Park" episode, wrestlers on cable channels engaging in round-the-clock head-banging and plenty of bare skin showing in prime time, it is not surprising that many parents find a lot of what is on television unfit for their children.
But when offered something that would block violent or racy shows, would parents actually use it? 
 It seems not, if the arrival of the V-chip is any indication. The V-chip, circuitry that can be used to block broadcasts according to a ratings system, quickly gained the support of Congress and parents' groups in the mid-1990's after it was developed by Tim Collings, a Canadian professor and engineer. As of July 1, the Federal Communications Commission, carrying out a mandate from Congress, has required manufacturers to include a V-chip in half of their televisions with screens that are 13 inches or larger. By January, all of the roughly 20 million sets in those sizes sold in the United States each year will be required to have one.
But whether it is because of a lack of consumer awareness, or because it is difficult to use or because parents do not feel they need it, the V-chip has few users, judging by interviews with retailers, industry experts and consumers. Even groups that support the V-chip acknowledge that it has yet to catch on with the public.
"We're very supportive of it, but there's very little real media information about it," said Ginny Markell, president of the National P.T.A. "There's a huge percentage of the population that's unaware that it's even available, and unless a family's in the market for a new TV, it's not on their radar."
Proponents of the V-chip and the ratings system say they can be useful aids to parents in controlling what their children watch. But the federal mandate is viewed by many manufacturers, broadcasters and parents as unwanted government interference.
"We didn't feel it was applicable to us, because a lot of our programming is music videos," said Greg King, a spokesman for Black Entertainment Television, a cable broadcaster that does not use the ratings system, which is voluntary. "But once you go ahead with a ratings system, it makes you wonder what's next, as far as censorship goes."
Russ Neuman, a professor at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, said that the V-chip "became about politics and economics rather than children and viewing."
"However well intentioned it was at its inception," Professor Neuman added, "it may not have anywhere near the effect of its intended purpose."
Retailers say that consumer interest in the V-chip is lukewarm and that the technology is hardly much of a selling point for televisions with the latest gee-whiz features like picture-in-picture and Dolby sound.
"It's not on the tip of people's minds right now," said Michael Perlman, president of BrandsMart USA, a Miami-based retail chain.
"It doesn't really surprise me that we're not seeing people coming in droves to get it," said Dave Arland, a spokesman for Thomson Consumer Electronics, based in Indianapolis, which manufactures RCA and General Electric TV's. "It's not something that America was clamoring for. It's something that Congress was clamoring for."
Mr. Arland said that although the chip adds only minimally to the price of a television, Thomson would have preferred to offer it as an added feature for those who really wanted it.
When asked in a telephone interview whether she had heard of the V-chip, Lisa Albinus, a mother of two preschoolers in Harrisburg, N.C., said, "Is it something you use to identify your children?"
Upon learning what the V-chip could do, she responded: "I'd still want to watch the shows myself. 'Rugrats' is rated for kids but they show them how to throw food and be disobedient to their parents."
Others, like Rachel Leventhal, who is the mother of a 2-year-old and was shopping at a Circuit City store in Manhattan on a recent Sunday, had heard of the V-chip, but were unaware that it was available.
"It might be something I think about in a few years," Ms. Leventhal said. "Hopefully, they'll make a better one by then."
Gloria Tristani, an F.C.C. commissioner and chairwoman of the V-Chip Task Force, which was put together in May, acknowledged that lack of awareness was a problem. "It's hard to get people to use something if they don't know it exists," she said, "so the major problem is getting information out there."
Ms. Tristani added that the task force was urging retailers to publish flyers about the V-chip and that broadcast associations and networks would be sponsoring public service announcements about it in November to coincide with the holiday shopping season.
Retailers including The Wiz, Sears and BrandsMart USA have not run advertisements about the V-chip's availability, partly, they say, because of the lack of consumer interest.
The rating system itself, which was developed by representatives of the National Association of Broadcasters, the National Cable Television Association and the Motion Picture Association of America, can be difficult to understand, with six basic ratings that can be subdivided for specific content like adult language or violence. And because the networks rate their own programs, what constitutes suggestive dialogue on one network might not on another.
Broadcasters that use the system play down the problems. "There was some initial concern that the ratings system might be a little complicated," said Julie Hoover, a spokeswoman for ABC, "but we've trained our editors and we're very comfortable with the internal consistency of the ratings within our department. If a parent watches a little programming and gets familiar with the ratings, it becomes pretty clear what the designations are."
But others outside the broadcast industry have a less charitable view of the ratings system, believing that it is purposely complex.
"It's in the interest of the broadcasters to make the V-chip technology as useless as possible so that it wouldn't ever eliminate any potential audience," Mr. Neuman said. "That's the economics of box office ratings, as well as the ratings for television."
The idea of using technology to help parents control what their children watch has long had support in Congress, which in 1996 overwhelmingly passed a law overhauling the communications industry that included the requirement that V-chips be added to televisions. And in surveys, parents have applauded the V-chip, at least in theory. In the latest such poll, of 1,000 parents conducted this year by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, an independent national health care philanthropy, 77 percent said they would use the V-chip if they had one. But that theoretical support has not translated into use.
Many parents believe that monitoring their children's television viewing is their responsibility and bristle at the notion that they need a V-chip. "I don't know how the V-chip works, but I don't really trust that someone else is going to have better judgment than we will," said Kevin Mann of Brockport, N.Y., who has a 6-year-old daughter.
"I realize that most parents have jobs and can't be with their kids at all times, but the V-chip is just one more instance where parents are being given the opportunity to relegate their responsibility to someone or something else," said Mike Jenkins, of Dublin, Ohio, whose 11-year-old daughter watches television only when accompanied by her parents.
But advocates of the V-chip say it can be an effective tool for keeping young children from stumbling across something they should not see. Joanne Cantor, a children's media consultant and the author of "Mommy I'm Scared: How TV and Movies Frighten Children, and What We Can Do to Protect Them" (Harcourt Brace, 1998), uses an RCA television on loan from Thomson Consumer Electronics to block some programs and movies for her 10-year-old son. "I pretty well trust him," Ms. Cantor said. "I think of the V-chip as less of a policing function and more of a protecting function."
But parents who want to use the V-chip will find the system difficult to set up. With most televisions, the V-chip can be programmed by pressing the menu button on the remote control. (On some models, the chip is programmed with controls on the surface of the television set.) The parent chooses a personal identification number, or lock code, which allows the parent to activate, deactivate and change the controls.
Parents can select as few or as many of the six program ratings in the scale that they want to allow. For example, by selecting only programs that are rated TV-Y (for children of all ages), any program with a rating of TV-Y7 (for children age 7 and older), TV-14 (for children 14 and older) or TV-MA (for a mature audience only) will be blocked. Without the lock code, children cannot change the programming selections.
Content descriptors, which were added to the age-based ratings in negotiations with child advocacy groups in July 1997, signify the presence of violence (V), sexual situations (S), coarse language (L), suggestive dialogue (D) or fantasy violence (FV), which is defined as "fighting presented in an exciting -- even thrilling -- way."
Although not indecipherable, the V-chip and the ratings system take time to understand how to use. When presented on the screen and in program listings, the boxes of letters and numbers for the rating resemble something you might recite for an eye doctor.
Industry analysts say the system's complexity contributes to consumers' ambivalence. "The V-chip's user interface and the rating systems are not particularly intuitive or convenient," said Jay Srivatsa, senior industry analyst at Dataquest, a research firm in San Jose, Calif. "If people can't figure out how to use it within a few minutes, they might not bother."
Although the system is far from perfect, parents need to learn how to use it, said Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Media Education, which publishes a guide to the V-chip (www.vchipeducation.org).
"Parents are going to have to get used to this alphabet soup of guides telling them what's in the content," he said, "as we enter the digital age and Internet content becomes available on TV. The V-chip is the first formal development in what will be a heavily rated media world."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joanne Cantor says she uses the V-chip to protect, not police, her son, Alex Larsen, 10. (Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. G8); The V-chip allows parents to block certain types of programs, using a remote control. (Andy Manis for The New York Times)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BLACK ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (52%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); PARENTS (77%); CENSORSHIP (72%); RETAILERS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (54%); 

PERSON: DAVE ARLAND (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



63 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. vs. Main St.

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Oct. 29 front-page article "Strong Summer Apt to Propel Economic Boom to a Record" says that as the United States economy "expanded at a brisk 4.8 percent annual rate in the June-September quarter . . . the cost to employers of wages and benefits rose only modestly."
This news "was so popular on Wall Street that the value of stocks and bonds soared." 
 Stagnant wages and stingy benefits causing "Wall Street's delight" during what soon promises to be this country's "longest economic expansion in history" (Business Digest, Oct. 29) are surely worrying indicators of the growing rift between Wall Street and Main Street.
 
ROBERT G. HENKE
Montclair, N.J., Oct. 29, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); BONDS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



64 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE EURO FALLS. The dollar rose against the euro, as investors avoided big bets on the euro to await clearer signals from Europe on interest rates. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0485, down from $1.0515 on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the dollar to the euro, since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EURO (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTEREST RATES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



65 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Women Make Rapid Gains in the Chase for Doctoral Degrees

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
The annual total of women receiving Ph.D.'s has increased by more than 50 percent in a decade, growing at over twice the rate of the number of men getting those degrees, a new study has found.
As a result, a record 40.6 percent of more than 42,000 research doctorates awarded by United States universities in the 1996-97 academic year went to women, according to the annual study, by the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago. The study measures only research degrees, not professional degrees in medicine and law. 
 The percentage of research doctorates awarded to members of minorities was also a record, rising to 9 percent of all doctorates and 14.2 percent of those given to United States citizens. In the latter category, blacks accounted for 5 percent of doctorates, Hispanics for 3.8 percent, Asian-Americans for 4.9 percent and American Indians for 0.6 percent.
The gains by women and members of minorities reflect not only more active recruitment of them by universities but also an increase in their numbers within doctoral programs as a result of normal cycles in the nation's economy, said Allen Sanderson, senior research scientist at the National Opinion Research Center and senior lecturer in economics at the University of Chicago.
University enrollments generally run counter to economic cycles, rising in bad economic times and falling in better environments as jobs become plentiful. Most Ph.D. students in the study spent about seven years earning the degree, meaning that many entered their doctoral programs just as the economy was slipping into recession in mid-1990.
Whatever the relative influence of these factors, the 17,322 Ph.D.'s awarded to women in 1997 were more than half again as many as the 11,432 given them in 1987. The rate of growth far surpassed that of men, who received 24,999 research doctorates in 1997, as against 20,938 10 years earlier.
The most recent such gains achieved by women are in keeping with a long upward trend in their share of doctorates, which in turn followed a period of decline.
Ph.D.'s awarded to women rose briefly above 20 percent in 1945, since World War II, with large numbers of men in the armed services, saw an increase in the proportion of female graduate students. After the advent of the G.I. Bill, though, that proportion decreased, and women received just 9.1 percent of the Ph.D.'s awarded in 1954, the lowest total since the collection of such data began in 1921. The percentage of female degree recipients doubled from 1954 to 1974, rising to 19.5 percent of the total, then doubled again in another 20 years, to 38.6 percent in 1994.
The study found that in 1997, the total number of doctorates earned grew for the 12th straight year, extending a string of gains not seen since the rapid annual growth in graduate-student ranks in the late 1960's and early 1970's, when students were given an exemption from the military draft. From 1987 to 1997, the study said, the yearly total of doctorates awarded grew by a third.
But the rate of growth in 1997 alone, 0.7 percent, was the lowest since 1985, meaning perhaps that the long economic boom is drawing potential students away from study and into the work force.
Indeed, the number of science and engineering doctorates fell by 1 percent in 1997, though that is a decline that might well be reversed among graduates five years or so down the road, given the Internet boom. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (92%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); WOMEN (90%); MEN (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); ASIAN AMERICANS (69%); WORLD WAR II (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



66 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Fed Survey Raises Hopes That Rates WillStay Steady

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
The economy remains strong with some evidence of slower growth, the Federal Reserve said today in reporting the results of its latest regional economic survey. The findings suggested that Fed policy makers might not be in a rush to raise interest rates when they meet on Nov. 16.
The Fed survey, known as the beige book, cited weaker retail sales in some districts and a slower pace of growth in residential retail construction, as evidence the economy is starting to cool. Retail prices are generally tame as the expansion continues toward a record for longevity early next year, the Fed said. 
 "Most districts continue to report strong economic growth but some slowing is noted. Many districts report a pickup in wage increases, but overall prices remain stable," the report said.
Increases in prices were noted in some areas of manufacturing sectors, health care, chips and construction materials.
And the Fed said that labor markets remained tight across most of the country, though some easing was noted in information technology as preparation for Year 2000 problems was being completed and in some health care jobs.
Also today, reports showed that factory orders and the index of leading indicators fell in September for the first time in five months. Factory orders fell nine-tenths of a percent in September after a 1.3 percent gain in August as demand for aircraft declined, the Commerce Department said.
The index of leading economic indicators, intended to predict growth in the next half year, fell one-tenth of a percent in September after no change in August, the Conference Board, a private industry group, said.
The Federal Reserve's regional outlook is based on reports from the Fed's 12 district banks, and is published eight times each year.
The job of collating and writing the beige book report is randomly rotated among the Fed banks. The latest edition was compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis.
The information was gathered before Oct. 25. The report will help form the basis for discussion on the target interest rate on overnight loans between banks at the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee.
Studies have shown that while it reasonably reflects current economic conditions, the beige book does not offer much guidance on the committee's main concern: what is going to happen.
"Manufacturing activity continues to advance in almost all districts and for most industries," the Fed's report said.
"Real estate and construction remain robust in most districts, though indications of some slowing have surfaced recently," the report said. "Most districts report that residential and nonresidential construction is constrained by labor shortages and higher prices on some construction supplies."
The report said consumer spending "generally remains strong and most retailers are expecting increases in holiday sales from last year," although four districts reported a slowing in recent demand.
The beige book -- basically a collection of economic anecdotes -- gives committee members an idea of developments beyond statistics.
"According to the Fed, the absence of pricing power has prevented rising commodity prices and wages from passing through to finished goods prices," said Susan Hering, chief economist at Indosuez Carr Futures in Chicago, before the report was released. "Particularly damaging would be any evidence of renewed pricing power for manufacturers or retailers."
At its last meeting, on Oct. 5, the Federal Open Markets Committee voted to leave the overnight bank lending rate unchanged at 5.25 percent, after increasing it by a total of half a percent at its two previous meetings.
At the same time, central bankers adopted a bias toward raising rates in the future, saying they were concerned about the potential effect of continued tight labor markets on inflation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Leading Indicators" tracks indes of 10 indicators designed to "lead," or predict overall economic activity. Data tracked from April 1998 through September 1999. (Source: The Conference Board); "Factory Orders" tracks manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, over the same period. (Source: Commerce Department)
 
Charts: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis"
Components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from August to September.
 
Average workweek of production workers in manufacturing
Contrib. to Index: Unch.
 
Average initial weekly claims for state unemployment insurance*
Contrib. to Index: -0.04
 
New orders for consumer goods and materials, adjusted for inflation
Contrib. to Index: -0.06
 
Vendor performance (companies receiving slower deliveries from suppliers)
Contrib. to Index: +0.15
 
New orders for non-military capital goods, adjusted for inflation
Contrib. to Index: Unch.
 
New building permits issued
Contrib. to Index: -0.08
 
Index of stock prices
Contrib. to Index: -0.01
 
Money supply: M-2, adjusted for inflation Spread between rates on 10-year Contrib. to Index: +0.01
 
Treasury bonds and Federal funds
Contrib. to Index: -0.03
 
Index of consumer expectations
Contrib. to Index: +0.03
 
*Series is inverted in computing index; that is, a decrease in the series is considered upward movement.
 
(Source: The Conference Board)
 
"Some Slowdown Reported Along With Continued Growth"
A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday.
 
Minneapolis -- Economy remained strong, but the agricultural center was running low.
 
Chicago -- The economy showed signs of slowing. Retail sales were below expectations.
 
Cleveland -- Business remained strong, and some upward pressures in wages persisted.
 
Boston -- Business activity continued to grow and maufacturers reported increased revenue. Retail sales rose.
 
New York -- The economy showed signs of a slowdown, with moderation of consumer demand and tame inflation.
 
Philadelphia -- Business activity grew. Retail sales remained solid and manufacturing orders rose.
 
Richmond -- Economy expanded solidly though there was some easing in interest-sensitive areas.
 
Atlanta -- The economy registered mixed growth. Manufacturing rose, but there were still areas of weakness.
 
St. Louis -- The economy continued to operate at full capacity. Businesses reported moderate growth and shortages in labor.
 
Kansas City -- The economy slowed in late September and early October. Retail sales declined and labor markets remained tight.
 
Dallas -- The economy continued to grow. Manufacturing accelerated and demand for service was strong. Retail sales growth slowed.
 
San Francisco -- The economy was strong, with rapid growth in retail sales and service. Manufacturing picked up. (Includes Alaska and Hawaii)
 
(Source: Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (64%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RETAILERS (76%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (76%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); HEALTH CARE (68%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



67 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

THE AMERICAS
 
CANADA: NEW CHIEF JUSTICE
Prime Minister Jean Chretien named Beverley McLachlin chief justice of the Supreme Court. She is the first woman to hold the position. Ms. McLachlin, who has served on the court for a decade, has been called an egalitarian jurist and a radical feminist. In a September decision, Ms. McLachlin wrote that an aerobics test that led to the firing of a woman as a firefighter was discriminatory. In a July decision she barred a boy from suing his mother for prenatal injuries. The conservative Canada Family Action Coalition, denounced the appointment. James Brooke (NYT) 

MEXICO: FINAL POLLS FAVOR LABASTIDA
Final opinion polls before the governing party's presidential primary on Sunday showed Francisco Labastida Ochoa, a former interior minister who is the candidate of the party establishment, leading Roberto Madrazo Pintado, a maverick former governor running as a rebel. In personal interviews with the Reforma newspaper, 34 percent of 2,540 registered voters in all 32 states supported Mr. Labastida and 28 percent backed Mr. Madrazo. The margin of error was 2 percentage points. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
MEXICO: A MEETING OF TOP JUDGES
The chief justice of Mexico's 10-member Supreme court, Genaro Gongora Pimentel, visited Washington to meet with his American counterpart, Justice William H. Rehnquist. The Mexican high court has traditionally been subordinate to the country's all-powerful presidents, with some presidents simply dismissing justices whose opinions they have disliked. Mr. Gongora is seeking to modernize the Mexican system. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
EUROPE
 
GERMANY: U.S. IN CLASH ON GLOBAL WARMING
At a 150-nation conference in Bonn, the United States clashed with the European Union and developing countries over how and when to ratify an anti-pollution accord reached two years ago in Kyoto, Japan. Environment ministers were deeply split over the issue of how pollution could be cut without hurting economic growth. The European Union and Japan want a global warming accord in place by 2002, but the United States declined to set a deadline. Victor Homola (NYT)
 
LITHUANIA: PREMIER APPROVED
Parliament endorsed its conservative deputy chairman, Andrius Kubilius, 43, as the new prime minister, putting an end to weeks of political turmoil. He was nominated by President Valdas Adamkus after Rolandas Paksas resigned in protest at the privatization of the Mazeikiai oil refinery. (Agence France-Presse)
 
SERBIA: U.S. SHIFT OFFICIAL
The Clinton administration, in a move to support political opposition to President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, confirmed it would lift economic sanctions on Serbia if free elections were held there. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright was joined by eight opposition leaders as she made the announcement in Washington. The administration previously said sanctions would remain until Mr. Milosevic left office or was ousted. Officials in Belgrade denounced the plan as interference in Serbia's internal affairs. (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: PORTILLO LOOKS TO COMMONS
Michael Portillo, the former defense secretary who lost his Commons seat in 1997, has become the Conservative candidate in a secure Tory London district and is certain to return to Parliament in a by-election next month. He is widely seen as a stronger potential leader of the party than its current head, William Hague. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: MITCHELL REPORTS
George J. Mitchell discussed his nine-week-old effort to rescue the stalled Ulster peace accord with Prime Minister Tony Blair at 10 Downing Street and then left for Washington to brief President Clinton. The former United States senator adjourned the talks after they failed to end a deadlock over guerrilla disarmament and will reconvene them Monday in Belfast. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
UNITED NATIONS
 
COUNCIL CRITICIZED ON WAR CRIMES
The departing president of the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague said the Security Council was doing too little to help bring indicted people to justice. In a letter to the Council, Gabrielle Kirk McDonald said requests for help made by the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia were too often ignored. States in the former Yugoslavia are shielding indicted men, refusing to recognize the jurisdiction of the tribunal and refusing to admit investigators, she said. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
ZIMBABWE: DOCTORS END STRIKE
Doctors in state-run hospitals ended a six-week strike after the government assured them that their concerns over pay and working conditions would be addressed. The action by hundreds of physicians forced major hospitals to send many patients home. The doctors, who say they earn the equivalent of about $160 a month, have been promised a significant pay raise by next year. Henri E. Cauvin (NYT)
 
SOUTH AFRICA: PRISON CHIEF QUITS IN SCANDAL
The head of the country's prison system resigned amid accusations that he used government money to sponsor a soccer club and pay for a scholarship program in his name at his alma mater, Jackson State University in Mississippi. President Thabo Mbeki, who has vowed to curb government corruption, had been under pressure to dismiss the official, Khulekani Sitole. Henri E. Cauvin (NYT)
 
ALGERIA: AMNESTY FOR 6,000
The authorities have freed 167 Muslim militants in a presidential amnesty for more than 6,000 prisoners, the official Algerian news agency reported. The agency said the amnesty for 6,683 detainees marked the 45th anniversary of the Nov. 1 revolution, the start of Algeria's war of independence against France. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
JORDAN: DECISION ON JOURNALISTS
In a reversal, the Jordanian Press Association has decided not to expel three members who visited Israel in September or to ban them from working, the head of the association said. The move to punish the three was approved by the group's board on Oct. 19. The three, from Arabic-language dailies and the English-language Jordan Times, have repeatedly said their visit, at the invitation of Haifa University, were exercises of "personal freedoms." (Agence France-Presse)
 
IRAQ: U.S. JETS ATTACK
American warplanes attacked Iraqi air-defense sites after coming under fire during routine patrols of the northern Iraq no-flight zone, the United States military said. The planes targeted artillery sites northwest of Bashiqah and north of Tall Afar, the European Command said in a statement. The jets, based in Incirlik, in southern Turkey, left the area safely, the statement said. (AP)
 
IRAQ: 7 DIE IN ATTACK ON DISSIDENTS
Iranian opposition forces at a base 30 miles north of Basra suffered heavy casualties in a explosion they say was caused by a missile fired from Iran. Iraq said "a foreign state" was responsible for the deaths of 7 Iranians and Iraqis and the wounding of 78, but did not name Iran or mention missiles. Iran denied responsibility. (Reuters)
 
ASIA
 
ARMENIA: BROTHER SUCCEEDS BROTHER
The brother of Armenia's assassinated prime minister was appointed to succeed him by President Robert Kocharyan. A spokesman said Aram Sarkisian, 38, would replace his older brother, Vazgen, who was gunned down with seven other top officials during a raid on Parliament a week ago. Aram Sarkisian is the director of a cement factory and has not been active in politics. (Reuters)
 
SRI LANKA: REBELS PUSH ON
Tamil rebels overran several military posts in the north, killing hundreds of soldiers, an army official said. The rebels seemed to be driving the army south, a day after they stormed into Oddusudan, 155 miles north of Colombo, killing 150 soldiers. (AP)
 
SOUTH KOREA: AIRLINE PUNISHED
The government banned Korean Air Lines from adding new international routes for one year, after American investigators said pilot error and cockpit confusion were the main causes of a 1997 jumbo jet crash in Guam that killed 228 people. Samuel Len (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Map of Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); LITHUANIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (74%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (53%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (51%); SECURITY COUNCIL (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITY COUNCIL (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); LITHUANIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (74%); KINKI, JAPAN (53%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); JUDGES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); GOVERNORS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); PRIVATIZATION (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); 

PERSON: JEAN CHRETIEN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



68 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Report Shows the Economic Might of Urban Areas

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Cities and their suburbs account for a huge part of the nation's economic well-being, the United States Conference of Mayors said today in a report intended to persuade presidential aspirants to pay more attention to urban affairs.
"We want to know what you are going to do for 125th Street and Lenox Avenue and Beale Street in Memphis and the Five Points neighborhood in Denver," said Mayor Wellington E. Webb of Denver, president of the conference. 
 The report said metropolitan areas accounted for 84 percent of the nation's gross domestic product and generated 84 percent of the nation's jobs.
Many have economies larger than those of foreign countries, it said. Metropolitan economies also account for 88 percent of the nation's income and were responsible for 89 percent, or more than $2 trillion, of the nation's economic growth from 1992 to 1998, the report said.
Mr. Webb was in Washington as the conference of mayors and the association of counties released a study of the nation's 317 largest metropolitan areas that contends that cities and their surrounding suburbs provide the engine that drives the nation's economy.
The report ranks the 317 largest metropolitan areas, individual states and nations in terms of goods and services produced.
For example, the New York City region ranks first among metropolitan areas and 19th on the overall list in its production of goods and services, just behind the Netherlands and just ahead of Australia.
If metropolitan areas were ranked as nations, they would account for 47 of the world's largest economies, the report said, and if the 10 largest metropolitan areas were combined, only the United States, Japan and Germany would have larger economies.
The Los Angeles-Long Beach, Calif., area was the second largest metropolitan area and ranked 25th in the overall list, just behind Russia and ahead of New Jersey.
Chicago followed in 29th place, behind Michigan and ahead of Taiwan. Boston ranked 40th, ahead of Washington state and behind Turkey. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (68%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FIVE POINTS TECHNOLOGY (57%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (90%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (90%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (68%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITIES (91%); MAYORS (90%); RANKINGS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); COUNTIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: WELLINGTON E WEBB (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



69 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Technology Issues Lead Nasdaq to 5th Consecutive Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Technology stocks propelled the Nasdaq composite index to a fifth consecutive advance and its first close at more than 3,000 points yesterday, extending a gain that in slightly more than two weeks totals 12.7 percent. It was the market's fourth-busiest session on record.
The Nasdaq composite index finished at 3,028.51, up 46.88 points, or 1.57 percent. 
 Other major averages made only small gains, however, as investors and traders awaited the government's report on the October job market, set for release on Friday.
The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 27.22 points, to 10,609.06.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 7.19 points, to 1,354.93, as General Electric rose 2 15/16 a share, to 131 3/8; Intel jumped 2 3/16, to 79 11/16, and American Home Products climbed 5 5/8, to 56. American Home is discussing a merger with Warner-Lambert, which also rose 5 5/8 a share, to 83 13/16.
Other drug stocks also attracted buyers: Schering-Plough rose 2 3/16 a share while Bristol-Myers, Johnson & Johnson and Merck all rose more than 1.
High technology carried the day, buoyed by Qualcomm's announcement of quadrupled profits and a 4-for-1 split and by bullish talk at technology conferences sponsored by Prudential Securities and others.
"Everybody's saying business is somewhere between good and booming," said Greg Smith, chief investment strategist for Prudential. He cited word this week that Ford and General Motors have formed Internet-based partnerships with Oracle and Commerce One, respectively, to facilitate purchases from suppliers.
Oracle jumped 4 1/4 a share, to 57 5/16 yesterday while Commerce One soared 46 15/16, to 254 13/16. Qualcomm, already the best-performing stock in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index this year, surged another 29 11/16, to 260 7/16.
"Commercial storage and business-to-business e-commerce just continue to rocket," said W. Shannon Reid, senior portfolio manager at First Capital Group.
Interest rates continued to ease yesterday as the government reported that factory orders fell in September for the first time in five months, more evidence that the economy is finally slowing from its rapid pace.
This tended to support the view that the Federal Reserve, which has a policy meeting set for Nov. 16, will need to make no more than one more monetary tightening and could avoid making any.
On the other hand, said David G. Sowerby, a market strategist at Loomis Sayles in Detroit, "stocks could weaken" if the Labor Department reports strong job growth or a further decline in the 4.2 percent unemployment rate, matching the lowest in a generation, on Friday.
The session also featured another popular initial public offering. Be Free, a Massachusetts company that provides Internet marketing services for online merchants, offered 5.6 million shares at 12. The stock traded as high as 36 1/4 before closing at 29. A total of 13.6 million changed hands.
Tobacco stocks benefited from a signal that Florida's highest court might head off a huge damage award in a class-action suit by smokers against the industry.
Small-capitalization stocks continued their recent rebound. The Russell 2000 climbed 1.4 percent, or 6.07 points, to 438.46, while the Standard & Poor's index of 600 small companies moved up 1.21 percent to push just above break-even for the year. The Russell 2,000 is up 3.91 percent so far this year.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange remained heavy, expanding to 914.4 million from 904.6 million on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (70%); PFE (NYSE) (70%); JNJ (NYSE) (68%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (70%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (70%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (70%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (70%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (68%); INTEL CORP (58%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); QUALCOMM INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (96%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); MERGERS (78%); BONDS (78%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



70 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Tight Governor's Race Will Be Decided by Mississippi House of Representatives

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.

 BODY:
More than 740,000 people went to the polls in Mississippi on Tuesday to choose a new governor. But it appears the race will be decided by the 122 members of the state's House of Representatives.
That is because neither candidate ended up with more than half the vote, barring a recount or absentee ballots tipping the balance over the next several days. And, under Mississippi law, such outcomes are decided by the House. 
 Democrats outnumber Republicans 2 to 1 in the state House. So if the decision is left to that body, in all likelihood the next governor of Mississippi will be the Democratic candidate, Lt. Gov. Ronnie Musgrove.
With 100 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Musgrove had 49.5 percent of the vote; his Republican opponent, Mike Parker, a former Congressman, had 48.6 percent, and the rest was split between two little-known candidates.
"This is the state's closest governor's race, certainly in the 20th century, and I think forever," said Eric Clark, the Mississippi secretary of state.
One reason the race was so close was that the two candidates held almost identical views on the issues, especially on how to improve Mississippi's schools and economy. Both also played up family values, a hot issue in a conservative, Bible Belt state whose incumbent governor, Kirk Fordice, has had very public marital problems.
Under Mississippi law, a winning candidate for a state office must have 50 percent of the vote, plus one more vote. Until now, there has never been any reason to resort to the law to decide a governor's contest.
Should Mr. Musgrove end up the winner, his victory will do more than return control of the office to the Democrats after eight years in Republicans hands, the only period of Republican control in the past 125 years. A Musgrove victory would also be a significant addition to an already impressive string of victories around the country by Democrats in Tuesday's off-year balloting.
Republicans had some signal victories too, most notably capturing control of the Virginia Legislature for the first time. But the Democrats had the most victories, though not enough, in the opinion of many political analysts, to draw any reliable indication about what might be in store for the major parties in 2000 elections.
Democrats took over the mayors' offices in Indianapolis and in Columbus, Ohio, putting together inner city multiracial coalitions to end almost 30 years of Republican control in each city. Democrats also narrowly beat back a determined Republican challenge in the mayor's race in Philadelphia and they easily brushed aside Republican efforts to capture the mayors' offices in Baltimore and Houston. Further, the Democratic incumbent in the Kentucky governor's race, Paul Patton, readily won re-election.
President Clinton called Tuesday's results a big win for his party and characterized the Mississippi race as "truly historic."
Joe Andrew, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, proclaimed that "the Democratic Party is on the move" and saw the victories in Indianapolis and Columbus as encouraging demonstrations of resurging Democratic strength in urban America, especially in the industrial Midwest, which could be a major battleground in Election 2000.
Jim Nicholson, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, chose to focus on his party's win in Virginia, calling it "a bellwether for all the elections which are going to be held all over America next year." He also found victory in the narrow Republican defeat in heavily Democratic Philadelphia.
More dispassionate observers of national politics tended to take less definitive views of Tuesday's results.
Steven Hess, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said, "You really can't make an awful lot out of an election like this."
And Earl Black, a political scientist at Rice University, said that "no party goes into 2000 with a clear, comprehensive national victory from these off-year elections" because of their "obviously mixed results."
Both national parties poured big money into the Virginia and Mississippi contests.
At issue in Virginia, from a national standpoint, was which party would be in control of the legislature in 2001, when Congressional district lines will be redrawn around the country. That process could ultimately help determine which party controls Congress.
At issue in Mississippi, from a national standpoint, was whether Democrats could keep a victory roll going in Deep South governors' races, having stemmed a long Republican roll by winning last year in Alabama and South Carolina.
But outside help in the Mississippi race was not limited to outside money. In the case of the Democrats, the Rev. Jesse Jackson also provided some help, bringing in volunteers to help register black voters in the Delta, a region that reported a particularly heavy turnout on Tuesday.
The black vote also played an important role in the mayor's elections in Indianapolis, Columbus and Philadelphia. In Indianapolis and Columbus, where black voting power has expanded as more and more whites have moved to the suburbs, blacks teamed with working-class whites and gave the Democratic Party the edge it had previously lacked to take over the mayor's office.
In Philadelphia, many black voters took the politically rare step of going over to the Republican side, drawn by a candidate willing to address their issues. In the end, however, not quite enough jumped across to provide a victory, especially after worried Democratic leaders persuaded President Clinton to come in for a rally.
"What Tuesday's voting in Mississippi and the Midwest and elsewhere ultimately tells us," said Mr. Jackson, "is that blacks and whites increasingly are voting shared economic interests and not just racial issues. That's an important new pattern."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The fates of Ronnie Musgrove, left, a Democrat, and Mike Parker, a Republican, were up in the air. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (99%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (91%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (95%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (95%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (99%); OHIO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); BALLOTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); FAMILY (66%); CITY LIFE (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



71 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
'Dangerous Consequences'

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In Oslo the other day, the ex-K.G.B. man who is Russia's prime minister of the month delivered a letter from President Yeltsin to President Clinton:
"Dear Bill," I am told it began, "I would like to share with you, in confidence and with the utmost candor" -- and then a Kremlin spokesman put out, in less confidence, the guts of the letter: that if the U.S. proceeded to mount any defense of its territory against nuclear missiles, "it would have extremely dangerous consequences for the entire arms control process." 
 That threat -- signed "Respectfully, B. Yeltsin" -- puts Clinton in a bind. He is acutely aware of the dilemma that is likely to face his successor:
A rogue state invades its neighbor, threatening some vital U.S. interest. The U.S. president mobilizes a strike force to stop the aggression. The dictator responds with a threat to fire a nuclear missile at New York.
That U.S. president turns to the director of central intelligence, who says: "We suspect that state may have an untested nuclear device. We know that it has a stolen intercontinental missile. The odds are 50-50 that he is bluffing. Of course, because we adhere to the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty, we have no defense against such an incoming missile."
What do you decide, Mr. president? Do you call the possible bluff, resolutely defending our interests abroad at the risk of losing an American city? Or do you prudently back down, blaming Bill Clinton for his legacy of leaving this country naked to its new enemies?
This is not a novel or a movie plot. As states like Iraq, Iran, Sudan and North Korea develop the technology of terror, and as well-financed terrorist organizations buy the components of nuclear missiles, that agonizing choice is more likely than not to face our president -- unless we start now to deploy a defense that can shoot down a score or two of incoming missiles. That would counter the threat before it materializes.
Why do Yeltsin's manipulators pretend to see this as a strategic threat to their thousands of missiles? Why are they enlisting China and the U.N. in a campaign to deny the U.S. this rudimentary protection from rogue states? Why do they ostentatiously test their SS-19's and antimissile missiles, threatening an end to strategic arms control if we build a tactical umbrella for a nuclear-rainy day?
On the surface, the Yeltsin position seems irrational. The Russians know a defense against individual missiles would not challenge their nuclear superpower status. They know that the development of missiles that kill missiles -- which they could steal from or wheedle out of us -- would protect them from a growing threat from Iran's Islamic fundamentalists on their border and in Chechnya. Then why their fuss?
Answer: It's their main leverage on us. Using our outdated treaty with a U.S.S.R. that no longer exists, Russia will extort the highest price it can in economic and military aid for graciously granting America permission to defend itself against rogue-state missiles. By posing ABM as a matter of principle, B. Yeltsin will respectfully hold us up for all he can.
Clinton's approach is to buy the Russians off with economic aid and improvements on their radar. He sees John McCain making our nuclear nakedness a campaign issue, and George W. Bush will deal with it in his Nov. 19 foreign policy address at the Reagan Library.
Accordingly, Clinton will weigh the state of our antimissile technology, the budget-busting cost of a limited system, the growing threat from rogue states and the attitude of allies like Japan toward theater defenses. Then I'll bet he will offend the Democratic left with a decision in early summer to deploy a limited system -- just in time to strike a tough pose for the political conventions.
Hard-liners here are having none of this time-consuming, unnecessary and expensive negotiation. President Nixon made sure the ABM treaty had a withdrawal clause. If we now tried to buy minor alterations to the old treaty, we would undercut our ability to soon build an effective land- and sea-based, space-monitored defense.
This is no time for dancing with bears. Too many American lives are at stake. We need National Missile Defense now. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); OSLO, NORWAY (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); FUNDAMENTALISM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (69%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%); RELIGION (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



72 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: A Challenge to Yugoslavia

 BODY:
The Clinton administration has signaled an important and welcome change in its policy on economic sanctions against Serbia. Hoping to strengthen the democratic opposition to Yugoslavia's president, Slobodan Milosevic, Washington now says it will ease its restrictions on commerce and travel as soon as Mr. Milosevic submits himself to free and fair elections. Previously the administration said these sanctions would continue as long as Mr. Milosevic remained in power.
There are risks to this new approach. Mr. Milosevic, though unpopular, might still prevail in free elections by playing off the divisions among his chronically fragmented opposition. But the chance is worth taking. If anybody is going to rid European politics of Mr. Milosevic, his wars and his ethnic persecutions, it will be the Serbian people, who should now recognize that his leadership has repeatedly brought them moral and military disaster. 
 With its new policy, Washington gives encouragement to Serbian opposition parties and sends exactly the right message to the Serbian people. The main purpose of sanctions all along has been to discredit and weaken Mr. Milosevic by making it difficult for his government to sustain jobs and incomes and provide the European amenities Serbia enjoyed in earlier years. The White House also hoped that economic pressure would take a toll on the military and police forces that Mr. Milosevic has used for ethnic and political repression.
But with the prospect that sanctions might continue for many years to come, Belgrade could contend that they amounted to unjust and permanent punishment of the entire Serbian nation. Now Washington can fairly argue that the sanctions will eventually benefit all Serbs if they compel Mr. Milosevic to let them choose their government.
To make it even clearer that Washington is not out to punish ordinary Serbs, the administration should build on its recent decision to accept a European plan to provide winter heating oil to two Serbian cities. Oil should be made available to all Serbian households. It is a form of humanitarian relief and never should have been included in the ban on aid aimed at rebuilding factories, bridges and roads hit by NATO bombers in the spring.
Sanctions are generally most effective when they have a clear and specific goal and target their punishment as clearly as possible on those who have the power to bring about the desired change. By linking the sanctions against Serbia to free elections and by limiting the pain inflicted on innocent parties, Washington will improve its chances of forcing Mr. Milosevic from office. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); HEATING OIL (62%); POLICE FORCES (51%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



73 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Bill to Combat Drug Traffic Caught in Lobbying Battle

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER with TIM GOLDEN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Efforts by the Republican chairman of the Senate intelligence committee to soften a bill that would expand economic sanctions against drug traffickers and the businesses that work with them have touched off a furious dispute on Capitol Hill.
Such sanctions were imposed by presidential order in 1995 against four groups who were said to be the biggest cocaine traffickers in Colombia. The new legislation would extend sanctions to traffickers worldwide.
 Aides to the committee chairman, Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, say he is merely trying to fix flawed legislation that might allow overzealous government officials to seize the assets of legitimate companies tied to drug trafficking by scant evidence. 
 But some of Mr. Shelby's fellow Republicans have taken unusually vehement exception to his stance, suggesting that opponents of the law have been influenced by Washington lobbyists working for companies that might be affected by the legislation.
"We have discovered in this Congress that we are not insulated by the efforts of the kingpins to buy influence and corrupt our political institutions," Representative Bill McCollum of Florida, a Republican member of the House intelligence committee, said on the floor shortly before the legislation passed overwhelmingly Tuesday night. "Their narco-lobbyists were paid well to try to shape and gut this bill."
Mr. McCollum did not mention Mr. Shelby or name any of the lobbyists.
Despite the strong support in the House, the bill has run into trouble in the Senate, where Senator Shelby and a few of his colleagues, including the Democratic vice chairman of the intelligence panel, Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, have raised objections.
Aides to Senator Shelby said he would like to see the bill amended so potential targets of the law would have strong protection. Assets should not be seized, for example, without a legal finding that the companies were deliberately involved in the drug trade. Mr. Shelby also wants provisions that could protect the assets of owners or subsidiaries of drug-trafficking concerns that are not themselves connected to the drug trade.
Opposition to the bill has been directed by some of Washington's most powerful law firms, according to Congressional aides who have been the subject of their lobbying.
The most prominent firm, Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand -- which employs Bob Dole, the former Senate majority leader and Republican presidential candidate -- has been hired by Transportacion Maritima Mexicana, the biggest transit company in Mexico. The company has fought vigorously to clear its name after news accounts quoted United States intelligence reports tying it to the drug trade.
John Merrigan, a partner at Verner, Liipfert, said his client had been put in the impossible position of having to refute untrue reports based on anonymous sources.
"We have been proposing in every forum, at every stage, that this legislation provide for the full prosecution of drug traffickers and their associates," Mr. Merrigan said.
"On the other hand, we have serious concerns that the bill may not even provide minimal due process, judicial review or other reasonable protections for innocent companies," he said.
He acknowledged that his firm had paid particular attention to Mr. Shelby and other members of the Senate intelligence committee.
Senator Shelby declined to answer questions about the legislation, his role in it or the dismissal of a staff member who said he had lost his job because he opposed the senator's efforts to reshape or block the bill.
Mr. Shelby referred questions to his press secretary, Andrea Andrews, who said it was "completely untrue" that his objections were based in anything but the desire to improve a faulty bill. As for the dismissed committee staff member, J. K. Stinebower, she said, "The primary reasons for his dismissal had nothing to do with this legislation."
Mr. Stinebower played an important role in drafting the bill and pushing it forward. He said he was dismissed for continuing to try to produce a tough bill after Senator Shelby changed his views.
"I was fired for my work in initiating and drafting the bill," Mr. Stinebower said. "The phrase they used was my 'failure to follow the priorities and directives of the chairman.' "
He said he was also accused of abusing his annual leave.
Senator Paul Coverdell, Republican of Georgia, a principal sponsor of the legislation, said it was "being bottled up" by concerns voiced by Senator Shelby and Senator Pat Roberts, a Kansas Republican who also sits on the Senate intelligence committee.
No public hearings have been held on the legislation, which was passed as a separate bill in the House and is attached to a Senate bill authorizing intelligence activities.
Senator Kerrey, the ranking Democrat on the intelligence committee, said public hearings should be held to determine the bill's potential impact on trade. Mexican business have expressed concern that companies unknowingly associated with others connected to drug-running might be damaged by the law.
Mr. Kerrey disputed the notion that lobbyists -- "K Street," in Washington shorthand -- were steering the bill. "The idea that K Street is rolling us is false," he said.
The legislation looked like it was sailing through the Senate until late in September. Then, according to Republican and Democratic members of Congress, a new draft version appeared from Senator Shelby's office.
"It suddenly appeared about a month ago," Senator Coverdell said. "I know that Verner, Liipfert has been involved, promoting language that we feel nullifies the legislation -- that makes it not work."
Documents circulated in Congress by the firm and provided by Congressional aides advocate changes similar to those proposed by Mr. Shelby.
The key element, Senator Coverdell and other members of Congress said, was language in the bill that said a target of the law would have to be a "knowing, willful and intentional" drug trafficker and that the target could go to court to keep the government from invoking the law.
These changes, according to Treasury Department officials and supporters of the bill, would make it unworkable. And a staff member of Congress involved in the process called the influence of the lobbyists and their clients on the bill "one of the smelliest things I've ever seen, if not the smelliest."
The issues in question may be subtler than the accusations of influence, however. They include free trade, intelligence, the American counternarcotics effort and the interplay of law and lobbying. The way they play out will be determined by negotiations between the Senate and the House in coming days.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTACION MARITIMA MEXICANA SA DE CV (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); ASSET FORFEITURE (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); COCAINE (73%); LAWYERS (71%); 

PERSON: RICHARD SHELBY (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



74 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: A Quiet Roar: China's Leadership Feels Threatened by a Sect Seeking Peace

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: BEIJING, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Has it come to this: that the Chinese Communist Party is terrified of retirees in tennis shoes who follow a spiritual master in Queens?
So it almost seemed here during recent days of bizarre scenes of arrests and flying invective against the Falun Gong movement. 
 As security forces worked frantically to round up believers who converged on Beijing to plead Falun Gong's case, the government left no doubt that it intends to wipe out all organized traces of the movement -- even if that requires jailing thousands of people who never saw themselves enemies of the state.
Behind closed doors in recent weeks many Chinese, from professors to cab drivers, have said the government has overreacted. Many say its blunt repression of a spiritual movement that attracted hordes of ordinary people seeking health and happiness will cause lasting social divisions and further erode faith in the party.
But many experts on Chinese politics say China's Communist leaders probably saw little choice.
Their first principle is preserving the rule of the party, which they equate with protecting social stability. And they have consistently tried to stamp out any competing loyalties. "Logically, they had to do this," said Suesheng Zhao, a Chinese-born political scientist at Colby College in Maine who is a visiting fellow at Stanford. "For the Communist Party, the greatest threat is a nationally organized force."
Since its founding in 1992, Falun Gong, a mix of cosmic healing theories, Buddhism and Taoism that promises salvation in a corrupt world, had gained millions of followers -- retirees, middle-aged women and even many officials and students, who gathered regularly in public parks to practice their mystical exercises.
"For the party this was a big problem," said Roderick MacFarquhar, a professor of Chinese politics and history at Harvard University. "The party cannot allow the existence of a rival mass organization with control over the hearts and souls of the ordinary people -- and exposing their own ideological vacuum."
Although the group was outlawed on July 22, unknown thousands of its believers have refused to fade away, creating an unexpected crisis and forcing the government to mobilize all its media and social organizations, even bosses in work places, to engage in ritual condemnations.
In the months since the ban, official vilification of the group and its elusive founder, Li Hongzhi, who moved to New York in 1998, has grown ever more shrill -- a sign that the eradication campaign has not gone smoothly.
On Saturday senior Communist legislators described Falun Gong as "unprecedented in the 50-year history of the People's Republic in terms of its size of organization, influence, number of illegal publications as well as the damages it brought to society," the New China News Agency reported.
These were strong words for a group that had received little high-level attention before it held an unauthorized vigil in Beijing on April 25, when some 10,000 members from several provinces quietly gathered around the leadership compound to protest published critiques of their movement and to demand official recognition.
By its very existence, this gathering was the most serious challenge to Communist Party authority since the student-led demonstrations of 1989.
When they outlawed Falun Gong, the authorities charged that Mr. Li and a small cabal of leaders had a secret political agenda to subvert the nation, though no evidence was offered.
Mr. Li, who keeps in touch with an expanding global following through the Internet, insists he has no political aims. He has never advocated the overthrow of Communist rule, or even a more liberal policy on religion. And his believers insist they just want to be left alone to focus on their inner "cultivation."
But the believers have also been quick to mobilize in defense of their movement, in hundreds of smaller protests before and since the giant demonstration in April in Beijing. In China such defiance of authority is inevitably considered deeply political.
Although it has retreated from many spheres of personal and social life, the Communist Party still demands the stated allegiance of every organization. But as is evident in their willingness to face arrest, the more fervent followers of Falun Gong give their supreme loyalty to Mr. Li and what they consider his life-transforming theories.
When it banned Falun Gong, the government brought a variety of criminal charges against Mr. Li and arrested a number of top organizers. Thousands more who persisted in proclaiming their faith have since been detained or harassed in cities all around the country.
In Beijing over the last 10 days, more than 3,000 protesters were rounded up as soon as they were detected, officials said. Many were bused back to the authorities in their hometowns for "re-education," which may mean loss of jobs or time in labor camps.
But the police seem unable to mop up a core of believers, in Beijing and elsewhere, who say they are prepared to risk everything for their faith and have made smart use of e-mail, mobile phones and pagers to communicate with each other and with supporters abroad.
At the same time the effort to discredit and destroy Falun Gong, using the familiar scripts of Communist dictatorship, has shifted into high gear.
Last Thursday, in an effort to bolster the moral and legal case, the party's newspaper, People's Daily, featured a front-page commentary arguing that Falun Gong is an "evil cult" that any government would have to suppress.
The rank and file, it said, were mere dupes of Mr. Li's "sorcery." Small numbers of people continue to operate under Mr. Li's "remote control," it said, and are "unable to see the blood-soaked truth." Chinese authorities have blamed the group for at least 1,400 deaths of members who refused needed medical care.
Today another People's Daily editorial said, "Like all cults, Falun Gong is an antisocial, antihuman, antiscience and antigovernment malignant tumor."
The group does have some cult-like features, including fervent devotion to one man's off-beat doctrines, obsessive secrecy and often extreme reactions to criticism. Master Li, as followers refer to him, has been caught dissembling about aspects of his background, about his presence in Beijing just before the April demonstration and about some of his wilder claims of supernatural powers, among other things.
But the government offered no convincing evidence for its comparisons of Falun Gong to the Jim Jones cult, which committed mass suicide, and the Branch Davidians, who died while under F.B.I. attack in Texas.
Chinese who sampled Falun Gong in recent years, usually to see if it would improve their health and spirits, say that beyond the purchase of books, they were never asked to hand over large sums of money to the group. While differing loyalties to Falun Gong sometimes caused bitter divisions within families, followers were not asked to cut all normal social bonds. Nor, in contrast to the more notorious cults, was it difficult to leave the group.
The reported deaths of believers who refused medical treatment pose a far more complex issue than the official victim counts would have it, especially in a country where many people believe that cosmic forces influence health and rely on traditional treatments not always supported by modern medicine.
On Saturday the national Parliament, laying one of the final planks for coming show trials, adopted a stringent anticult law that was tailored expressly for prosecution of Falun Gong leaders.
The next day, in a step being strangely touted as progress toward the "rule of law," prosecutors charged four reputed ringleaders with major crimes under that new law -- for actions supposedly taken months before it was adopted. Other indictments of lesser leaders around the country have also been reported.
In China's long history of authoritarian government, the danger to rulers from emerging national organizations has been repeatedly demonstrated, said Mr. Zhao, the political scientist from Colby.
The lesson was not lost on Mao Zedong, Mr. Zhao noted. During his Cultural Revolution of 1966-1976, for example, Mao sent in army troops to disperse the Red Guards he had created as soon as local groups began to coalesce into broader entities. And in the 1950's, religious sects and secret societies were brutally crushed by Communist authorities undoubtedly mindful of how mystical movements like the Taiping rebels and the Boxers disrupted the country in imperial times.
Today, with rising unemployment, anger over official corruption and a slowdown in economic growth, the government feels insecure and vulnerable, many experts say. The authorities also worry about the long-term effect of new communications technologies -- skillfully wielded by Falun Gong and democracy advocates -- on the party's ability to monopolize power and public discourse.
Party leaders are only beginning to hint in public about the possible extent of their Falun Gong problem. Until this week, official statements about the crackdown stressed that while a small number of top leaders would be harshly punished, other adherents would simply need education about how they had been duped.
But an article Monday in People's Daily described for the first time the likelihood of "long-term resistance." Beyond the top leaders, it said, "second and third tiers" of leaders have been created.
"In a few areas, illegal meetings are still being held," the article said, the only clue for Chinese readers of the continuing subterranean struggle.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); COMMUNIST PARTY (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNIST PARTY (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); TAOISTS & TAOISM (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); WOMEN (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: LI HONGZHI (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



75 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Ayatollah Rebukes Iran Liberals and U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Iran, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Iran's supreme religious leader today marked the 20th anniversary of the seizure of the American Embassy here with a fiery speech denouncing Iranian reformers who have called for reconciliation with the United States as "either simpletons or traitors."
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the conservative Muslim cleric who wields paramount religious and political power in Iran, appeared to slam the door on any easing of tensions between the two countries. 
 At the same time, he appeared to open a potentially explosive chapter in a bitter power struggle between conservatives and reformers within the ruling clergy, one in which conflicting attitudes toward the United States will be as much a battlefield as demands for more democracy and human rights.
For nearly an hour Ayatollah Khamenei -- before a student audience that interrupted with cries of "Death to America!" and "Death to Israel!" -- kept up an anti-American diatribe that was stunning in its virulence. As though the Islamic Revolution of 1979 had occurred only yesterday, he depicted the United States as a country dedicated to subordinating and exploiting Iran and suppressing the Islamic beliefs of its people.
"It is very clear today that America has no other fate in mind for us today than before the revolution, that of submission, and obviously we will fight that," he said.
But even worse, he said, summoning up the specter of a treacherous fifth column within Iran, was that "a small but active minority" of clergy, secular politicians and journalists, people for whom "the dictates of Islam are not important," was working for the United States against Iran's interests.
Those people, Ayatollah Khamenei said, even suggested that the 20th anniversary of the embassy takeover, to be marked on Thursday with an officially organized demonstration in front of the former embassy compound in central Tehran, be changed from its traditional format of banner-waving, slogan-shouting hostility to something less confrontational. That appeared to be a reference, in part, to the main student group at the University of Tehran.
"Some people are even trying to convert 'The Day of Confronting Global Arrogance' " -- the celebration's formal title -- "into a day of softness toward America," Ayatollah Khamenei said. "I can only say they are either simpletons or traitors."
Since a presidential election 30 months ago that was won by Mohammad Khatami, a high-ranking, reform-minded cleric who reached out to the United States with a call for "a dialogue of civilizations," the governments in Tehran and Washington have maintained a frequent exchange of public messages, each speaking of its interest in opening contacts while setting conditions the other side has rejected. Meanwhile, both governments have encouraged a resumption of unofficial contacts.
But Ayatollah Khamenei's speech gave an ominous twist to the internal debate in Iran. Without mentioning President Khatami, whose powers are mostly subordinate to his own, Mr. Khamenei appeared to invite a showdown, one that many Iranians fear could stretch tensions to the breaking point.
In recent weeks conservatives have appeared to be looking for any opportunity to crack down on the reformers, in an attempt to gain advantage ahead of key parliamentary elections in February in which the reformers are widely expected to win a majority.
At the worst, reformers worry that popular frustrations on a wide range of issues -- mainly those dealing with political repression and the battered state of Iran's economy -- could touch off fresh outbreaks of violence, of the kind that erupted when the police and armed Islamic vigilantes cracked down on proreform students in July.
In turn, the reformers fear, conservatives could use public disorder as an excuse to cancel the elections, or to disqualify large numbers of reform candidates.
In his remarks today, Ayatollah Khamenei adopted what amounted to a time-tested revolutionary tactic, of setting a litmus test that could be used to identity and eliminate opponents. In effect, he put reformers on notice that further advocacy of improved ties with Washington would be regarded as un-Islamic and treasonable, terms that have been used since the revolution to justify severe punishments.
While many Iranians seem exhausted with the drumbeat of anti-American polemics, Ayatollah Khamenei insisted that hostility toward the United States should be unremitting.
For "three or four years," he said, senior American officials had been saying they wanted a new relationship with Iran. But he said American intentions had been become clear recently when a "woman official" in Washington -- meaning Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright -- had said Iran would have to abandon its hostility toward the Middle East peace effort as a condition of the United States dropping economic sanctions and other aspects of its "containment" policy.
"Zionists are the main policy makers of America," Ayatollah Khamenei said, "and the problem is that Iran is the biggest and most important center of confrontation with Israel."
Among reformers, the stridency of the ayatollah's remarks were a shock. Although courts that are under the religious leader's control have stepped up prosecutions of reformers in recent months, Ayatollah Khamenei appeared to hold out an olive branch to President Khatami as recently as a month ago. But subsequent actions have persuaded many Iranians that the religious leader may have only been seeking to put the reformers off guard.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A crowd of students cheered Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, who gave a speech condemning the United States and Iranian reformers. The audience interrupted with cries of "Death to America!" (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN (90%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (94%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (54%); 

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



76 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: THE 1999 ELECTIONS: CHARTER REVISION;
Coalition of Democrats Helped Doom Mayor's Charter Plan

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's huge defeat on the City Charter on Tuesday was engineered by a classic, sometimes stealthlike coalition of labor unions, Democratic officials and political clubs that targeted 20 key neighborhoods around the city and then deployed 1,500 people to knock on doors and bring voters to the polls on Nov. 2. Even Mr. Giuliani acknowledged yesterday that his opponents "did a much better job of pulling the vote."
But Mr. Giuliani and his supporters also said the loss did not mean trouble for him in his unannounced United States Senate campaign against Hillary Rodham Clinton, and pointed to a crucial Republican victory in Erie County as far more important to the mayor's political future. 
 Mr. Giuliani went so far as to say that a catastrophic loss for his party in Nassau County was not a problem either, because the county executive, who was not up for re-election, is still a Republican.
The election, the mayor's supporters said, was like losing a Yankees game at the start of the season. Voters rejected 14 proposals to revise the City Charter that the mayor had campaigned for as a referendum on his policies.
"I don't think it'll have any bearing on anything six months from now, much less a year from now," said Mr. Giuliani, who was strikingly cheerful during a news conference yesterday in City Hall Park. "I can look at last night's election and say, from a political point of view, if you had a choice of one of the two things, winning the charter vote, or Erie County going into Republican hands, I can tell you which would be more important politically."
On Tuesday, the Republican candidate for Erie County executive, Joel Giambra, defeated the 12-year Democratic incumbent, Dennis Gorski, in the state's largest Democratic stronghold outside New York City. Mr. Giuliani campaigned last week for Mr. Giambra in an Italian restaurant in Cheektowaga, saying it would be "terrific" to have him in office.
Despite Mr. Giuliani's dismissal of the charter vote, jubilant Democrats at a news conference on the City Hall steps said their coalition was also a training run for the work they planned to do for Mrs. Clinton after her expected announcement in January of her Senate candidacy. Then they eagerly described the extent of operations that they kept quiet to avoid a confrontation with the mayor.
"If this got turned into Rudy versus the unions, we thought the issue would get submerged," said Richard A. Riley, the spokesman for the teachers' union.
Officials from the teachers' union said the group had 1,000 rotating volunteers making telephone calls against the charter changes four nights a week from mid-October until the election. Union officials said members eventually contacted, either by phone or by mailings, all of its 100,000 members who live in New York City.
District Council 37, the municipal union that supported Mr. Giuliani in his 1997 mayoral campaign, also operated phone banks from its offices in Lower Manhattan five days a week during the six weeks prior to the election. Lee Saunders, the union's administrator, said yesterday that the callers reached 90,000 union members but were careful not to publicize their efforts.
"We did not want to show our hand too early," Mr. Saunders said. "We knew that we were going to be outspent."
The Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, which did not get a special productivity wage increase that it sought from the city in its most recent contract, also turned up on the City Hall steps with the groups against the charter revisions. Pat Lynch, the union's president, said that "you cannot change the Constitution in the dark of night" and that "we want a say in how this city is run," adding that "we're here, and we're not going away."
Labor unions particularly disliked two important changes in the charter revisions: one requiring a two-thirds vote of the City Council to approve certain tax increases and another imposing a cap on city spending tied to the rate of inflation. Labor officials said yesterday that the proposals would have made it harder for the city to raise money and therefore could have led to layoffs or at least made it more difficult for union members to get raises.
Another important group in the coalition was Vote No on Charter Inc., an advocacy group led by Richard Schrader, who is on leave until next Monday as the chief of public affairs to Mark Green, the city's public advocate, whose five years of quarrels with the mayor led to the proposed charter revisions in the first place.
(Under the original charter proposals, Mr. Green would not have automatically succeeded the mayor, as is now law, if the mayor won the Senate race and left office a year early. Critics attacked the proposal as a political vendetta by Mr. Giuliani against Mr. Green, and the mayor's Charter Revision Commission eventually withdrew it.)
Mr. Schrader said yesterday that his group selected 20 neighborhoods, from the Upper West Side in Manhattan to Park Slope in Brooklyn to Riverdale in the Bronx, where volunteers and Democratic club members stuffed mailboxes and knocked on doors during the six weekends prior to Nov. 2.
On Election Day, Mr. Schrader said, volunteers in each neighborhood knocked on doors from 5:30 to 8:30 p.m. and drove people to the polls on a rainy, blustery evening when turnout was only 11 percent of New York City's 3.4 million registered voters.
Mr. Schrader also said he thought that an expensive telemarketing campaign of prerecorded phone calls from Mr. Giuliani, urging voters to approve the charter changes, backfired, in large part because many calls were made to traditionally Democratic voters who intensely dislike the mayor. "We had 10 or 12 voters who said, 'I just got a call from Giuliani -- I don't want to hear from him,' " Mr. Schrader said. "I thought he wandered into the lion's den and pulled out some adversarial votes."
Mr. Giuliani conceded as much yesterday. "When you make telephone calls, sometimes you make them to the right places, and sometimes you make them to the wrong places," the mayor said, adding that "the only solace in the election of yesterday is that when you lose 75-25, a few phone calls to the wrong place wasn't the reason you lost."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officials and members of a coalition that helped to defeat City Charter revisions gathered yesterday on the City Hall steps. From left, H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller; Lee Saunders of District Council 37; C. Virginia Fields, the Manhattan borough president; and Mark Green, the city's public advocate. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); CITIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



77 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Spending Limits Set in '97 Now Are Largely Ignored

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
As Congress and the Clinton administration head into the final stages of their negotiations over the federal budget, both sides say they are determined to avoid spending any portion of the money that flows to the government through the Social Security system.
Neither side, however, is saying much about another benchmark for fiscal restraint, the spending limits that became law as part of the 1997 bipartisan budget deal. 
 Without any announcement, or a specific vote to do so, the Republican-controlled Congress has shattered those caps this year in all but the most technical sense, voting to spend at least $23 billion more than the $580 billion limit for the fiscal year that started Oct. 1. It is the second year in a row that Congress has exceeded the limits, and like last year the White House has gone along. For all practical purposes, the caps are dead.
In shunting the caps aside, the two parties are to some extent confirming what some budget analysts contended all along: that the caps as set in 1997 were a sham from the start. Under that view, the limits were too low to be sustained and were nothing more than an effort to put off dealing with the political pain that both sides assumed would be necessary to bring the budget into balance.
"The caps set in 1997 for '99 and later years were unrealistic at the time they were set and certainly have become unrealistic since then," said James Horney, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning research organization. "They probably became less realistic both because with surpluses it's harder for people to talk about cutting spending and because there was a bipartisan consensus this year to keep defense spending at the same level or increase it."
Indeed, the caps are the product of a time when no one expected the nation's fiscal health to improve as rapidly as it has. There is clearly a case to be made that there is more room for spending now than anyone anticipated in 1997, when no one in either party could foresee that the budget deficit would be wiped out so quickly and that Washington would be consumed by a debate over what to do with huge and growing surpluses.
"In Washington, caps have been hard to meet," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican majority leader, "and while they haven't been met, to be perfectly candid, they have provided some pressure and some resistance to out-of-control spending. I think they served a positive purpose, but like any law, any budget agreement, two, three years down the road, circumstances change."
In effect, Washington has now substituted a new standard of fiscal responsibility: the looser goal of not spending surplus Social Security money. Only through budget gamesmanship can either party claim to be meeting even that new standard this year, with the Congressional Budget Office estimating that the spending bills as passed by both chambers would dip into Social Security to the tune of $17 billion.
But neither party has been willing to acknowledge the obvious and call for the caps to be increased or abolished before they expire in 2002, fearing with some reason that the other side would immediately lob charges of fiscal irresponsibility. And in hanging on to the fiction that they are living within the caps by employing all manner of legerdemain, they are arguably undermining the credibility of the entire federal budget.
"It's been death by gimmick to the budget caps," said Robert L. Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a research group that advocates fiscal restraint. "Even those of us on the fiscal conservative side think it would be better to adjust them to more realistic levels than to have a dishonest budget."
Barring an increase in the spending limits or their repeal, the problem will only get worse. The caps for the next two years are even lower than for this year. They would fall to $575 billion next year and $569 billion the following year.
The limits apply to the one-third of the $1.8 trillion federal budget known as discretionary spending, the part that has to be appropriated annually and encompasses everything from the military to Head Start. (The rest of the budget consists of mandatory spending on longstanding commitments like Social Security plus interest payments on the debt.)
The limits were applied starting in 1990, when Congress and the Bush administration agreed on the first major effort to reduce the deficit. For most of the time since then, they functioned just as they were intended to. The question before Congress each year was not how much it should spend, but how it should divide up a defined pot of money.
Between 1991 and 1998, according to the Concord Coalition, discretionary outlays increased only about 4 percent, or $20 billion, to $555 billion.
But last year a combination of factors led the two parties break their pattern of restraint.
The deficit was erased, as long as Social Security money was included in the government's revenues, and it became clear that the budget could be balanced within a few years even without Social Security money. Both parties displayed a pent-up demand for spending, with aid to farmers, increased spending on education and a renewed commitment to Pentagon programs heading the list.
Under the law, Congress and the administration must remain within the caps or the White House must enact across-the-board cuts to bring spending back into line -- a politically unappealing step. So last year they exploited a loophole intended to deal with wars or natural disasters: they designated $20 billion in outlays as "emergency" spending that is not technically subject to the limits.
They have employed the same technique this year. Although many of the bills are likely to change as negotiations between the Republican leadership and the White House continue, the appropriations committees have almost arbitrarily placed $17.5 billion in discretionary spending -- including spare parts for the Pentagon and financing for the 2000 census -- under the emergency umbrella.
They have also used a tactic that compares spending estimates for particular programs from the Congressional Budget Office and the White House's Office of Management and Budget, and then chooses the lower of the two. Doing so has allowed Republicans to claim a "savings" of $16 billion on discretionary programs relative to the official estimates from the Congressional Budget Office.
Together the two techniques bring discretionary spending subject to the caps down from about $603 billion to about $570 billion, $10 billion below the caps.
Hardly anyone in either party defends the gimmicks. They tend instead to suggest that Washington has already succeeded in meeting the spirit of the 1997 pact if not its letter.
"You can hold them up as the ultimate tripwire, as the test of whether Congress did or did not perform," said Senator Larry E. Craig, a Republican from Idaho. "Or you can say they were made obsolete by Congress's performance and the economy's performance. The latter is a much fairer analysis." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



78 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: The Healer of Injured and Ailing Hospitals

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
DR. LUIS R. MARCOS loves the little ironies in life.
Like this one: For the last four years, he has overseen the city's 11 public hospitals, which treated 1.5 million patients last year. But there was a time in his medical career when he didn't even know what I.C.U. stood for. 
 He had immigrated from Spain and was working as an intern at a Long Island hospital in the late 60's. One day, he heard his name echo across the public address system.
"Dr. Marcos! I.C.U! Dr. Marcos! I.C.U!"
He pondered this and decided it was a practical joke. He smiled sheepishly and replied in his thick Seville accent: "I don't see you! I don't see you!"
"In Spain, we had no such abbreviations," he says. "Someone had to explain it to me."
He keeps another of the little ironies on a shelf by his desk. It is a diploma he received in 1972 after his psychiatric residency at Bellevue Hospital. The diploma is signed by Dr. Joseph T. English, the first president of the newly formed Health and Hospitals Corporation, the agency created to save the city's foundering public hospitals.
Yesterday, wearing his trademark wire-rimmed glasses and a bright red tie decorated with ducks, Dr. Marcos dashed across the room to get the diploma and show it to a reporter. "See what history does to you?" he said, laughing.
In the 29 years of public hospital history from Dr. English to the present, the procession of leaders through the corporation has been so swift -- 11 presidents and 3 acting presidents -- that no one has bothered to put up their pictures at the headquarters in Lower Manhattan.
Five presidents lasted just a year. One cleaned out his desk after five months and pointed out that he had been careful not to sell his house in another state when he took the job.
All of which makes Dr. Marcos's tenure -- four years, no big deal at many city agencies -- a cause for celebration in itself within the agency. As of last month, he has survived longer than any other hospitals corporation president.
For three of his four years, through a combination of aggressive layoffs, renegotiated contracts and the help of a healthy economy, the corporation has managed to run modest surpluses.
It has conducted its first consumer satisfaction survey, and it has even begun to advertise on city buses and billboards, a move Dr. Marcos said would have been viewed as "almost psychotic" only a few years ago.
"If the president had proposed that," he said, "he would have been fired, I am sure."
ALL of this good news is not to say that the agency is completely out of the woods -- it still faces an aging infrastructure, mounting numbers of uninsured patients and the advent of cost-cutting managed care for its Medicaid patients. But it has been a while since anyone has called it an "unmitigated disaster" or a "festering bureaucracy," as it once was.
In a rambling conversation yesterday that touched on everything from pipe smoking (Dr. Marcos, 56, has quit) and endurance running (on Sunday, he will compete in the New York City Marathon for the seventh time) to Francisco Franco (his older brother was jailed and then exiled for making anti-Franco speeches), Dr. Marcos recalled that he came close to turning down Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani when he asked him to take over the corporation.
Before becoming the city's Commissioner of Mental Health in 1992, he had been a senior vice president at the hospitals corporation and the head of its office of mental health and substance abuse. From his fourth-floor office, he said: "I could hear the shouting above me in the president's office on the fifth floor. So I knew."
"But there's a part of me that likes adventure," he explained, sitting in the same spacious office where all that shouting took place. "I think most immigrants are a little like that. I mean, I took a big chance when I came to America, right?"
In fact, he did. When Luis Rojas Marcos, the son of a concrete-factory owner, decided to come to New York after graduating from Seville University Medical School, he knew no one in the city, except his first wife, who immigrated with him.
His father, a Franco supporter and a conservative Roman Catholic, was angrily opposed to his son's leaving. "He couldn't understand why anyone would want to leave Spain for anything. God was there and all the answers were there."
For years, Dr. Marcos said, he believed he had decided to leave Spain solely to become a better psychiatrist. In later years, after many hours of couch time spent in psychoanalytic training, he realized he had also left because Franco's dictatorship was ripping his family -- and him -- apart.
"It was hard for me to take sides. My temperament is one of compromise. You can convince me of almost -- not everything because that's going too far. But I'm the type that if you talk to me and express your views on something, chances are I will be able to see your side."
"But," he added, "you pay a price for that sometimes. Your body cannot take it, or even your mind. I used to suffer from terrible stomach pains all the time."
While that kind of personality always put him in a difficult position back home, it has usually served him well in a tumultuous hospital system and has helped him win compromises from an often uncompromising mayor.
"There are hundreds of ways to undermine the president of this corporation," he said. "Hundreds. And there's no way of surviving this place if the people don't believe in you."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Luis R. Marcos, the president of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOSPITALS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: LUIS ROJAS MARCOS (94%); FRANCISCO FRANCO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



79 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
African Is Among 4 Named Trade Group Deputy Chiefs

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: GENEVA, Nov. 3

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization's director general, Mike Moore, named four new deputies today, including the first African to hold such a high-level post, to help him run the 134-nation trade regulatory group.
Those selected were a former trade minister of Burkina Faso, Ablasse Ouedraogo, plus Andrew L. Stoler of the United States, Paul-Henri Ravier of France and Miguel Rodriguez Mendoza of Venezuela. Mr. Stoler has been deputy chief of the United States trade mission here since 1989; Mr. Ravier is a 20-year veteran of the French trade department, and Mr. Mendoza was chief trade adviser at the Organization of American States and his country's trade minister from 1991 to 1994. 
 The announcement, expected for some time, had been delayed by the large number of candidates and by efforts to attain regional balance, with at least one representative of the least-developed countries in a leadership post. In a statement today, Mr. Moore called the decision "an extremely tough call, given all the very good people who were nominated by their governments."
The choices were complicated by Mr. Moore's unusual tenure as chief -- a split term. He is to be succeeded in three years' time by Supachai Panitchpakdi, a Thai deputy prime minister, who had to be consulted on the timing of the appointments. It was agreed that the four deputies would serve for one month after Mr. Moore's incumbency ends on Aug. 31, 2002, to permit a smooth transition.
The main difficulty Mr. Moore faced in making the choices was satisfying the trade forum's fractured constituencies, whose ability to get along has been frayed during contentious talks leading to the start on Nov. 30 of a new round of international trade negotiations in Seattle.
Resentment among developing countries has been expressed in preparatory meetings, with many delegates insisting that they have more of a say in running the trade forum. Mr. Moore, a New Zealander, has committed himself to integrating emerging economies into the workings of the organization. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); BURKINA FASO (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (57%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (57%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); BURKINA FASO (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: RAVIER, PAUL-HENRI; OUEDRAOGO, ABLASSE; STOLER, ANDREW L; MENDOZA, RODRIGUEZ MIKE MOORE (93%); PAUL-HENRI RAVIER (70%); ANDREW L STOLER (70%); MIGUEL RODRIGUEZ MENDOZA (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



80 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1828 words

HEADLINE: Investors See Room for Profit In the Demand for Education

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
When Arthur Levine, president of Teachers College at Columbia University, met last year with Michael Milken, the "fallen junk bond king turned education entrepreneur," it was more than a case of the old school meeting the new.
"The message was, 'You guys are in trouble and we're going to eat your lunch,' " Dr. Levine said, recalling what he considered not a direct threat but a kind of predatory challenge. 
 Mr. Milken, whose Knowledge Universe companies range from preschool to corporate training, is not the only one who is hungry. Businessmen like Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft, and Lamar Alexander, the former presidential hopeful and former governor of Tennessee, are flocking to education, bringing with them a flood of dollars. They say they will turn the $700 billion education sector into "the next health care" -- that is, transform large portions of a fragmented, cottage industry of independent, nonprofit institutions into a consolidated, professionally managed, money-making set of businesses that include all levels of education.
While the for-profit education business has been evolving for several years, with the establishment of Christopher C. Whittle's Edison Schools and the University of Phoenix's college for working adults, the transformation is now occurring on a far larger scale. The dissatisfaction with public schools of parents of school-age children and the demands of the economy are fueling a flow of billions of dollars from corporations, pension funds and the general public into for-profit educational ventures.
For-profit companies are setting up law schools and new elementary schools, training factory-floor employees to use computers and taking over the operations of existing junior high and high schools. Their motives, the companies say, are to wring the waste from a system built largely on public largess and nonprofit benevolence, turning it into an efficiently run and profitable machine -- using investors' money instead of tax dollars.
"Changes in education are coming as surely as the Berlin Wall went down," said William F. Weld, the former governor of Massachusetts who is part of a group that has raised $150 million to invest in for-profit education and training and which hopes to raise another $100 million by early next year.
Eight years ago, when he was governor, Mr. Weld encountered stiff opposition to the concept of schools managed by for-profit companies. This month, Edison Schools Inc., the Whittle brainchild that operates 79 new and existing elementary and secondary schools in 16 states, including Massachusetts, hopes to sell $170 million in stock to the public.
"These ideas would not have flown in 1991," Mr. Weld said. "People just couldn't wrap their minds around it. Now we can't put the genie back in the bottle."
Even institutions like New York University and the College Board have formed for-profit subsidiaries to produce and market online courses and other educational services, some of which might be the source of public stock offerings.
In many ways, the race to invest in education marks the triumph of a market mentality that has consumed the nation in the late 20th century. No longer is education, where institutions of learning grew out of religion, the route to spiritual enlightenment. For many students, it is the place to start a business or accelerate their movement up the career ladder.
Wall Street's interest is the result of big societal changes in the past generation. Nearly half of all students in higher education today are over age 25, up from 28 percent in 1970. Many of those students are seeking skills to change careers. Corporations, meanwhile, no longer view training as a cost to minimize but as a competitive advantage to exploit.
As in health care, entrepreneurs assume that they will be able to solve the intractable problems that have baffled government and nonprofit institutions.
"In the business world, we've seen a movement toward the hollowing out of the corporation to cut costs," said Guilbert C. Hentschke, dean of the Rossier School of Education at the University of Southern California. "Now, in a sense, you've got that same process in schools, where districts are entering agreements for outsourcing, contracting for services and chartering new schools."
But analysts warn that as Wall Street rushes in, investors might find that the education business does not open itself to the free market as willingly as did health care, utilities or other industries that operated under longtime government regulations that limited competition.
Where for-profit enterprises have been introduced in education, there is little evidence so far that students are performing better, that high school graduates are getting better jobs or that corporations are teaching skills that benefit the individual as well as the company.
"It's difficult to impossible to determine if a for-profit school is doing a better job than a comparable public school," said Henry M. Levin, a professor of economics and education who heads the National Center for the Study of Privatization in Education at Teachers College.
So far, at least, "private schools and those public schools that are run by for-profit management typically seek students that are not costly to educate," Dr. Levin said. "That's not cheating. They are playing by the rules of the game. They want to do a good job, but they also want to make a profit. But the result is that you can't really compare them with public schools."
In that sense, if for-profit schools wish to expand they will have to take in less capable students and investors might find themselves on the same road as investors in H.M.O.'s several years ago. Those organizations were initially able to cut costs by offering services to groups of relatively healthy people -- employees of big corporations, for example. But as H.M.O.'s began supplementing their growth by recruiting less healthy individuals, costs rose, profitability sank and investors faced big losses.
Companies like Apollo Group, parent of the University of Phoenix, the country's largest private university, have been profiting from education and raising money from the public for several years. In addition, companies like DeVry Inc., ITT Educational Services, Sylvan Learning Systems and General Physics have long offered educational and training services to individuals and corporations, and venture capital investors and companies like Intel and Microsoft have been pouring money into educational start-ups.
Newer investors, however, are viewing a much broader span of learning as potential profit centers. An example is Knowledge Universe, the conglomerate assembled by Mr. Milken. Among its companies are Leapfrog Toys, a maker of reading and language products; Knowledge Learning, a day-care chain; Teacher Universe, which supports the use of technology in the classroom; MindQ Publishing, which develops multimedia learning systems; and Productivity Point International, which offers technology training for corporations.
"Ten years ago this industry did not exist," said Scott L. Soffen, a financial analyst at Legg Mason Wood Walker, an investment firm in Baltimore. The success of some of the early players -- Apollo, DeVry, the Learning Company -- was so exceptional that Wall Street was captivated, Mr. Soffen said. "Nothing attracts interest more than an industry group with momentum on Wall Street."
The opportunity to make money in education certainly looks good. The education and training industry accounts for 10 percent of the United States economy, as measured by gross domestic product, according to "The Book of Knowledge," a report issued last spring by Michael T. Moe, director of global growth research at Merrill Lynch. But education and training account for less than two-tenths of 1 percent of the value of the domestic stock market -- $16 billion out of $10 trillion, so there is plenty of room for growth and for companies to find profits in the education sector. Health care, by comparison, represents 14 percent of G.D.P. and a similar percentage of the value of the United States stock market.
There are plenty of private companies ready to soak up investors' dollars, said Michael R. Sandler, chief executive of EduVentures, an investment and consulting firm in Boston. Roughly $6 billion has been invested in private education companies by venture capital firms and other investors, he said, "an enormous amount of untapped market value."
Edison, the much-publicized effort by Mr. Whittle to build a better public school, is a long way from profitability. In the year ended June 30, the company lost $50.5 million on revenues of $132 million. Since its inception, Edison's losses total $113 million.
By taking on the elementary and secondary school market, Edison was somewhat unusual among for-profit education companies. Most efforts are focused on areas where others have already forged for-profit businesses and where it is likely to be far easier to make money -- the sale of textbooks and school supplies, for example, publication of learning materials, operation of preschools and delivery of classes and test preparation services over the Internet.
Those are the areas where the partnership including Mr. Weld hopes to succeed. The group, known as Leeds Equity Partners III, will be managed by Jeffrey T. Leeds and Robert A. Bernstein, two former investment bankers at Lazard Freres & Company who were among the early investors in Edison Schools. On the group's board of advisers are Thomas F. McLarty 3rd, the former chief of staff for President Clinton, and Lamar Alexander, the former governor of Tennessee.
"We really like the post-secondary part of the education business," Mr. Leeds said. He said he believed that schools providing professional training and certification -- in business, law, psychology, even medicine -- could be operated for-profit. If that training could take place over the Internet, serving students who cannot take time off from work or travel to a central campus, all the better, he said.
Lately, education stocks have badly trailed the market. The best investments have been in companies that offered computer-based training -- companies like CBT Group and Learning Tree International.
If primary and secondary school makes for a tough market, however, the need to constantly upgrade the skills of workers means that the most promising for-profit sectors are those where people need more education, after they have finished high school or college and entered the work force, said Dr. Levine, the president of Teachers College.
"I don't know whether these companies can do a better job of educating people," Dr. Levine said. "But they are the most aggressive and creative actors in higher education today. Some of them have shown they can make a profit. And that means that much of this industry is up for grabs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Arthur Levine, president of Teachers College at Columbia University, said the need of people for schooling beyond high school or college was the most promising sector for companies seeking profits in education. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. A27)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS611110 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (82%); SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (70%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (70%); 

COMPANY: EDISONLEARNING INC (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); GOVERNORS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (75%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (54%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (88%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); PAUL ALLEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



81 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: THE 1999 ELECTIONS: THE ASSEMBLY;
Republicans Maintain Their Solid Majority

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
A healthy economy and foul weather on Election Day allowed Republicans to retain their solid majority in New Jersey's 80 General Assembly races, leaders of both parties said today.
Democrats picked up three seats over all on Tuesday, including the Fourth District seat in Camden and Gloucester counties, where the incumbent Republican, Gerald Luongo, had been dogged by allegations that he was involved in a questionable land deal. In Mercer County, Democrats captured the Hamilton Township mayor's office, which had been held by a Republican for 24 years. A strong Democratic turnout also helped topple two Republicans who held Assembly seats in the 14th District. 
 But Democrats' attempts to turn gun control and health care reform into inflammatory issues did not resonate with many voters, and they failed to recapture the nine seats needed to regain the majority they lost in 1991. Republicans still ended the night with a 45-to-35 advantage in the lower house of the legislature. The split had been 48-32.
Jack Collins, speaker of the Assembly, declared those results a vote of confidence for his leadership. Pat Torpey, campaign director for Republican Assembly candidates, said the electorate also vindicated Republicans for their decision to enact only modest gun control measures and oppose a Democratic plan to mandate smart guns, weapons equipped with electronic devices that prevent them from firing for anyone other than their owners.
"The seats we lost were because of local issues," Mr. Torpey said. "No one lost their seat because of anything they did in Trenton."
Democrats said they were still pleased at their marginal gains. Joseph Doria of Bayonne, the minority leader of the Assembly, said the heavy rain and driving winds that cut power to 38,000 New Jerseyans was "incumbent weather." Indeed, incumbents from both parties ran in 78 races and won 75.
Tom Giblin, chairman of the Democratic State Committee, said New Jersey voters were generally moderate on social issues and usually voted for drastic changes only when they were incensed about economic matters like property taxes, income taxes or high auto insurance rates. In a time of prosperity, he said, it was simply too hard to mobilize the public.
"I never felt that guns would swing people," he said. "People always vote on pocketbook issues. At a time like this, it's almost like the legislature is becoming Congressionalized, where incumbents are difficult to knock out once they're established."
Many analysts say that with the balance of power between the two parties essentially unchanged, the most interesting legislative battles during the next year might be the jousting between the state's three top Republicans: Gov. Christine Todd Whitman and the two men who might run to succeed her, Speaker Collins and Donald T. DiFrancesco, the Senate president. In the days before the legislature took its summer recess in June, Mr. Collins seized the agenda by blocking the smart gun legislation Mr. DiFrancesco had supported and forced Governor Whitman to sign a bill forbidding any girl under 18 from obtaining an abortion without a parent being notified.
When the new legislative session begins in January, lawmakers are likely to consider school financing. They must also find a way to finance the state's Transportation Trust Fund, which finances road projects, and could consider raising the state's gasoline tax to do it. Because any Republican gubernatorial primary would most likely be dominated by conservative voters, the legislature could also consider bills regarding several social issues, including further restrictions on abortion and a proposal to mandate that all public school students recite a passage from the Declaration of Independence at the start of each school day.
"I think what you'll start to see is a lot of the shifting political agendas and competing ideas," said Cliff Zukin, a professor of political science at Rutgers. "At a time like this, you would expect to see Republicans pulling in different directions." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ASSEMBLY (90%); REPUBLICAN ASSEMBLY (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ASSEMBLY (90%); REPUBLICAN ASSEMBLY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEATHER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FIREARMS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MAYORS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GUN CONTROL (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (69%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (67%); PROPERTY TAX (61%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (54%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: JACK COLLINS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



82 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. Accuses Seven Utilities Of Violating Clean-Air Law
The federal government sued seven electric companies in the Midwest and South, accusing the utilities of defying anti-pollution regulations and illegally contaminating the air breathed by millions of Americans.
The defendants are American Electric Power, Cinergy, FirstEnergy, Illinois Power, Southern Indiana Gas and Electric, Southern, Tampa Electric. The government accused them of modernizing their generating plants without modernizing their pollution controls as required by the Clean Air Act. Page A1. 

Technology Shares Propel Market
Technology stocks lifted the Nasdaq composite index to a fifth consecutive advance and its first close above the 3,000 mark, gaining 46.88 points, or 1.6 percent, to 3,028.51. The other main gauges edged up, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbing 7.19 points, to 1,354.93, and the Dow Jones industrial average rising 27.22 points, to 10,609.06. C14.
 
Prices of Treasury securities rose slightly, with the yield on the 30-year issue declining to 6.13 percent from 6.14 percent. C13.
 
Tyco to Shift Acquisition Strategy
Tyco International, whose share price has declined in recent weeks over concern about its accounting practices, said that it was likely to refrain from all-stock acquisitions that use pooling-of-interests accounting. The company also said it would buy back up to 20 million of its shares, which rose $1.50, to $41. C2.
 
CNNfn Names a New President
CNNfn, the financial news cable channel operated by the Cable News Network, named Shelby Coffey III, the former editor of The Los Angeles Times and current executive vice president of ABC News, as its new president. He replaces Lou Dobbs, who was also the on-the-air anchor of "Moneyline" and left in June. C12.
 
Mexican Stocks in a Broad Rally
Investors bought heavily into Mexican stocks, reacting to polls predicting a stable outcome in the nation's first presidential primary election and to signs that Telefonos de Mexico is becoming an important Internet competitor. The benchmark Bolsa index rose 5.73 percent to its highest level in six months. C4.
 
Fed Detects Some Slower Growth
The economy remains strong with some evidence of slower growth, the Federal Reserve said in reporting the results of its latest regional economic survey, known as the beige book. The report suggested that Fed policy makers might not be in a rush to raise interest rates when they meet on Nov. 16. C8.
 
Indonesian Agency Vows Action
The Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency says it is at last prepared to start seizing the assets of politically powerful debtors who have refused to repay loans they owe to the nation's banks. And with a democratically elected government in office giving legitimacy to politically difficult changes, Eko S. Budianto, the head of the agency's asset management division, says the time is right to speed up the sale of assets the agency has accumulated over two years. C4.
 
Fund to Spur Minority Ownership
Broadcasting executives led by Mel Karmazin of CBS and Lowry Mays of Clear Channel Communications announced an investment fund with at least $175 million intended to spur ownership of TV and radio stations by women and members of minority groups. C2.
 
Four Deputies Named at W.T.O.
The World Trade Organization's director general named four new deputies to help him run the 134-nation trade regulatory group. C4.
 
Two Initial Offerings Rise Sharply
The initial public offerings of Thomson Multimedia, the French maker of RCA televisions, and Be Free, an American provider of Internet marketing services for online merchants, were strong performers. Thomson Multimedia, which began trading in Paris, rose 35 percent, to 29.02 euros, or $30.53. Thomson Multimedia's American depository receipts jumped 45 percent, to $32.75. C8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,609.06, up 27.22
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.13%, down 0.01
The euro -- $1.049, down 0.003
The dollar -- 104.95, up 0.83
 
Graph tracks share price of Tyco International, since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (90%); FE (NYSE) (58%); TYC (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (55%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (90%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%); FIRSTENERGY CORP (58%); SOUTHERN INDIANA GAS & ELECTRIC CO (58%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (55%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); TAMPA, FL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); AIR QUALITY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ASSET FORFEITURE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



83 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Furor Over Sanctions On Drug Trafficking
Efforts by the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, to soften a bill to expand economic sanctions against drug traffickers and businesses that work with them have ignited a Capitol Hill dispute. A8 

Aftermath of Indian Cyclone
The cyclone that hit India on Friday destroyed much of Paradip, on the Bay of Bengal. State officials estimate that 3,000 people have died. A3
 
Iraq Rejects U.N. Compromise
Iraq's foreign minister said his government would reject any move to suspend sanctions in return for Iraq's cooperation with a new weapons-monitoring program. A5
 
Using Vietnamese P.O.W.'s
A secret American program was created during the Vietnam War to portray enemy prisoners as spies and then send them back to North Vietnam, where they would face possible execution, a book says. A8
 
Iran Cleric Rebukes Liberals
Iran's supreme religious leader commemorated the 20th anniversary of the seizure of the American Embassy with a speech denouncing advocates of reconciliation. A10
 
China Seizes Press Credentials
The police took accreditation cards and residence permits from Western reporters after questioning them about a clandestine Falun Gong news conference they attended. A10
 
Slave Labor Meeting Postponed
Germans and Americans negotiating the compensation for Nazi-era slave labor abandoned plans to meet this month in Bonn, reflecting the unwillingness of German companies and the German government to increase an offer of $3.3 billion. A12
 
Mexican Bishop Resigns
Bishop Samuel Ruiz Garcia, who championed the cause of the Indians in Chiapas state and tried to make peace between the government and Zapatista rebels, turned 75 and offered his resignation to the pope. A7
 
Trade Legislation Passes
The Senate approved trade bills intended to energize flagging economies in African and Caribbean nations by opening new markets. A11
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A14-27
 
U.S. Sues Utilities Over Air Pollution
The federal government sued seven giant electric companies in the Midwest and the South, accusing the utilities of defying anti-pollution regulations and illegally contaminating the air of millions of Americans. A1
 
Budget Veto Carried Out
President Clinton vetoed the spending bill containing a nearly 1 percent cut for most agencies, but after speaking with two top Republicans said he would work around the clock to settle the budget standoff. A16
 
Health Care Schemes Cited
Organized criminal groups have infiltrated Medicare and Medicaid and are skimming hundreds of millions of dollars, investigators said. A27
 
Jet Briefly Reversed Its Fall
EgyptAir Flight 990 slowed its steep descent and then climbed more than a mile before plunging once more and apparently breaking up in midair, radar data show. A22
 
Conviction in Gay Man's Death
A Wyoming jury found Aaron J. McKinney guilty of second-degree murder in the killing of Matthew Shepard, left, a gay University of Wyoming student. By also convicting him of kidnapping and robbery, jurors enabled prosecutors to seek the death penalty. A14
 
Deadly Attack in Seattle
A gunman opened fire at a shipyard building, killing two people and wounding two, the police said. A14
 
EDUCATION
 
Making Education Profitable
Businessmen with deep resources are working to transform large portions of the fragmented $700 billion nonprofit education sector into a consolidated, professionally managed, money-making set of businesses. A1
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
When Antibiotics Fail
An outbreak of drug-resistant salmonella infections in 27 people in Denmark, traced to meat from infected pigs, is being described by American scientists as a warning of what can happen unless steps are taken to limit antibiotics in farm animals. A15
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-14
 
New Era Begins in Nassau After Voters Oust G.O.P.
Nassau Democrats began organizing themselves for the task of taking over the county government after voters ended a century of Republican control on Tuesday. A1
 
Talking About Fare Increases
The M.T.A. chairman, E. Virgil Conway, told legislators that transit systems could not be expanded as planned without new sources of money. He termed a 30-cent increase in bus and subway fares by 2004 "modest." B1
 
A Report Card for Crew
The Board of Education issued an evaluation of Chancellor Rudy Crew that was less enthusiastic than past reviews, with unusually detailed recommendations on how he could improve his management style and take a more hands-on approach to running the city's schools. B3
 
Juror Was Recently Convicted
A holdout juror in the mistrial of Andrew Goldstein, who is accused of shoving Kendra Webdale to her death in the subway, was convicted of harassment and resisting arrest three weeks before he became a juror, a fact that probably would have disqualified him. B3
 
CIRCUITS G1-14
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Boom Is Driving Art Auctions
More than $400 million worth of art by Picasso, Monet, van Gogh, Degas and other masters will be offered by Sotheby's and Christie's in two marathon spurts beginning Monday. E1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES B15
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-18
 
Few Millennium Rentals
Manhattan apartment dwellers are mostly failing to realize hopes of renting out their homes for huge sums for the New Year holiday. F1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-26
 
$70 Billion Merger
American Home Products and Warner-Lambert said they had agreed to merge in a deal that would form the world's largest drug company. C1
 
$1.1 Billion Vitamin Settlement
Seven of the world's largest drug companies agreed to pay more than $1.1 billion to settle a class-action claim of an international conspiracy to fix vitamin prices. C1
 
Nasdaq Reaches New Heights
The technology-heavy index again crossed the 3,000 level, but this time it stayed, closing up 46.88 points, at 3,028.51, and underscoring its emergence as home to some of the world's hottest and largest stocks. C1
 
Ex-Publisher's Rebuke
Otis Chandler, the former publisher of The Los Angeles Times and the former chairman of its parent company, expressed dismay over recent missteps by the newspaper's current management. C1
 
New CNN Financial News Chief
CNNfn, the financial news cable channel, named as its president Shelby Coffey 3rd, the former editor of The Los Angeles Times and now executive vice president of ABC News. C12
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A28-29
 
Editorials: A challenge to Yugoslavia; charter reform ; the Shepard case; wise advice on Bell Atlantic.
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E11
TV Listings E12
Crossword E6
Weather B14
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); INDIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); VIET NAM (92%); GERMANY (91%); MEXICO (79%); CHINA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (91%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: BONN, GERMANY (55%); 

COMPANY: EGYPTAIR HOLDING CO (50%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); INDIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); VIET NAM (92%); GERMANY (91%); MEXICO (79%); CHINA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); MIDWEST USA (79%); BONN, GERMANY (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); VETO (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (79%); SLAVERY (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); CULTS & SECTS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); VIETNAM WAR (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); APPROVALS (71%); MEDICAID (71%); MEDICARE (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); RELIGION (67%); JURY TRIALS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); HOMICIDE (66%); MURDER (66%); ACCREDITATION (66%); AIR POLLUTION (66%); RESIGNATIONS (64%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); VERDICTS (60%); 

PERSON: RICHARD SHELBY (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



84 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Two U.S. Drug Giants Planning to Merge in a $70 Billion Deal

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW and LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
American Home Products and Warner-Lambert said early today that they had agreed to merge in a deal that would form the world's largest drug company.
The deal, valued at about $70 billion, would combine some of the world's best-known brands, including Warner-Lambert's Listerine mouthwash and American Home's Advil painkiller, and two New Jersey-based companies situated less than 10 miles from each other.
The new company, to be named AmericanWarner, would be based in Madison, N.J., the headquarters of American Home Products, and have a market capitalization of about $140 billion. 
 The boards of each company met last night and approved the deal.
AmericanWarner would have $23.7 billion in total sales and would have an enormous presence in consumer brands and agricultural products as well as prescription drugs.
With $13.8 billion in worldwide prescription sales, AmericanWarner would be the biggest company in its industry. Its nearest competitors -- Novartis, Astra/Zeneca and Merck -- each have about $11 billion in worldwide sales in a sector so fragmented that its leaders have single-digit percentile shares of the market, according to I.M.S. Health, an industry consultant.
After the merger, AmericanWarner would have 5.5 percent of the world prescription drug market, compared with Astra/Zeneca's 4.2 percent, I.M.S. said.
Analysts insist that AmericanWarner's size would be an advantage. The combined company's research and development expenses last year totaled $2.5 billion, compared with just $877 million at Warner-Lambert. By comparison, Merck spent $1.8 billion.
"It is unlikely that there will be any significant antitrust issues with the merger," said Viren Mehta of Mehta Partners.
"There is very little obvious overlap in the products the two companies make," Mr. Mehta added. "The only noticeable problem is the sizable gap that would exist between the world's top drug maker and its nearest competitor."
If the deal is completed, the company would be a combination of equals. Investors in both companies would trade in their stock for shares in AmericanWarner, which is to be divided evenly between American Home and Warner-Lambert. The companies would each get 10 members on AmericanWarner's 20-member board.
Last year, American Home Products announced two huge mergers -- first with the British drug maker SmithKline Beecham and later with Monsanto -- that subsequently fell apart, primarily over who would run the combined company.
Executives at American Home and Warner-Lambert have been talking about a combination for several months, said one person close to the companies.
It is believed that American Home officials had approached Warner-Lambert as early as last year, but Warner-Lambert was not eager to merge until Lodewijk J. R. de Vink, Warner-Lambert's chairman, assumed control of the company in May.
Executive egos are unlikely to derail this deal, however. The companies said that John R. Stafford, the 62-year-old chairman and chief executive of American Home Products, would become chairman of AmericanWarner, but only for 18 months. He would then be succeeded by Mr. de Vink, who is to serve as the chief executive of AmericanWarner. Mr. de Vink is 54 years old.
Mr. Stafford has strong opinions as to how the executive office should be structured. One person close to the negotiations said that Mr. Stafford had insisted that AmericanWarner have no mandatory retirement age for its chairman or chief executive, a policy that is in place now at American Home Products.
A spokesman for American Home Products declined to comment on the management structure.
Analysts said yesterday that they still expect American Home to continue its plan to sell its troubled agricultural division, allowing the newly merged company to concentrate on its core prescription drug business.
Analysts also said yesterday that they were surprised at how quickly American Home Products has moved to correct its bad fortune.
Aside from American Home's two ill-fated mergers, the company had several product calamities, including a $54 million settlement over its Norplant contraception device and a $3.75 billion payout to settle claims over the fen-phen diet pill combination.
The product disasters had caused shares of American Home Products to tumble 45 percent from its 52-week high of $70.25 on April 13 to $38.50 on Sept. 9.
Analysts said yesterday that American Home executives feared the company could become prey to hostile competitors, notably Novartis, which has a sizable agricultural and consumer division, or Glaxo Wellcome, a company analysts believe is looking for a deal.
Investors reacted giddily to the possibility of an all-American merger. Shares of American Home Products jumped 11 percent, or $5.625 yesterday, to $56. Warner-Lambert's stock also rose $5.625, to $83.8125.
Most analysts believe the merger, the discussions of which were reported yesterday in The Wall Street Journal, was necessary. In the last few years, the pharmaceutical industry has become so competitive that companies can hardly afford to not have blockbuster drugs on pharmacy shelves or others in their production pipelines.
Though Warner-Lambert has been one of the drug industry's hottest performers -- routinely reporting quarterly earnings gains of more than 30 percent -- analysts were concerned that its pipeline lacked the depth of those of some competitors.
AmericanWarner would have a strong presence in several drug categories. Sales of Lipitor, Warner-Lambert's cholesterol reduction drug, should near $5 billion next year, according to analysts, while American Home Products' Effexor antidepressant line and Premarin hormone replacement are projected to each top $1 billion in sales in 2000.
"Certainly, we like the deal between American Home Products and Warner-Lambert," said Neil Sweig, an analyst with Ryan, Beck & Company, said before the companies announced the merger. "It's not a done deal by any means. But it has some positives. Warner-Lambert is not so dependent on Lipitor and American Home has a good drug pipeline."
Both companies have potential top selling drugs under development. American Home Products is developing two vaccines -- one for flu and one for pediatric pneumonia -- that analysts project to notch sales of more than $250 million. Warner-Lambert is developing a treatment for neuropathic pain that could sell more than $600 million. All three drugs are expected to be released within the next two years.
Aside from a bounty of new products, the merger is expected to create $1 billion in synergies, according to people close to the negotiations. One target may be the two companies' home operations, which employ some 6,700 people in New Jersey alone.
Analysts could not project how many jobs could be eliminated, although some duplication could result in virtually all of the new company's prime businesses.
Even though some analysts were cautious that the deal could still fall through, others believed it would succeed and pointed to how well the two companies' chief executives appeared to be getting along.
Mr. Stafford has a reputation for being one of the industry's most aggressive bosses, to the point of throwing the occasional elbow on the company basketball court, according to a colleague.
But Mr. de Vink, while confident, does not need to be in the limelight, analysts said, making him the perfect executive-office companion to Mr. Stafford.
"It's going to be hard for an outside company to break this deal up," Mr. Mehta said. "Few management teams fit as neatly together as this one."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John R. Stafford, the chief executive and chairman of American Home Products. (Associated Press)
 
Charts: "Comparing the Drug Makers"
American Home Products makes a wider array of prescription drugs than Warner-Lambert, but Warner-Lambert's Lipitor is more successful than any of American Home Products' drugs. Here are each company's leading prescription drugs.
 
AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS
 
Premarin
Primary use -- Hormone replacement
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $1,210
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $1,305
 
Effexor line
Primary use -- Antidepressant
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $790
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $1,050
 
Prempro line
Primary use -- Hormone replacement
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $695
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $825
 
Triphasil line
Primary use -- Oral contraceptive
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $420
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $470
 
Enbrel (new)
Primary use -- Antiarthritic
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $365
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $500
 
Zosyn
Primary use -- Antibiotic
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $275
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $320
 
Ziac
Primary use -- Treating hypertension
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $265
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $225
 
Ativan
Primary use -- Treating anxiety
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $255
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $220
 
Zoton
Primary use -- Gastrointestinal
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $210
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $230
 
Cordarone
Primary use -- Treating arrhythmia
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $195
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $150
 
WARNER-LAMBERT
 
Lipitor
Primary use -- Cholesterol reduction
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $3,460
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $4,710
 
Neurontin
Primary use -- Epilepsy
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $790
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $95
 
Rezulin
Primary use -- Treating diabetes
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $670
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $590
 
Viracept
Primary use -- HIV/AIDS
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $610
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $670
 
Accupril
Primary use -- Treating hypertension
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $500
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $550
 
Dilantin
Primary use -- Epilepsy
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $255
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $225
 
Omnicef
Primary use -- Antibiotic
Est. 1999 sales (millions) -- $65
Proj. 2000 sales (millions) -- $100
 
(Source: Ryan, Beck)(pg. C10)
 
"Consumer Products Giants"
Prescription drugs are a large component of American Home Products and Warner-Lambert businesses, but they also make a number of well-known consumer product brands.
 
AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS
HEADQUARTERS -- Madison, N.J.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- John R. Stafford
EMPLOYEES -- 53,000
MARKET CAPITALIZATION -- $73.17 billion
1998 NET INCOME -- $2.47 billion
1998 REVENUES -- $13.46 billion
REVENUE BREAKDOWN --
 Pharmaceuticals -- 66.1%
 Consumer healthcare -- 16.2%
 Agricultural products -- 16.3%
 Other -- 1.4%
 
SELECTED PRODUCTS, BY DIVISION
 
Pharmaceuticals -- Includes Alesse, Sonata, Serax, Enbrel and Lodine
Consumer health care -- Includes Advil, Anacin, Robitussin, Centrum, Anbesol, Denorex, Chap Stick, Preparation H
Agricultural products -- Includes Arsenal, Assert, Cadre, Acrobat and Amdro
Animal health care -- Includes Bursine, Etogesic
 
WARNER-LAMBERT
HEADQUARTERS -- Morris Plains, N.J.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE -- Lodewijk J.R. de Vink
EMPLOYEES -- $41,000
MARKET CAPITALIZATION -- $71.64 billion
1998 NET INCOME -- $1.25 billion
1998 REVENUES -- $10.21 billion
REVENUE BREAKDOWN --
 Pharmaceuticals -- 54.9%
 Consumer healthcare -- 16.2%
 Confectionery products -- 18.5%
 
SELECTED PRODUCTS, BY DIVISION
 
Pharmaceuticals -- Includes Viracept, Zarontin and Accupril
Consumer health care -- Includes Anusol, Benadryl, Efferdent, E.P.T., Listerine, Neosporin, Rolaids, Sudafed and Zantac 75
Confectionery products -- Halls, Certs, Trident, Bubblicious, Dentyne and Clorets
 
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; company reports)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%); AZN (STO) (92%); AZN (NYSE) (92%); AZN (LSE) (92%); NVS (NYSE) (55%); NOVN (SWX) (55%); MON (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (55%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (51%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS CORP (AHP); WARNER-LAMBERT CO (WLA); AMERICANWARNER PFIZER INC (92%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (92%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (90%); IMS HEALTH INC (55%); NOVARTIS AG (55%); MONSANTO CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS CORP (AHP); WARNER-LAMBERT CO (WLA); AMERICANWARNER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); MERGERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); TOILETRIES MFG (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); APPROVALS (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); AGRICULTURE (54%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



85 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Ex-Publisher Assails Paper In Los Angeles

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
Otis Chandler, the former publisher of The Los Angeles Times and the former chairman of Times Mirror, its parent company, last night offered a sweeping denunciation of the newspaper's current management for its "unrealistic and impossible" circulation goals, its "unbelievably stupid and unprofessional" agreement to share profits with the management of a downtown arena, and its contribution to the decline in morale among the newspaper's staff.
Mr. Chandler made the comments in a letter to the newspaper's staff. In a frank repudiation of the policies of the current publisher, Kathryn M. Downing, and Times Mirror chief executive, Mark H. Willes, Mr. Chandler, an heir of the family that founded the newspaper, wrote, "One cannot successfully run a great newspaper like The Los Angeles Times with executives in the top two positions, both of whom have no newspaper experience at any level." 
 Mr. Chandler resigned from the board of Times Mirror last year after reaching the compulsory retirement age of 70 and has remained largely silent about the company's new direction under Mr. Willes. While Mr. Chandler remains a large stockholder, he has had no day-to-day role in the company in 19 years. Thus his statement was regarded as a powerful piece of symbolism, but its likely effect was unclear.
Reached at an automobile museum he runs in Ventura County, Calif., Mr. Chandler said he would not comment on the letter until he had had a chance to speak to reporters at The Los Angeles Times. The opening sentence of the letter is addressed to "the employees of The Los Angeles Times, particularly of the editorial department because they have been so abused and misused."
The statement came as The Times newsroom was still seething about last week's revelation that the newspaper had entered into an agreement with the new Staples sports center to share the profits of a special Oct. 10 issue of the Times Sunday magazine that was devoted solely to the center.
It came from a man who spent the deacdes of the 1960's and 1970's as publisher, pushing to make The Los Angeles Times a newspaper of national and international stature. In1980, Mr. Chandler bowed out of active management.
In the early 1990's, with the slumping Southern California economy sapping the newspaper's financial vitality, Mr. Chandler -- whose more liberal politics had been an irritant to his conservative cousins -- faded into the background. His fellow heirs' desire for management change and a better financial return resulted in the hiring of Mr. Willes, a General Mills executive, in 1995.
Mr. Chandler concluded his message with a reference to the members of his family who founded and ran The Times, saying: "When I think back and realize the history of this great newspaper under the hands of General Otis, Harry Chandler and my father Norman and succeeding publishers, I realize how fragile and irreplaceable public trust of a newspaper is. The trust and faith in a newspaper by its employees, its readers and the community, is dearer to me than life itself."
Ms. Downing, in an interview conducted shortly before Mr. Chandler's letter was read to the newsroom by the city editor, Bill Boyarsky, said she had not seen a copy of it. Mr. Willes could not be reached.
After taking over as Times Mirror's chief executive, Mr. Willes undertook cutbacks and economies at The Times and the company's other newspapers that resulted in a swift rise of the company's stock price.
The Chandler family, through a series of trusts, still holds a majority of the voting shares in the company.
Mr. Chandler's statement came as it was learned that the Staples Center not only had entered an agreement with the newspaper to share the profits from the magazine but encouraged one of its suppliers to buy advertising.
It is unusual for a newspaper to enter into any financial relationship with an institution that is the subject of continuing coverage.
The role of the arena in selling the advertising has become a bone of contention inside the newspaper, even after Ms. Downing moved last week to quell a fierce protest in the newsroom over the profit-sharing arrangement, apologizing to the staff and saying it reflected her "fundamental misunderstanding" of the role of a publisher.
In an interview last week, Michael Roth, a spokesman for the Staples Center, which is home to the Lakers and Clippers basketball teams and the hockey team the Kings, denied that the center had a role in selling ads in the magazine.
At a meeting attended by 200 staff members on Thursday, Ms. Downing was asked about the ad-selling issue, raised first in an article in the Los Angeles Business Journal, and left the impression among many editors and reporters that she had denied it.
"I think the answer was pretty categorically no," John Lindsay, a managing editor in charge of the magazine. "That's my recollection." But in two letters sent by the center to a subcontractor, Anthony Crane & Equipment, Staples urged that advertising be purchased. One was signed by Tim Leiweke, president of the center.
Copies of the two letters were faxed to The New York Times by Bob Burt, the marketing director of Anthony Crane's parent company in Pittsburgh.
Asked who was soliciting the advertisements, Mr. Burt said, "it was more a joint thing, and mostly the Staples Center." The company did purchase an advertisement.
In a June 11 letter, Kevin B. Murphy, the senior vice president for development of the L.A. Arena Company, wrote, "As an important part of the Staples Center development team, we expect and would appreciate your participation in this magazine by purchase of an advertisement of appropriate size to represent you."
The letter added, "I attach an information sheet with some statistics and rates for advertisements in this issue. A representative of the L.A. Times will be contacting your firm."
A second, similar letter, dated Aug. 24, was signed by Mr. Leiweke.
Told of the Staples letter last night, Ms. Downing said she had told the staff meeting that "to the best of my knowledge, Staples didn't sell any ads." She added: "They didn't. The Los Angeles Times sales force sold the ads for this issue."
Asked how she viewed the letters from the Staples management to its subcontracter, Ms. Downing said, "They are encouraging people to participate; they're not selling people the advertising."
Told of the letters to the crane company yesterday, Mr. Roth, of the Staples Center, said, "I wasn't aware" of them.
Earlier this week, dozens of the newspaper's top journalists, including its entire Washington bureau and bureau chief, demanded that the editor, Michael Parks, assign reporters to write an extensive reconstruction of what transpired in the Staples deal. At first, Mr. Parks refused.
But yesterday, in a meeting with the projects editor Kit Rachlis and several other senior journalists, Mr. Parks said he had changed his mind, according to Mr. Rachlis. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (50%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (50%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TIMES MIRROR CO (TMC); LOS ANGELES TIMES (NEWSPAPER) LOS ANGELES TIMES (94%); GENERAL MILLS INC (50%); STAPLES CENTER (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIMES MIRROR CO (TMC); LOS ANGELES TIMES (NEWSPAPER) STAPLES CENTER (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ETHICS; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); ETHICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); RETIREMENT AGE (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); CONSERVATISM (63%); POLITICS (60%); 

PERSON: CHANDLER, OTIS OTIS CHANDLER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



86 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
DONNA KARAN TO TRIM WORK FORCE, CLOSE SOME STORES

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Donna Karan International will slash 8 percent of its work force, close seven outlet stores and consolidate its women's divisions in its latest reorganization. The New York-based fashion company hopes to save $6 million a year through the reorganization, which was announced late on Tuesday. It will lay off 175 people and integrate its marketing and public relations departments into a single unit. It will also close seven underperforming outlet stores. The company said it was refining the merchandise selection and store format at its outlets in an attempt to return the division to profitability. The company will consolidate its Donna Karan New York and DKNY women's businesses, and Susan Sokol, president of Donna Karan New York, will leave. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DK (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (84%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DONNA KARAN INTERNATIONAL INC (DK) DONNA KARAN INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DONNA KARAN INTERNATIONAL INC (DK)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; FASHIONS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE LAYOFFS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (88%); CLOSINGS (88%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (88%); WOMEN (88%); RETAILERS (85%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (54%); 

PERSON: DONNA KARAN NEW YORK (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



87 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Democrat Wins in a Squeaker Election for Mayor of Philadelphia

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 3

 BODY:
After a harrowing election night vigil in which he finally beat back his opponent by a hairbreadth margin, John F. Street wearily faced his city early this morning and claimed the mayoral prize with a humble plea: "Give us a chance."
Mindful of the historic upset he had barely avoided, Mr. Street, the 56-year-old former president of the City Council, paid tribute to Sam Katz, the Republican challenger who almost won this overwhelmingly Democratic city. 
 "He tested our capacity, our work ethic," said the exhausted mayor-elect, who saw his sizable front-runner's lead dwindle precipitously across months of hard competition.
"We have really earned this victory," Mr. Street said, surveying the election margin of 50.2 percent for himself and 48.5 percent for Mr. Katz -- a difference of fewer than 8,000 votes in about 425,000 cast.
The outcome was not settled until 1:30 this morning when Mr. Katz, having watched Mr. Street's margin in the running tally shrink to 2 points from 15 in little more than an hour, finally ran out of mathematical hope and conceded.
The result spared the Democrats the embarrassment of seeing Mr. Katz elected the first Republican mayor since 1947 in this city that is 4-to-1 Democratic by registration. But the narrow victory was hardly perceived as a mandate for Mr. Street, an insular, old-style precinct politician who must now succeed the ebullient, successful Edward G. Rendell as mayor of the nation's fifth-largest city.
Mr. Street, the second black mayor in the city's history, seemed mindful that the tight result means he will have to work hard to show he deserves the office. Much of the campaign was about school and safety problems that, despite impressive downtown renewal, have seen 150,000 middle- and working-class residents leave the city in the last decade. Beyond that, municipal unions that suffered with the city through fiscally thin years are preparing to bargain hard with the new mayor for larger benefits now that this city of 1.4 million is considered on the rebound.
"I have been in this business a long time," Mr. Street told supporters. "I have not been perfect. I'm just going to ask you to give us a chance."
Mr. Katz, a 49-year-old consultant on the public-private financing of sports stadiums, said, "My opponent learned a lot about himself and this city."
A former Democrat with political ties to the black community, Mr. Katz rarely mentioned he was a Republican. He ran as a supporter of coalition government, private school vouchers and deeper cuts in the city's wage tax.
Mr. Street ran on his record as the ally of Mayor Rendell in bringing the city back from bankruptcy, and as a veteran of 19 years on the City Council and a proven master of the city's Democratic machine.
Vote analyses showed a solid turnout by blacks, who voted better than 90 percent for Mr. Street. Mr. Katz drew strong crossover support from liberal Democrats in the Chestnut Hill and Center City areas while barely failing to get a large enough turnout in Northeast and South Philadelphia to turn the tide.
In this city of 40 percent black residency, race was a dynamic but not an issue in the struggle between Mr. Street and Mr. Katz, who is white. Both men were widely congratulated for avoiding a return to the polarizing politics of a generation ago in the era of Mayor Frank Rizzo. Both candidates, in fact, promised a joint appearance for civic unity eventually regardless of the election result.
Mr. Street, who first came to attention a generation ago as a young firebrand agitator for neighborhood improvement, attributed his victory to a combination of efforts, from union support to clergy's blessings, from ward captains who got out the party vote to President Clinton's personal endorsement at a rally here last Friday. He made open appeals to party loyalty in falling short of the broad-based support enjoyed by the city's first black mayor, W. Wilson Goode, in 1983.
As the Democrats celebrated their narrow escape, Mayor Rendell, not one to be upstaged in any crowd, let it be known in interviews on local television that "there's a decent likelihood" he will be running in the next race for governor of Pennsylvania, after he serves next year as the Democratic national chairman.
"John is going to have to rebuild some coalitions," said Mr. Rendell, who defended the mayor-elect as a gifted though "shy" politician.
The city's two major newspapers had shocked the Street camp by endorsing Mr. Katz, an affable campaigner who basically ran as a businessman with a less plodding vision of the city than Mr. Street.
"It's about experience," Mr. Street doggedly insisted in reaching for the Rendell mantle as he won the Democratic primary and, in the early morning, City Hall itself. "I've made a difference in this city."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: John F. Street, at right in photo at top right, was elected mayor of Philadelphia early yesterday. Mr. Street was joined by Mayor Edward G. Rendell. In Salt Lake City, Ross Anderson, top left, won a nonpartisan campaign for mayor. Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr. of San Francisco, left, faces a runoff with a write-in candidate. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); (Tom Smart for The New York Times); (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAYORS (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); HISTORY (72%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); RACE & RACISM (63%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (62%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: ED RENDELL (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



88 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: A Liberal Democrat Wins in Salt Lake City

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
Within the vast bastion of Republican conservatism around Utah, Ross Anderson struck a blow on Tuesday for liberal Democrats, winning election easily to become the next mayor of Salt Lake City.
A former lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union who had never held public office, Mr. Anderson, 48, won the nonpartisan campaign with 60 percent of the vote, defeating Stuart Reid, a moderate Democrat serving as director of the city's economic development agency under Mayor Deedee Corradini. 
 Mr. Anderson and Mr. Reid were the top finishers among 12 candidates in a primary last month.
"This will do so much to change people's mind-sets about so-called liberalism when people throughout the state see that I'm a competent administrator who can bring people together and solve the serious challenges that face us," Mr. Anderson said yesterday in an interview at his home. "Somehow, they think we're all out there just demonstrating, walking women to abortion clinics and performing same-sex marriages."
For nearly 30 years, Salt Lake City has remained an anomaly in Utah politics, a place where most of the state's Democrats and members of non-Mormon churches reside. They have steadily elected Democrats as mayor since E. J. Garn in 1971. Beyond city limits, virtually all meaningful elected posts are traditionally held by Republicans, a list that currently includes Gov. Michael O. Leavitt, most state legislators and all five members of the state's Congressional delegation.
But Mr. Anderson, who is known as Rocky, is even a slice apart from many other Salt Lake Democrats, an unabashed liberal and political outsider who considers his civil libertarian roots a badge of honor.
Political analysts here said his victory was achieved, in part, through voter discomfort with Mr. Reid as a protege of Ms. Corradini, whose second four-year term has been tainted by her involvement in the Olympic bribery scandal and other personal financial matters. They also said Mr. Anderson benefited from attacks late in the campaign that accused him of having four former wives -- he has two -- and owning two gay nightclubs, which he said he did not. The Reid campaign denied any role in the accusations.
Campaigning for mayor, Mr. Anderson promised to tackle several high-profile issues, not least making sure the city does not get stuck with a bill for the 2002 Winter Olympics. Mr. Reid said he believed the city was adequately protected.
Mr. Anderson also promised to dismiss the police chief, Reuben Ortega, restore morale in the police department and put into effect after-school and job-training programs for young people. Mr. Reid said he would retain Chief Ortega.
As for his nickname, Mr. Anderson said it had no romantic base or political symbolism as a fighter.
"My mother used to tease me about it," he said. "As a kid, I liked to be rocked." MICHAEL JANOFSKY
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: John F. Street, at right in photo at top right, was elected mayor of Philadelphia early yesterday. Mr. Street was joined by Mayor Edward G. Rendell. In Salt Lake City, Ross Anderson, top left, won a nonpartisan campaign for mayor. Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr. of San Francisco, left, faces a runoff with a write-in candidate. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); (Tom Smart for The New York Times); (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (95%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (58%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (58%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UTAH, USA (95%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); OLYMPICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BRIBERY (72%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (67%); MARRIAGE (67%); WINTER SPORTS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); SCANDALS (67%); WINTER OLYMPICS (62%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (52%); ABORTION (52%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL O LEAVITT (58%); ED RENDELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



89 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: President's Visit to Hartford Will Focus on Redevelopment

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 3

 BODY:
President Clinton is expected to announce nearly $200 million in private investments in this slowly rebounding city on Thursday during a tour of inner city areas that have not felt the full effects of the current economic boom. He will also visit Newark on Thursday and Chicago and Hermitage, Ark., on Friday as part of his "new markets" tour.
The private financing for urban projects in Hartford will include $15.3 million from Citigroup and other partners, $15 million from Aetna and $5 million from Phoenix Home Life Mutual Insurance Company, an administration official said. Citigroup's commitment includes $7.4 million for a 70-unit housing project in the city's Frog Hollow area. That project takes advantage of a tax credit offered to businesses to encourage urban redevelopment, a company spokesman said. 
 Urban redevelopment has long been in the works here, and some of the projects that will receive the new commitments have been on the drawing board for years.
"I think the occasion for the President's visit is crystallizing the commitment and willingness of local companies," said Robert W. Fiondella, chairman and chief executive of Phoenix Home Life, which is based in Hartford.
In Hartford, the President will visit El Mercado, an indoor marketplace in the city's Latino business corridor. He will later be joined by Andrew Cuomo, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and the Rev. Jesse Jackson, as well as local business and educational leaders. They will speak at the Artist's Collective, an arts education center.
Richard L. Huber, chairman and chief executive of Aetna, said he had been promoting Hartford as a site for the President's visit. "All these older cities have some fairly serious problems," he said. "I'm glad he's coming to highlight that, and see some of the things we in the business community have done to help break this vicious circle."
In connection with the President's visit, a Housing and Urban Development report will be released describing the disparity between the booming national economy and poorer cities. The report focuses on older, medium size cities in the northeast that lost manufacturing jobs in the 1980's and have not yet recovered.
The President is expected to announce three initiatives by the Housing agency: a $6.2 million loan to support the Cityscape/Learning Corridor project, including several schools and a Boys and Girls Club; a $497,505 grant to the Hartford Housing Authority to fight drugs, and $1.5 million in work-readiness programs, to be shared with four other cities. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (83%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PHOENIX LIFE INSURANCE CO (83%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); HARTFORD HOUSING AUTHORITY (94%); HOUSING&URBAN DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARTFORD HOUSING AUTHORITY (94%); HOUSING&URBAN DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN DEVELOPMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); DRUG POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999



90 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 24; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2221 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

Here is a selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. Ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on page 16.
 
Now Playing
 
* "AMERICAN BEAUTY," starring Kevin Spacey, Annette Bening, Chris Cooper, Wes Bentley and Thora Birch. Written by Alan Ball. Directed by Sam Mendes (R, 116 minutes). With heavenly finesse, Mr. Spacey plays a buttoned-down 42-year-old suburbanite who flips his lid for a teenage cheerleader. And he never gets it back on. The midlife crisis motif is familiar, but the stage director Sam Mendes brings terrific visual flair and dry humor to this barbecuing of the bourgeoisie. All the actors display coolly expert timing, especially Ms. Bening as the antihero's grasping wife. Although the story spreads itself thin among many characters, the film coalesces for a devastating finale (Janet Maslin). 

* "BEING JOHN MALKOVICH," starring John Cusack, Catherine Keener, Cameron Diaz and (of course) John Malkovich. Written by Charlie Kaufman and directed by Spike Jonze (R, 112 minutes). Welcome to the fun house: in this exhilaratingly quirky first feature by a stellar video director, the reigning fears and obsessions of a technology-crazed, voyeuristic culture are given an even wilder workout than they got from "The Truman Show." Mr. Cusack plays a discouraged puppeteer who accidentally finds a way into Mr. Malkovich's mind. While the ordinary science-fiction plot might go downhill after revealing its gimmick, this one's inspired craziness goes on and on. Originality and cleverness abound (Maslin).
 
"THE BEST MAN," starring Taye Diggs, Morris Chestnut, Nia Long and Harold Perrineau. Directed by Malcolm D. Lee (R, 118 minutes). This feel-good ensemble film turns Mr. Diggs into a spectacled but hunky novelist en route to a friend's wedding. There he finds temptation in the form of an old flame and a lot of genial guy talk about the meaning of marriage. No problem here is too complicated to be settled by a good-humored dance scene. Another demonstration that current movies about upscale black characters have much more solid traditional values than ones about catty white teenagers (Maslin).
 
* "BOYS DON'T CRY," starring Hillary Swank and Chloe Sevigny. Directed by Kimberley Pierce (R, 114 minutes). This stunning debut feature tells the strange and resonant story of Brandon Teena, who despite being born Teena Brandon went on to create a charismatic identity as a young man. Brandon's ultimately wrenching tale may sound tabloid-ready, but on screen it turns into Theodore Dreiser's idea of American tragedy. The film makes it hauntingly real and even tenderly romantic, with the astonishing acting needed to make it work. One of the year's best (Maslin).
 
"BRINGING OUT THE DEAD," starring Nicolas Cage and Patricia Arquette. Written by Paul Schrader from a novel by Joe Connelly. Directed by Martin Scorsese (R, 115 minutes). An intense, volatile film full of sorrow and wild, mordant humor. This time it took prop garbage on the streets of Hell's Kitchen to create a sufficiently hellish ambience for another nighttime tour of Manhattan. But Mr. Scorsese has mellowed significantly since his "Taxi Driver" days, and his uneven but impassioned, visually inventive new film is more contemplative than it looks. Mr. Cage gives a fine, soulful performance as a New York ambulance driver haunted by ghosts. Ving Rhames is a major scene-stealer as one of his partners (Maslin).
 
"DOUBLE JEOPARDY," starring Ashley Judd, Tommy Lee Jones and Bruce Greenwood. Directed by Bruce Beresford (R, 106 minutes). In a touristy thriller that roams from the coastline of Washington State to the French Quarter of North Orleans, Ms. Judd plays a woman who is free to kill her husband because she has already gone to prison for the crime (see title). Not even she is beautiful enough to get away with rote acting and a far-fetched plot, but she perks up as her character becomes less of a victim. In this coed homage to "The Fugitive," Mr. Jones is on hand as another weathered sourpuss with a knack for barking orders. Mr. Beresford directs so unremarkably that it takes a line like "I feel like I've grown in the last six years" to signal the passage of time (Maslin).
 
* "EARTH," starring Aamir Khan, Nandita Das, Rahul Khanna and Maia Sethna. Directed by Deepa Mehta (not rated, 99 minutes). It is 1947 and India is about to explode into ethnic violence as British colonial rule ends and the country is partitioned into two nations, mostly Hindu India and mostly Muslim Pakistan. These momentous changes are observed by Lenny (Ms. Sethna), the 8-year-old daughter of a well-to-do Parsi family in Lahore. As Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs slaughter one another in the streets, old friends become deadly enemies. Caught in the middle is Shanta (Ms. Das), Lenny's beautiful Hindu nanny, who has two Muslim suitors. The movie's child's-eye view somewhat mutes its dramatic sweep (Stephen Holden).
 
* "FIGHT CLUB," starring Brad Pitt, Edward Norton and Helena Bonham Carter. Directed by David Fincher (R, 135 minutes). The sardonic, testosterone-fueled science fiction of this grunge parable means to hit raw nerves. Making a tougher but less stomach-turning film than his earlier "Seven," Mr. Fincher taps into the nexus of computer-age malevolent fantasy and attempts to psychoanalyze an entire culture in ways that aren't entirely clear until the film's whammy of a denouement. A reckless but fascinating attempt, expertly acted, to make sense of contemporary frustrations (Maslin).
 
"HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL," starring Geoffrey Rush, Taye Diggs and Peter Gallagher. Directed by William Malone (R, 115 minutes). If the ever vigilant Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, is truly determined to snuff out inflation aborning, then he can do no better than to take sharpened pencil in hand, make his way to the nearest theater showing this film and strike fearlessly until its feeble pulse beats no more. This is a sorry reincarnation of the 1950's William Castle horror film in which an eccentric millionaire played by Vincent Price offered five strangers $10,000 each to spend the night in a spooky old mansion. In the new version, the ante for survival has been raised to $1 million apiece. Even allowing for inflation in the 40 years since the original opened, the reward in 1999 should come to only $57,113.47, according to the Federal Reserve Bank in Minneapolis. But some things have not become devalued over the years -- words like junk, for example. "Hill" was pronounced junk in these pages in 1959. And it is still junk (Lawrence Van Gelder).
 
* "THE LIMEY," starring Terence Stamp and Peter Fonda. Directed by Steven Soderbergh (R, 89 minutes). From a director for whom the quirky stylistic exercise is standard style, this is a handsome throwback to the salad days of its two iconic stars. Mr. Stamp, in a stony, magnetic performance punctuated by flashbacks to his early career, plays an ex-con seeking revenge for the death of his daughter. He becomes the nemesis of Mr. Fonda's slick Hollywood hipster, in another role that's piquantly tailor-made. Mr. Soderbergh resurrects the lean, hard-boiled look of John Boorman's "Point Blank" as he dissects and considers these two tough customers from every conceivable perspective (Maslin).
 
* "LUCIE AUBRAC," starring Carole Bouquet and Daniel Auteuil. Produced, written and directed by Claude Berri (R, 116 minutes). What lifts this taut World War II thriller based on a true story above the ordinary are the impassioned performances of Ms. Bouquet and Mr. Auteuil as Lucie and Raymond, a married couple who are fighters in the French Resistance. When Raymond is arrested by the Nazis and convicted of war crimes, Lucie conceives an outrageously audacious plan for his escape. Ms. Bouquet and Mr. Auteuil are as romantically intense as Bogey and Bergman in "Casablanca," but here the woman is the one who ends up doing the thinking for both of them (Holden).
 
"MUSIC OF THE HEART," starring Meryl Streep, Aidan Quinn, Angela Bassett and Gloria Estefan. Directed by Wes Craven (PG, 110 minutes). Not many of us enjoy being lectured by dressed-down Hollywood stars in gritty classroom situations. But the true story of Roberta Guaspari, a music teacher in East Harlem and a single mother surviving a nasty divorce, has been given a blunt, no-nonsense tone that works. Ms. Streep gives a down-to-earth performance that is sheer award bait. The story is inspirational enough to take Ms. Guaspari from no job prospects to watching her proud students play alongside Itzhak Perlman, Isaac Stern and other violin stars. Not a bad reason for Mr. Craven to have sidelined the claws and hatchets for a while (Maslin).
 
* "PRINCESS MONONOKE," with the voices of Billy Crudup, Claire Danes, Billy Bob Thornton and Minnie Driver. Directed by Hayao Miyazaki (PG-13, 133 minutes). A landmark feat of Japanese animation from the acknowledged master of the genre. This complicated, exotically beautiful epic features gods and demons locked in battle for the future of the forest, and its visions are breathtakingly rendered. But it is the film's stirring use of nature, myth and Japanese history that makes it so special. Worth seeing just for its Forest Spirit, which takes animal form by day and roams the night as a diaphanous, Godzilla-like divinity. The image of plants and flowers springing to life beneath his hooves is ravishingly presented. Despite a superb blend of hand-drawn cels and fluid, computer-generated animation, the film's look is gratifyingly understated (Maslin).
 
"THE STORY OF US," starring Bruce Willis and Michelle Pfeiffer. Directed by Rob Reiner (R, 90 minutes). The first unofficial Jack Lemmon comedy for the baby boom generation. As an ode to the ups and downs of middle-aged marriage, this arthritic suburban story is enough to make single people want to file for divorce. Mr. Willis makes iffy casting in the role of a sensitive father and husband, while Ms. Pfeiffer is not well served by a role that makes her scream so hard that her neck turns red. Together, with the help of noisy friends and acquaintances, these two run through the long history of a marriage with the help of a criminal set of wigs and hairpieces. Small talk turns to matters like home repair jobs and prostate trouble (Maslin).
 
* "THE STRAIGHT STORY," starring Richard Farnsworth and Sissy Spacek. Directed by David Lynch (G, 110 minutes). As the least likely filmmaker on the planet to pull off a G-rated miracle, Mr. Lynch rises to the challenge with exhilarating vigor. It may not sound like much, but this account of an old man making a long trip on a riding lawn mower turns out to be a slow-moving, folksy-looking, deeply spiritual film with the power to hold audiences in thrall. And as Oscar may well note next spring, it would not have been possible without Mr. Farnsworth's terse, no-nonsense honesty at its heart. Mr. Lynch's famously unwholesome imagination crosses a new frontier to explore simple virtues and natural beauty. The result: a supremely improbable triumph (Maslin).
 
"THREE KINGS," starring George Clooney, Mark Wahlberg and Ice Cube. Written and directed by David O. Russell (R, 105 minutes). The prodigiously talented writer-director of "Spanking the Monkey" and "Flirting With Disaster" has made a much more ambitious film, with mixed results. His gimlet-eyed Persian Gulf war film has a "Catch-22" absurdist edge, but it also has an oversupply of visual affectations. Vertiginous music-video camera tricks jazz up the otherwise straightforward story of American soldiers who have larcenous designs on Saddam Hussein's captured gold and then develop conscience pangs about their own roles in Iraq. There are many clever peripheral touches, but there's something tamely conventional at the film's core (Maslin).
 
Film Series
 
"KATHARINE HEPBURN." She was called box-office poison, and even at the height of her career never made her way onto the annual lists of the Top 10 draws. But she won four Academy Awards, more than any other actor, and the American Film Institute recently anointed her the greatest female "movie legend." Her name is Katharine Hepburn, and beginning tomorrow at the American Museum of the Moving Image this durable star will be the subject of a 13-film retrospective ranging across her career. The proceedings begin at 1 p.m. with her screen debut opposite John Barrymore in George Cukor's "Bill of Divorcement" (1932). At 2:30 p.m. comes George Stevens's "Alice Adams," with the actress cast as a social climber from a working-class family. The day's finale, at 4:30 p.m., is Cukor's "Sylvia Scarlett" (1935), with Cary Grant as co-star and Ms. Hepburn cast as a young woman masquerading as a boy. Sunday's attractions are "Stage Door" (1937) at 2 p.m. and "Bringing Up Baby" (1938) at 4 p.m. Admission to the retrospective, through Nov. 21, is $8.50 for adults, $5.50 for people over 65 and students with ID, $4.50 for ages 5 to 18 and free for members and children 4 and younger. Information: (718) 784-0077 (Van Gelder).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Malkovich, really: In "Being John Malkovich," Mr. Malkovich, the actor, makes an appearance. (Associated Press); Practice, practice: Meryl Streep in "Music of the Heart," by Wes Craven, known for horror films. (Kerry Hayes/Miramax Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FILM (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); WRITERS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); MARRIAGE (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); 

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (58%); CAMERON DIAZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



91 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Power's Benefits

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Oct. 31 front-page article "Global Economy Slowly Cuts Use of Fuels Rich in Carbon" did not mention the contribution of nuclear power to the slowing of carbon emissions worldwide. Between 1973 and the present, United States nuclear power plants prevented the emission of about two billion metric tons of carbon. 
 Clearly, nuclear power's ability to generate electricity without carbon dioxide (and other greenhouse gases) emissions will not lead to its increased use unless problems of public acceptance, disposal of high-level radioactive waste and weapons proliferation are resolved.
But we should not discount the contribution of nuclear power to the mitigation of global atmospheric carbon emissions.
 
LAWRENCE N. GROSSMAN
Berkeley, Calif., Nov. 2, 1999
 
The writer is professor emeritus of nuclear engineering at the University of California at Berkeley. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; CARBON DIOXIDE; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POWER PLANTS (72%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (72%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (72%); NUCLEAR WASTE (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (52%); 

PERSON: GROSSMAN, LAWRENCE N (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



92 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Zvi Griliches, 69, an Authority On Analysis of Economic Data

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
Zvi Griliches, who spent part of his youth hiding from the Nazis in his native Lithuania, survived Dachau, taught himself English in seven months at a British internment camp and went on to become one of the world's leading authorities on the statistical analysis of economic data, died yesterday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 69.
The cause was complications from pancreatic cancer, his wife, Diane Asseo Griliches, said. 
 Mr. Griliches (pronounced GRILL-i-kus), who was the Paul M. Warburg Professor of Economics at Harvard University, solved knotty statistical problems with profound policy implications. Prof. Dale Jorgenson, a Harvard colleague and collaborator, said Mr. Griliches's work in the late 1950's showed that publicly financed research and development could produce large benefits for the economy, extending well beyond the individual company or industry that came up with an innovative product or production technique.
In the case of hybrid corn, Mr. Griliches estimated, national income rose by perhaps 40 cents a year for every dollar invested in its research and development. His research developed methods for analyzing the impact of economic factors on the speed with which new technologies spread across the economy.
Other economists, building on Mr. Griliches's techniques, showed that research and development in manufacturing also generated huge economic benefits. In a recent review of Mr. Griliches's work on the impact of research on productivity, Prof. James Heckman of the University of Chicago wrote that the analysis "has stood up to the test of time."
Mr. Griliches helped improve the government's measure of inflation. Consider, as did Mr. Griliches, the case of automobiles. One reason that prices of new cars rise is inflation -- the rise in price over time of cars with identical features. But car prices also rise because new cars offer better features.
To isolate the impact of inflation, Mr. Griliches and colleagues pioneered the use of the technique, called hedonics, for measuring the value to consumers of specific features, like style, size and speed. That way, he could compare the value of new and old cars by comparing the value of their separate features, isolating how much of the rise in price was attributable to inflation alone.
Mr. Griliches influenced the way the government measures prices of products whose quality changes over time, like pharmaceutical drugs, computers and housing. His work therefore influenced the government's measure of inflation, which affects the calculation of tax brackets, Social Security benefits and many other federal expenditures.
Mr. Griliches served on the Boskin Commission, which was appointed by Congress to review possible biases in measures of inflation and reported in 1996 that the government's index overstated inflation by 1.1 percentage points a year.
His research also refuted prevailing arguments about the impact of education on lifetime earnings. Economists observed that students who attended school for more years earned higher income -- about 7 percent more for each additional year of schooling. The question was why.
The straightforward reason was that students who stayed in school longer acquired skills that employers were willing to pay for. But economists also thought that cause-and-effect ran in the opposite direction: students with more skills chose to stay in school longer because they could most effectively take advantage of further schooling. If this was true, encouraging less-skilled students to stay in school longer might not do much to lift their earnings.
Mr. Griliches's work powerfully put this anxiety to rest. By designing careful measures of skills, he was able to show that more schooling would raise wage offers even for less-skilled students who would ordinarily not choose to stay in school longer. His findings buttressed arguments of those who called for government programs to help high school graduates attend college.
Mr. Griliches also helped develop techniques of statistical estimation, including methods for analyzing "panel" data that trace the behavior of many individuals or companies over time. Social scientists could tackle these large data sets only after the 1960's, when powerful computers became widely available.
The common thread through Mr. Griliches's work was the pursuit of accurate measurement. He helped devise techniques for measuring productivity -- output per hour of work -- and the benefits of research and development that spill over from one sector to another. Before Mr. Griliches, economists had trouble identifying the reasons behind the historical increases in productivity.
By devising better measures of the quality of educated and uneducated workers and of the quality of different types of equipment, Mr. Griliches and Mr. Jorgenson, writing together, provided explanations for some of the previously unexplained trends in productivity. Mr. Griliches wrote that his work showed "that education, investment in research and economies of scale were the important sources of productivity growth in the long run."
Prof. Alan Krueger of Princeton said Mr. Griliches was influential because "he got his hands dirty with actual data." In a recent interview, Mr. Griliches said he did not pursue theory for its own sake. "I always started with an important problem and developed whatever statistical tools were needed to provide concrete answers." Those concrete answers, said Prof. Ernst R. Berndt of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, "make Zvi Griliches among the pre-eminent empirical economists of the last half century."
Mr. Griliches was an unlikely candidate to become one of the world's premier economists. Born in Lithuania in 1930, he, his sister and parents were moved to a Jewish ghetto by the Nazis in August 1941. In June 1944, the Nazis sent him and his parents to concentration camps in Germany. His parents died at the camps.
Liberated by Patton's Third Army in May 1945, Mr. Griliches took off for Palestine, where he was captured by the British and sent for seven months to an internment camp on Cyprus, where he taught himself to read English. Because he was an orphan, Mr. Griliches was quickly permitted to enter Palestine, which he did in 1947 at age 17. Two months later the war of independence broke out. He worked on a kibbutz for a year before joining the Israeli Army.
Despite his almost complete lack of formal schooling, he learned enough, with the help of correspondence courses and tutors, to pass the entrance exams to Hebrew University, which he entered in 1950. One year later, he transferred to the agriculture economics program at the University of California at Berkeley, a course of study that Israel encouraged because it was deemed essential to the fledgling country.
Mr. Griliches graduated from Berkeley and entered the graduate program in economics at the University of Chicago in 1954. He joined the faculty there in 1956 and completed his Ph.D. in 1957. He moved to Harvard in 1969. Throughout his career, Mr. Griliches maintained close ties with Israel and Hebrew University.
In 1965 he was awarded the prestigious John Bates Clark Medal, given every two years by the American Economic Association to the best economist under the age of 40. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1975 and served as the president of the American Economic Association in 1993. He also published articles on numismatics, driven by an interest in relatives of the same family name who were well-known designers of coins and medals in pre-Communist Russia.
Mr. Griliches is survived by his wife; a daughter, Eve, of Charlestown, Mass., and a son, Mark, of Brookline, Mass.
When asked how he could concentrate on the abstract world of mathematical statistics after both his parents were murdered and after suffering himself in Nazi work camps, Mr. Griliches said: "After we came out of the Holocaust, we did not look back. We had too much trouble re-establishing some kind of life and getting going. Besides, there was no point in dwelling. People like me were a dime a dozen. Lots of people, everyone had a story. No one out there was interested in our stories."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zvi Griliches (1994)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LITHUANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); STATISTICS (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); CANCER (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); APPOINTMENTS (62%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (56%); 

PERSON: GRILICHES, ZVI; WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M DIANE ASSEO GRILICHES (96%); ZVI GRILICHES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



93 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
European Central Bankers Raise Key Rate a Half-Point

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Declaring that Europe's economic outlook had turned "far more favorable," the European Central Bank reversed course today and raised interest rates for the first time in its short history.
The increase in the benchmark refinancing rate, to 3 percent from 2.5 percent, had been widely expected and still left European interest rates substantially below those in the United States. 
 And although higher rates tend to brake economic growth, investors reacted favorably. European stock indexes rose and bond yields narrowed slightly, apparently reflecting investors' conviction that the fairly big increase today would preclude further rate rises for at least a few months.
Stock traders in the United States also appeared unfazed by the European move, concluding that it had little bearing on whether Federal Reserve policy makers would raise rates at their next meeting on Nov. 16. Stocks ended higher, with the Nasdaq market reaching its fifth consecutive record close.
But the European single currency took a somewhat surprising dip. After initially climbing against the dollar, the euro slipped to a six-week low and settled at $1.0377 in New York, down from $1.0485 on Wednesday.
Hints of today's move in the refinancing rate -- the interest that the European Central Bank charges commercial banks for short-term loans -- had been well advertised in recent weeks by bank officials. They had repeatedly emphasized a growing concern about risks of heightened inflation.
Still, until today, the central bank had been primarily concerned with preventing a serious economic downturn or a possible bout of deflationary price decreases. The bank reduced its rates in April to 2.5 percent from 3 percent. That followed a rate cut in December, just before the European bank formally assumed its powers, by the individual central banks of all 11 member countries.
With today's decision, the bank placed the emphasis once again on preventing inflation.
Though concrete evidence of inflation remains as negligible in Europe as in the United States, the supply of money has increased more quickly than European central bankers either expected or wanted.
The bank's main measure of the money supply expanded by at an annual rate of 5.9 percent in recent months, far above its target of 4.5 percent. More money in circulation can increase inflation.
"We came to the conclusion that there is ample liquidity," said Wim Duisenberg, the European Central Bank's president. "We want to prevent the liquidity situation from becoming so ample that it would over time exert an upward pressure on prices."
The rate increase today coincided with a smaller increase by the Bank of England. That move, to 5.5 percent for the securities repurchase rate from 5.25 percent, was the second increase in two months in Britain, which has not yet adopted the euro and sets monetary policy independently of the European Central Bank. But the economic situation in Britain is considerably better than across much of Continental Europe. Though growth is quite strong in France and torrid in smaller countries like Ireland and the Netherlands, it remains modest in Germany, which accounts for about one-third of the euro zone's economic output.
France's economy is growing at an annual rate of more than 2.5 percent and business confidence is improving. But at this point, Germany will do well to grow by more than 1.5 percent this year and 2.5 percent in 2000.
Because European interest rates are still low, economists throughout the region greeted the rate increase today as a fairly painless precautionary step.
"The rate cut in April was really not necessary because there really was no threat of deflation," said Stefan Bergheim, an economist at Merrill Lynch in Frankfurt, "so this in some ways corrects that decision."
Manuela Preuschl, an economist at Deutsche Bank, told Bloomberg News, "Investors got what they wanted -- an assurance European central bankers are keeping a close eye on inflation."
The increase of a half-percentage-point, rather than just a quarter-point, was considered fairly forceful.
"A timely rise in interest rates will avoid the need for a larger increase in interest rates later," Mr. Duisenberg said today. At the same time, he refused to rule out further rises. After reducing rates in April, he said "this is it" and there would be no more rate cuts. Today, he said he simply could not say the same thing.
Indeed, many analysts are convinced that higher rates are likely later next year. Though few experts think that the European Central Bank will move again for several months, many predict that rates will climb next summer or autumn.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wim Duisenberg, European Central Bank chief, explaining the step at Frankfurt briefing yesterday. (Associated Press)
 
Graphs: "CURRENCIES" tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since April 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).
 
Chart: "The Cost of Money"
Interest rates have been rising in most industrial countries, as central banks try to prevent inflation. But in Japan, a weak economy has kept interest rates negligible.
 
 
Britain
BENCHMARK INTEREST RATE: 5.50%
LAST RATE CHANGE: +0.25
 
United States
BENCHMARK INTEREST RATE: 5.25%
LAST RATE CHANGE: +0.25
 
European Union
BENCHMARK INTEREST RATE: 3.00%
LAST RATE CHANGE: +0.50
 
Japan
BENCHMARK INTEREST RATE: 0.50%
LAST RATE CHANGE: -0.50
 
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Bank of Japan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); BANK OF ENGLAND (50%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; CURRENCY CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EURO (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BONDS (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); BOND MARKETS (70%); 

PERSON: DUISENBERG, WIM; ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



94 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
The Parent Behind a Landmark Schools Suit

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN 

 BODY:
TO illustrate an anecdote, Robert Jackson tore off a piece of paper, popped it in his mouth, and chewed. As an 8-year-old in Harlem, he worked for a newsstand owner who punished him thus if he returned from his route with newspapers that were unsold. "She taught us not to bite off more than we could chew," he said.
A judge will decide whether Mr. Jackson learned his childhood lesson. For Mr. Jackson, now 48, is the lead plaintiff in a landmark class action suit that claims the state's disbursement for New York City's schools is unconstitutional and harms the largely minority student population. The state retorts that New York City has squandered the money. 
 At stake in the trial, which opened last month in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, is the allocation of more than a billion dollars and the education of more than a million children.
Mr. Jackson swallowed the chewed paper and smiled coolly. He is a stubborn and patient man, with the ability to keep his outrage on low simmer for years.
Consider: When his wife, Faika, a Tanzanian administrator at the United Nations, volunteered him in 1980 for the parents' association of Public School 187 in Washington Heights, his eldest daughter, Saadiya, was entering kindergarten. Recently -- and almost 20 years later -- Mr. Jackson, a former president of the association, stepped down. Saadiya is in medical school.
When he ran for his local school board in 1986, his next daughter, Asmahan, was entering first grade. After 13 battle-weary years, he still serves on the board of District 6. Asmahan is a college sophomore.
And when, fed up as both a parent active in his daughters' schooling and as an elected community representative facing shrinking budgets and teeming classrooms, he helped file the lawsuit, his third daughter, Sumaya, was entering second grade. With the trial under way, she is in eighth grade. Mr. Jackson wonders if she will reap any benefits before graduating from high school.
Mr. Jackson is a long-haul kind of guy. A member of two Democratic clubs and the leader in his tenants' association, he even manages to hold down a day job -- as regional supervisor for a union of state professional, technical and scientific workers.
He is the soft-spoken survivor of a rugged boyhood in Harlem and the Bronx, the sixth of nine children. One brother was stabbed to death. Another died of alcoholism. A sister died of a drug overdose.
Laid low by poverty, his mother, Zelma Jackson, struggled to hold the family together while her husband, Eddie Chu, a Chinese immigrant who worked as a waiter in a Long Island restaurant, commuted home on weekends.
Eddie Chu was the psychological father of all the Jackson siblings, and the biological father of some (including Robert). A household that melded African-American and Chinese traditions, said Mr. Jackson, was normal for him, but a puzzle to outsiders.
"My nephew Lamont is a teenager, about 6 feet 3 inches, 230 pounds," Mr. Jackson said. "My father was about 5 feet, maybe 90 pounds dripping wet." Once, Lamont spotted Mr. Chu on the subway. "The police thought he was messing with this old Chinese man and said, 'Stop bothering that guy!' And Lamont said, 'Hey! That's my grandfather!' "

 MR. JACKSON'S parents urged him to be proud, not defensive, about their unorthodox family. "Neighbors would ask, 'Why is your name Jackson when your mother's name is Chu?' My mother taught us to say, 'None of your business.' As a family we were not timid."
Mr. Jackson was a truculent kid with promise. At Benjamin Franklin High School, he instigated a protest over chains on fire exit doors. It drew media attention and results. Helped by Upward Bound, a federal program for low-income students, he attended the state university at New Paltz, where he wore an Afro and majored in student unrest and urban studies.
After college, he investigated unemployment fraud for the State Labor Department. He switched to working for his union, the Public Employees Federation, because, he said, "it was more exciting."
Mr. Jackson's office bulletin board is covered with protest buttons, alegacy of a man who says with almost every breath: "Something has to be done! This is ridiculous!"
And so, at 5:30 one morning last month, about 50 parents and children gathered in front of his apartment, and, carrying signs, walked 12.1 miles in the chilly darkness to the steps of state court in lower Manhattan for the opening day of Campaign for Fiscal Equity -- the coalition he leads -- v. the State of New York.
Mr. Jackson's coalition argues that the state's financing fails constitutional guarantees of a "sound, basic education" and "minimally adequate facilities," and discriminates against minority students.
"When kids don't have a schoolyard to play in, no wood shop, no chemistry lab, when they're shuttled to lunch in 20-minute periods starting at 10: 30 a.m.," Mr. Jackson said, "naw. No one can tell me that's an appropriate education. No, no, no."
He paused in mid-harangue to take a call about a speaking engagement. The caller was checking Mr. Jackson's titles.
"That's right, that's right," Mr. Jackson said into the telephone. "But first of all, I want you to introduce me as a parent."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Jackson questions the way state aid is disbursed in city schools. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; MINORITIES (US); BLACKS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NEWSSTANDS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); CLASS ACTIONS (75%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); FAMILY (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); DEATHS (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: HOFFMAN, JAN; JACKSON, ROBERT ROBERT JACKSON (99%); EDDIE CHU (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



95 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: A Shareholder, And a Citizen

BYLINE: By Robert B. Reich; Robert B. Reich, a former secretary of labor, is a professor of economic and social policy at Brandeis University and national editor of The American Prospect.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Soon, possibly tonight, a federal judge will rule on the Justice Department's antitrust case against Microsoft. But whatever the decision, it's only the first round in this and related litigation.
That's why I've been spending my money lobbying Congress to cut the budget of the Justice Department's antitrust division. I've also hired a fleet of Washington lobbyists to persuade Congress that the government's lawsuit is misguided and launched a "grass roots" Internet campaign to get other people to send messages to their representatives saying the same thing. I've sent money to Republican and Democratic campaign committees, which will use it to benefit candidates sympathetic toward Microsoft. I've even organized lobbying in state capitals to get the message out to state lawmakers. 
 You see, I'm a shareholder of Microsoft. Not a big one, mind you. Bill Gates may not even know that I'm one of his bosses -- but I am, because under the law the company's first responsibility is to maximize the value my shares.
So all the money Microsoft has been spending lately lobbying and politicking -- in part, my money -- has been spent on my behalf, just as if it were being invested in a new software product.
However, I'm not happy about what I've been doing with my money. That's because I'm not just a Microsoft shareholder. I'm also a United States citizen, and I have goals other than maximizing the value of my stock.
I think it's a good thing that we have a Justice Department, and that antitrust laws are enforced against powerful companies. I don't want to live in a country dominated by the interests of big companies, even the ones I own.
In short, I don't want Microsoft to maximize the value of my shares at the expense of my values as a citizen. When I bought my tiny piece of the company, I wasn't saying, "Take my money and do whatever's politically necessary to give me a big return on it." I was only asking the company to do whatever was technologically and economically necessary to give me a big return.
Yes, I could sell my Microsoft shares and invest the money elsewhere, following the age-old American principle that if you don't like it, leave. But I'd rather not. I still have a lot of confidence in the company's ability to make innovative software. Besides, it's getting hard to find a high technology company these days that's not pouring money into politics. High technology is becoming high influence peddling.
More important, lobbying efforts like Microsoft's violate an implicit social bargain that major corporations have with America. For years now, big companies have argued that they have no social responsibility to the public at large.
Yes, most give some money to worthy causes and a few have reinvigorated ailing urban neighborhoods. But these gestures are understood as good public relations. When it comes to major business decisions, corporations justify any action by claiming a duty to their shareholders.
By contrast, big companies in social democratic countries like Germany and France, and in corporatist countries like Japan and South Korea, have overt responsibilities to the public in addition to their duties to their shareholders. Sometimes public representatives sit on their boards of directors, or big quasi-public banks exercise certain powers over them, or community and labor groups have direct input.
The American deal has always been that a corporation's responsibilities to the public are better addressed in the legislative process than inside corporate boardrooms. This division of authority has allowed us to exercise our economic rights by investing in companies while exercising our political rights by voting in elections. I can instruct Microsoft to increase the value of my shares while also instructing my political representatives to pass laws to make sure that a giant corporation doesn't harm anything I believe in as a citizen.
Yet in recent years companies have been investing more and more in politics. When a company like Microsoft uses extraordinary economic clout to try so specifically to undercut a Federal agency, it crosses a divide.
Trying to shift government away from what citizens would like and toward what shareholders would profit from raises questions about the larger social bargain America has made with every giant corporation.
Microsoft may not realize it, but its political tactics are making an eloquent case that it and other corporate behemoths should be either more directly accountable to the public or busted up.
And I'm not just anybody making this point. I'm one of Microsoft's owners.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Alexander Isley and MK Mabry)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ANTITRUST DIVISION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ANTITRUST DIVISION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JUDGES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



96 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Nasdaq Gains 27.44, Continuing Into Record Territory

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
The technology-dominated Nasdaq market pushed further into record territory yesterday but stocks generally pulled back from sizable early-session gains as Wall Street braced for the Labor Department's report this morning on October's job market.
The Nasdaq composite finished with its sixth straight gain, advancing 27.44 points, or nine-tenths of 1 percent. At 3,055.95, the index is up 9 percent in the last week and 39 percent so far this year. 
 Still, yesterday's gain had been nearly twice as big early in the session, and the Dow Jones industrials finished at 10,639.57, up just 30.51 points, or three-tenths of a percent, after sporting a mid-morning gain of more than 102 points. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 7.71 points, or almost six-tenths of a percent, to 1,362.64.
"They lost their nerve worrying about what the payroll number was going to do tomorrow," said Hank Herrmann, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed. The jobs number is one of the most closely watched indicators of the economy and a rise of more than an expected 300,000 or so would revive fears in the stock market that the Federal Reserve will raise its interest rate target when it meets on Nov. 16.
That prospect has receded substantially of late but could return, said Mr. Herrmann, himself skeptical of scattered evidence that the economy is slowing down on its own.
Many financial stocks, which are widely but perhaps erroneously regarded as vulnerable to rising rates, posted big gains yesterday, with J. P. Morgan up 4 3/8, to 133 1/2, to account for more than two-thirds of the rise in the Dow blue chips. Citigroup rose 1 3/4, to 54 3/4, while Republic New York jumped 3 11/16, to 68 3/8, on expectations that HSBC Holdings will proceed with its planned purchase of Republic.
Drug stocks climbed again as Pfizer sought to acquire Warner-Lambert, which on Wednesday announced a merger with American Home Products. After a trading halt, Warner-Lambert jumped 6 9/16, to 90 3/8, while shares of its two suitors eased. Eli Lilly and Schering-Plough each gained more than 4 as investors considered the industry's consolidation.
The S.& P. 500 was paced by gains of 2 1/8, to 67 11/16, for Lucent Technologies and 1 13/16, to 81 1/2, for Intel. America Online surged 5, to 144, aided by a Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette analyst who reiterated his "top pick" designation for the shares.
Of the index components, winners outnumbered losers 248 to 229, evidence of the improved market breadth that has emerged lately.
Another plus was the projection by Abby Joseph Cohen, the venerable Goldman, Sachs strategist, that the profits of S.& P. companies would grow another 8 percent next year.
Alan Hoffman, senior portfolio manager at Value Line Asset Management, also expressed optimism about the market outlook while warning that year-end computer problems could prove disruptive, especially the impact of foreign failures on multinational companies.
Investors took in stride yesterday's increase in European interest rates, which reflected economic recovery there. Stocks advanced 1.34 percent in Frankfurt and eight-tenths of 1 percent in London. Gains in the Far East were stronger, 2.97 percent in Hong Kong and 1.98 percent in Tokyo.
On the New York Stock Exchange, volume swelled to 981.7 million shares from 914.4 million Wednesday as 1,605 stocks advanced, 1,466 declined, 91 made new 52-week highs and 94 fell to new lows.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (61%); ALU (NYSE) (61%); ALU (BIT) (61%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); WDR (NYSE) (55%); HSBA (LSE) (52%); HSB (PAR) (52%); HBC (NYSE) (52%); 0005 (HKSE) (52%); PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%); LLY (SWX) (52%); LLY (NYSE) (52%); AOL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (61%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (61%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (55%); WADDELL & REED INC (55%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (52%); PFIZER INC (52%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (52%); ELI LILLY & CO (52%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (50%); AOL INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (96%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MERGERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (61%); EXECUTIVES (52%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR HANK HERRMANN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



97 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury Prices Keep Rising; 30-Year's Yield Slips to 6.10%

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices gained for the third consecutive session yesterday on optimism that the Federal Reserve might not raise short-term interest rates again this year.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 16/32, to 100 12/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 6.10 percent from 6.13 percent on Wednesday. 
 Evidence seems to suggest that inflation is not accelerating enough to set off alarms, so there is less concern by investors of a rate increase by the central bank.
Still, the market may be setting itself up for a big disappointment if the latest employment figures, scheduled for release this morning, are stronger than expected. The consensus is that the economy added about 300,000 jobs last month, with the unemployment rate unchanged at 4.2 percent.
Robert Pugliese, senior vice president and director of fixed income at the J. W. Genesis Financial Corporation in Boca Raton, Fla., saw yesterday as more follow-through buying from the previous day along with some short covering.
"Basically, I think people are comfortable with rates as they are," Mr. Pugliese said. "The market was oversold, and prices have come back nicely. There are those in the market who are looking past Friday's employment report and are assuming the Fed will only tighten once more this year. From my view, the market is technically and fundamentally in good shape at this time."
Kim Rupert, an economist for Standard & Poor's MMS, a San Francisco-based market research and analysis firm said, "The Fed policy outlook has been clouded greatly, indeed whipsawed, by a combination of data and Fedspeak.
"One major factor behind this has been lack of consistency in the Fed's management of expectations," she added.
Referring to the Consumer Price Index, Ms. Rupert said that "after embarking on a pre-emptive policy approach last spring following the surge in the C.P.I., and setting out to remove the easings of 1998, the Fed appears to have turned soft."
Ms. Rupert thinks even Alan Grenspan, the Fed chairman, has backed off a bit after another attempt to prick the stock market bubble.
"At this point," she said, "the cost of a move is still minimal. Unambiguous strength in the payroll report would likely spur a tightening, but a tame report would leave the policy outlook wide open and the market on tenterhooks."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since July. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); BOND MARKETS (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT KIM RUPERT (74%); ROBERT PUGLIESE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



98 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: Rally in Tehran Pays Lip Service To the Revolutionary Zeal of '79

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Iran, Nov. 4

 BODY:
For Islamic revolutionaries, it's a red-letter day, a day to raise old banners, shout old slogans, burn a few flags, renew the old fervor -- savor the days when Iran, in its dealings with America, had the sense that at last it was calling the shots.
It's Nov. 4, the day in 1979 when militant students clambered into the United States Embassy compound, seized more than 50 diplomats and began the 444-day hostage crisis that has poisoned ties between Iran and the United States ever since. 
 This anniversary, the 20th, was to have been a day of days, a triumphal homecoming for the revolutionary class of '79. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the Muslim cleric who leads the country now, had called on "followers of the Imam's line" -- the Imam being Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the revolution's original leader, who called the United States the Great Satan -- to show that time had not exhausted the passions that drove out the shah, and with him America, the "tyrant" that was his principal backer.
But somehow, amid the strident speechmaking and the punching of air that accompanied the rally in Tehran today, there was something out of temper, something registering unmistakably that even in Islamic Iran, the years have marched on. For one thing, there can hardly have been more than 5,000 people at the gathering, 7,000 by the most generous estimate, in a city of 12 million.
For another, many in the crowd, especially the young, seemed to have trouble working up the requisite animosity toward the United States. One 21-year-old woman, assigned to the rally by her college photography instructor, looked out bemused from beneath the head scarf required by Islamic dress codes. What did she think of the protest? "It's a joke," she said, nodding toward a group of young women with Western dress poking out from beneath their black cloaks. "How can you shout, 'Death to America!' when you're wearing blue jeans?"
Asked if she favored re-establishing Iran's ties with the United States, she scoffed. "Where have you been, asleep?" she said. "In every sense that really matters to me, we've had relations with America for years. All this is just a big show."
She was alluding to the Iran of 1999, with its Internet cafes, up-to-date Hollywood movies in video rental stores, American designer clothes in fancy boutiques, Coca-Cola served from sidewalk stalls, prosperous Iranian-Americans commuting between Tehran and new homes in New York and Dallas and Los Angeles. What is missing are the diplomatic links severed the moment the embassy was seized, and even they may not be far away, in view of feelers put out by both governments in recent years.
On the podium set up close to the gates of the old embassy on Taleqani Street, one of those who participated in the embassy takeover, Mohsen Rezaie, former commander of the Revolutionary Guards, had trouble holding the crowd with his speech. It was mostly a walk down memory lane, with references to the "den of spies," as Ayatollah Khomeini called the embassy, to American "arrogance," and to the hostage-takers' "compassion" in releasing women and African-Americans before the diplomatic deal that sent the others safely home on Jan. 20, 1981.
This year there was no repeat of an awkward moment at the 1998 rally, when an indecorous student pointed out that Mr. Rezaie's son had recently fled to the United States and sought refugee status there, a fact prominently reported in Tehran newspapers that support a democratic reform movement. The student suggested, to laughter from the crowd, that the former hostage-taker might want to bring his son home before lecturing other Iranians about revolutionary vigilance toward the United States.
But if there was nothing quite so cheeky today, there was plenty to suggest that many young Iranians are exhausted by the enmity. There was an array of caps bearing logos for the Yankees, the Lakers, the Redskins and other American teams. There were students, and others, who turned up with posters bearing the image of President Muhammad Khatami, the cleric who has galvanized the reform movement and outraged conservative clerics. Mr. Khatami envisions an Iran that curbs the excesses of clerical rule with democratic institutions and an enhanced regard for human rights.
The Khatami images were vastly outnumbered by posters for Ayatollah Khomeini and his successor, Ayatollah Khamenei, who in a speech on Wednesday rebutted President Khatami's calls for a "dialogue" with the United States, saying that only "simpletons and traitors" could seek a rapprochement. One young man who unfolded a homemade Khatami poster had it snatched away and crumpled up by a rough-hewn man in his 40's who identified himself as a member of Hezbollah, the Party of God, one of the most contentious Islamic groups in Iran.
The poster-snatcher, in all likelihood, was one of the '79 veterans for whom the embassy seizure and the militancy that engendered it have a sacred quality not to be tampered with by revisionists. In one of the twists to Iran's revolutionary story, many of the most influential advisers to President Khatami were agitators once themselves. Some helped seize the embassy, and watched as the bewildered diplomats were led blindfolded into the compound to be displayed as trophies.
Judging from today's crowd, the unwaveringly loyal are mainly those for whom the Islamic revolution offered an opportunity for self-aggrandizement, or relief from penury and powerlessness. There were graying men with red headbands and bandoliers; factory workers, clerks and janitors; Iran-Iraq war widows and orphans; rural dwellers for whom the revolution brought government jobs, educational opportunities and pensions; Muslim clerics who emerged as powers in the land.
Many sported the several-day stubble and collarless cleric's shirts that became the revolutionary uniform. They shouted, "Death to America!" and "Death to Israel!" Harking back to a tradition that has fallen out of favor last year, they burned flags, clambering atop scaffolding opposite the old embassy compound to drape the Stars and Stripes, the blue-and-white flag of Israel and the Union Jack of Britain, then set them alight. One banner denounced the Great Satan, a phrase little heard since Ayatollah Khomeini died in 1989.
Still, it was the irreverent counterpoints that lent a special character to the day. A 17-year-old student, Hassan, said that from what he had heard, America wasn't so bad. "My sister is in America, and she says it's a nice place, so I don't see why I should shout, 'Death to America!' " he said. "Besides, many Iranians live in the United States, so wouldn't it make sense if we were good friends?" Ardeshir, also 17, thought the moment called for something ironic. "Oh, America, my love!" he said, in English, spreading his arms, grinning broadly.
Nearby a dispute about the flag-burning had broken out, with a glowering, stubble-faced member of the "basiji," revolutionary volunteers who have often acted as vigilantes, remonstrating with Samim, an 18-year-old, for expressing doubts. "I don't believe in flag-burning, it's disrespectful," Samim rejoined. "How would you feel if somebody burned the Iranian flag?" As smuts from the flags floated down like chaff, a 14-year-old boy chipped in, "We shouldn't burn the American flag because we love the American people."
In the hubbub, there was one point on which even those most genially disposed toward the United States seemed to concur: that Washington should stop setting conditions for Iran to meet before economic sanctions and diplomatic isolation are stopped. The Clinton administration has said Iran must disavow the development of nuclear weapons, end its support for "terrorists" -- including Hamas and Hezbollah, which have attacked Israeli civilians from bases in Lebanon and Gaza -- and stop opposing the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians.
In his speech on the eve of the rally, Ayatollah Khamenei said Iran was effectively being asked to "submit" to the United States as it had under the shah. In this, at least, the ayatollah appeared to have almost universal support. Abbas Dasht, a 35-year-old lawyer who had joined the hostage-takers as a teenage volunteer, said the United States had learned nothing from the experience. "Our message was that Iran wanted to be independent, and to have that independence respected," he said. "So there cannot be any question of setting conditions for us now."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Tehran scene yesterday recalled the American Embassy takeover 20 years ago, and the start of the hostage crisis. Crude renderings of the American flag received familiar treatment, but the fervor seemed forced. (Associated Press)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE COCA-COLA CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; TEHERAN (IRAN); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHILDREN AND YOUTH MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); WOMEN (68%); RETAILERS (63%); RIOTS (60%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (60%); FILM (60%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; KHAMENEI, ALI (AYATOLLAH) ALI KHAMENEI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



99 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Co-op City Hires Outside Managers

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
For the first time in Co-op City's 31-year history, its board of directors has hired an outside management company, with the goals of cutting operating costs while increasing revenue and making improvements at the 15,372-apartment Bronx development.
The hiring in August of the management concern, Marion Scott Real Estate Inc. of Manhattan, was a bold move for the board of Co-op City, a middle-income complex of 35 towers, 7 schools and 3 retail centers that was built in 1968 under the state's Mitchell-Lama program. The project, on more than 300 acres between Interstate 95 and the Hutchinson River Parkway on the site of the former Freedomland amusement park, has suffered from a history of poor management as well as financial and construction-defect problems. 
 Its aging structures, including eight parking garages, need renovations, as does its underground distribution system for heat and hot water, on which repairs were started but never completed. Mortgage arrears of $130.7 million have to be repaid, beginning next July.
Marion Scott Real Estate, which manages about 30,000 apartments in 30 government-assisted developments in the New York area, said it planned to tackle those as well as other improvements, including replacing windows and elevators. It also intends to slash costs from the complex's $134 million operating budget. Since it took over last month, the new management says, it has cut $1 million annually in insurance costs by switching insurance programs.
Iris Herskowitz Baez, the president of the Riverbay Corporation, which owns Co-op City, said hiring a professional management team was crucial to the community's survival. "After years of mismanagement by ineffective general managers," she said, "this is a way to put strict cost-saving measures in place and take board politics out of the process."
The state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal, which oversees all Mitchell-Lama projects in the state, approved Marion Scott's one-year, $1.45 million contract. "We see professional management as good for Co-op City," Otis Jones, deputy commissioner of the state agency, said, adding that he expected it "will prove beneficial in helping the complex become fiscally sound."
The added hope, Ms. Baez said, is that with new management in place, the State Housing Finance Agency, which holds Co-op City's mortgage, will extend the deadline to start paying the state 13 annual payments of $10 million to settle the unpaid mortgage, or will restructure the debt.
"We're hoping to convince the state that we want to remain a strong and viable complex, but that will take time," Ms. Baez said. "We are in discussion with the state to come to a solution."
Joanna Rose, a spokeswoman for the state's Housing Finance Agency, confirmed that the agency was participating in discussions on the mortgage repayments. "The H.F.A.," she said, "is committed to working with the residents and the board of directors of Riverbay Corporation to address the long-term physical needs of Co-op City."
Many of the needed repairs stem from construction-related defects, and Co-op City residents and state officials have been arguing for years over who should pay for them. In 1975, residents went on a rent strike to protest increases in the monthly carrying charges.
Under a 1992 agreement with the State Housing Finance Agency, the state agreed to provide $108 million for necessary repairs, and Riverbay put up $25 million. But the estimated cost of the repairs at the time was $210 million, and monthly carrying charges for the tenants were raised by 5 percent in 1992 and 4.7 percent in 1995. That agreement also calls for Co-op City to begin repaying the $130.7 million in mortgage arrears in 2000.
Ms. Baez said the repairs were "necessities that must be handled first." If the July deadline is imposed, the monthly carrying charges must be increased to meet the annual mortgage payments, which she said could price some residents out of their apartments. "We hope to prevent that," she said.
Co-op City has one- to three-bedroom apartments, with 750 to 1,400 square feet. They are sold to buyers earning $18,900 to $98,000 a year, based on apartment and family size, with constraints on the profits they can make when they sell their units. Prices for the units, 412 of which are vacant, range from $5,250 for a one-bedroom to $12,250 for a three-bedroom; the monthly carrying charges are $450 to $1,050.
The principals of Marion Scott Real Estate are not strangers to Co-op City. From 1975 to 1978, the company's founder, Marion Scott, was a special consultant to Gov. Hugh L. Carey, and worked with Riverbay to stabilize the project. Herbert D. Freedman, the company's general counsel, also represented Co-op City residents during their 1975 rent strike and then became the group's lawyer for the next four years.
Nor is the company a stranger to troubled co-ops. In 1991, it took over the management of Rochdale Village, a 5,860-unit co-op in Jamaica, Queens, that had problems similar to those facing Co-op City, and improved that complex without increasing residents' monthly carrying charges, Mr. Scott said. He said his company intended to use the same strategy at Co-op City "to re-establish value."
The complex, Mr. Freedman added, "is terrific real estate, but the only way for it to rebound is to hold down expenses." Doing so, he said, "will create a path to dig the project out of its financial troubles and find the money to make improvements," which he estimated would cost $200 million.
In addition to saving the co-op money on its insurance costs, Marion Scott over the last month began renegotiating repair contracts to generate savings over original estimates. A playground repair budgeted at $230,000, is now expected to cost $140,000. Instead of completely renovating two garages, budgeted at $26 million, the company plans to repair all eight for $12 million and find a new operator to save additional costs, Mr. Freedman said. The goal is to cut the complex's annual budget by 10 percent, he said.
Repairs to the garages and to the incomplete part of the underground utility system, which are priorities, are expected to start this spring, Mr. Freedman said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iris Herskowitz Baez, who heads the corporation that owns Co-op City, with Herbert D. Freedman, the general counsel for its new managers. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RIVERBAY CORP (66%); STATE HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CO-OP CITY (BRONX, NYC) REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); RETAILERS (55%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE IRIS HERSKOWITZ BAEZ (78%); MARION SCOTT (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



100 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Rodriguez and Green Cause Teams to Quiver

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Alex Rodriguez, his agent and the Seattle Mariners' brain trust were in the same room in the same city for a while yesterday, while Shawn Green and his agent and the Toronto Blue Jays' general manager were in the same state only 20 minutes apart. But both groups really were in the same state -- a state of uncertainty.
Rodriguez and Green are two of the band of glamorous young players who could be free agents at the end of next season, and whose teams must decide which path to follow if they can't sign them to new contracts. The growing feeling among club presidents and general managers is to trade the players rather than enter next season with them unsigned for the future and face losing them as free agents while receiving nothing in return. 
 Last Tuesday, the Texas Rangers traded Juan Gonzalez to the Detroit Tigers and Ken Griffey Jr. asked the Mariners to trade him to a team closer to his Orlando, Fla., home. The Blue Jays must also make a decision on Carlos Delgado, and the Cleveland Indians are in a similar position with Manny Ramirez.
"I certainly understand, as does Shawn, that the longer these talks go on the more likely it is the Blue Jays will pursue other options," Jeff Moorad, Green's agent, said after a late-afternoon conversation with General Manager Gord Ash. "Gord has made it clear that they would rather trade Shawn than go into the 2000 season with him unsigned for the future. We understand Gord's position."
Moorad was speaking by telephone from his office in Newport Beach, Calif. Ash was 20 minutes south at the hotel in Dana Point, where general managers will hold their annual meetings beginning Sunday.
Ash said the Blue Jays' preference was to sign Green, whom they have offered a five-year contract. "But," he added, "I think he's leaning another way. I think we want to have another conversation with Moorad, but we've both had ample time to make sure everybody's mind-set is what it is, and we need to go from there."
Rodriguez was in Las Vegas for tonight's Players Choice awards dinner, and he and his agent, Scott Boras, met with Pat Gillick, the Mariners' new general manager; Howard Lincoln, the club's new chairman, and Chuck Armstrong, the president.
It was billed as a "get acquainted" session, but the Mariners' triumvirate had one of those with Griffey last Tuesday and emerged with the stunning announcement that their superstar center fielder had asked them to trade him. The news came unexpectedly to them.
The Mariners knew they were going to have trouble retaining Griffey and Rodriguez, their superstar shortstop, even after they offered them long-term contracts worth more than $250 million combined. If they determine that they can't sign Rodriguez and want to trade him, the Mariners will face another formidable task. Rodriguez and Boras have said publicly that if the shortstop is traded, he does not intend to sign a new contract, waiting for free agency to do that.
So, teams would be faced with giving the Mariners a package of players they want without knowing if they would have Rodriguez for more than a year.
"There's only a very narrow market for those players to begin with for economic reasons," Ash said. "Then when you pile on the uncertainty of whether they will be there, it becomes more difficult. It's not the easiest thing to trade a player a year away from free agency."
Unlike Rodriguez, Griffey apparently is willing to listen to contract offers from the team he is traded to, if he is traded. But even Rodriguez could change his mind.
When the Oakland Athletics traded Mark McGwire to St. Louis on July 31, 1997, there appeared to be no chance that he would sign a new contract with the Cardinals and remain with them beyond that season. He was intent on playing in southern California so he could be near his son. But less than two months later, having become quite happy with the environment in St. Louis, he signed a three-year contract. His record-breaking home run feats followed.
Asked if Green would sign a contract with a team he were traded to, Moorad said: "It would depend on the organization involved. A year away from free agency, Shawn has the ability to choose his own team in a year. At the same time, we've compiled a preference list internally with Shawn. There are some situations that are frankly much more attractive than others."
Ash said the Blue Jays have not changed their initial offer to Green because of the way the talks have proceeded, but they have amended their offer to Delgado. They are no closer to an agreement, though, than they are with Green.
"The position of the player and the representative is they want to talk about one year," Ash said. "One year doesn't work for us."
If the Blue Jays were to trade Green and Delgado, Ash said, they would want players in return who "come close to replicating what they've done." He said Toronto did not have the luxury that the Rangers had when they traded Gonzalez with hitters like Rafael Palmeiro and Ivan Rodriguez remaining in their lineup. "We need more mature major league players," Ash said.
This past season Green hit .309 with 42 home runs and 123 runs batted in. Delgado batted .272 with 44 home runs and 134 r.b.i.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Since Alex Rodriguez can be a free agent after next season, Seattle may have little choice but to trade him now. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (73%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (76%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (76%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: TORONTO BLUE JAYS (93%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (93%); SEATTLE MARINERS (91%); SEATTLE MARINERS (91%); TEXAS RANGERS (56%); DETROIT TIGERS (56%); DETROIT TIGERS (56%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO BLUE JAYS (93%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (93%); SEATTLE MARINERS (91%); SEATTLE MARINERS (91%); TEXAS RANGERS (56%); DETROIT TIGERS (56%); DETROIT TIGERS (56%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (73%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (76%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (76%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; TRADES (SPORTS) BASEBALL (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CELEBRITIES (84%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY ALEX RODRIGUEZ (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



101 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: For Workers at the Prospective Partners,Healthy Doses of Uncertainty

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN 

DATELINE: MORRIS PLAINS, N.J., Nov. 4

 BODY:
It was a day like any other today outside the world headquarters of Warner-Lambert. Some employees hurried to lunch, others jogged and limousine drivers waited outside the yellow brick, glass-lined buildings to whisk executives away to out-of-town assignments.
But the normal appearance ran counter to the continuing boardroom drama that would affect the fate of Warner-Lambert's 3,000 employees at this suburban corporate campus. 
 Company officials announced during a midday news conference that they would be merging with American Home Products, which is just 10 miles away, bringing some uncertainty to the future of the work force. But at almost the same time, they learned that yet another company, Pfizer, which is based in Manhattan, was bidding for Warner-Lambert as well.
For at least a day, most workers at the company that makes the cholesterol drug Lipitor, Bubblicious gum and Listerine, thought they would be merging with American Home Products, which has its headquarters in Madison, a city that is in Morris County, as is Warner-Lambert.
American Home Products makes the Sonata sleeping pill, Advil and Chapstick. The company has 3,700 employees in New Jersey, with 700 of them in Madison and another 700 in nearby Parsippany.
A merger between the two pharmaceutical companies, some Warner-Lambert employees said, seemed like a good idea, even though no one knows what it will mean for the size of the work force at either place.
"You could not ask for a better marriage," said Jay Zella, director of data architecture at Warner-Lambert, as he walked outside one of the buildings. "They're strong on the consumer side, and were strong on the pharmaceutical side. It's a good move."
While everyone said it was too soon to tell what it would mean for particular jobs, the new company might be good for stockholders, which includes many employees with stock options. Indeed, on Wednesday, when word of the proposed merger began making its way through Wall Street, the stock of both companies went up. Shares of American Home Products jumped 11 percent, to $56, while Warner-Lambert stock rose 7 percent, to $83.8125. Thursday shares of American Home fell $1, to $55, while Warner-Lambert soared $6.1875, to $90, on news of the hostile Pfizer offer. Shares of Pfizer fell $1.3125, to $37.25.
"Personally I think it will be a good thing for employees because of the opportunities it will present to us," said Steve Balumbo, director of finance, who was hurrying back from lunch for a meeting. "As for layoffs or other things like that, there might be something there, but its hard to know right now."
A limousine driver, William Allison, said the merger was the talk among his passengers for the last two days. Mr. Allison, whose company, Empire International, holds contracts with both Warner-Lambert and American Home, said he drove two people from Hoffman-La Roche, a competing pharmaceutical company based in Nutley and they also were talking about the merger.
"They were saying that the companies will probably have to relocate some people or let others go," Mr. Allison said. "Everyone is talking about it."
But even as they spoke, the news of Pfizer's bid emerged, so the fate of Warner-Lambert was unclear.
At American Home's Madison operation, employees were also uncertain about what the Pfizer action would mean for them.
"Our employees are focused and used to some ups and downs," said American Home's Lowell Weiner, who is assistant vice president for public relations. "Life goes on here."
Pfizer, which is based in Manhattan, also has offices in Morris County, which is home to 54 Fortune 500 companies. Christopher Marra, executive director of the Morris Area Development Group, a private-public partnership for economic development, said Morris County has the second highest inventory of office and industrial space in the state, with 23 million square feet, after Bergen County.
The hills of Morris County, which are now ablaze with colorful autumn leaves, have long been a magnet for industrialists, Mr. Marra said, beginning at the turn of the century, when many executives from New York City had summer homes here, about a 45 minute drive from the city. Now the county has become a center for research and development companies in the telecommunications, software and pharmaceutical and financial service industries. Most of the county's industrial and office space has been built since 1982, he said.
As for the merger of two of these companies, Warner-Lambert and American Home, Mr. Marra said that in the long run it would be good for the county's economy.
"Initially, you have to be concerned that one of those facilities won't be kept," he said. "Obviously, they're going to try to find economies of scale, and maybe initially they will want less space."
"But over the long term, you might have one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world based in your county," he said. "In time, somehow, companies always need more space, they always hire more people and they always contract for more services. That has to be beneficial to us." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS; WARNER-LAMBERT CO PFIZER INC (92%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS; WARNER-LAMBERT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); MERGERS (89%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); CHOLESTEROL (54%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



102 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Opportunity Re-Knocks at Avon;
Passed Over Before, a Woman Is Named Chief Executive

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY 

 BODY:
Slightly more than a month after warning investors to expect disappointing financial results soon, Avon Products said yesterday it was replacing its chief executive with the ultimate Avon lady.
The promotion of Andrea Jung, Avon's president and chief operating officer, comes less than two years after a high-profile executive search in which she and three other women at the company were passed over in favor of Charles R. Perrin, an outsider with no experience in direct selling or cosmetics. 
 Ms. Jung becomes the fourth chief executive of a Fortune 500 company who is a woman, and the second to be named this year. She joins Carleton S. Fiorina at Hewlett-Packard, Jill Barad at Mattel and Marion Sandler at Golden West Financial.
The company also said yesterday that Stanley C. Gault, a 14-year Avon director who has been chairman and chief executive of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company and Rubbermaid, would replace Mr. Perrin as chairman, a position he had held since May.
Less than 18 months after Mr. Perrin arrived at Avon, two women considered for the top job back then have left the company and Avon's North American business is in a slump. Mr. Perrin, who is 53, abruptly announced yesterday that he was retiring with more than a year left on his contract.
Now, the Avon board is counting on Ms. Jung -- who is 41 and had been the company's second in command -- to revive a business that is facing tougher competition, slowing sales in the United States and a credibility issue with disappointed investors and analysts.
Given the weakness in Avon's core business, analysts said, the change was not entirely unexpected. But the timing was surprising.
Indeed, when Mr. Perrin became chief executive in July 1998, his predecessor, James Preston, said that the inside candidates, which included at least two men in addition to the four women, were "just a few years away" from being ready to take over.
At the time of Mr. Perrin's selection, Ms. Jung was also promoted to president from executive vice president, signaling her status as heir apparent to Mr. Perrin.
Ms. Jung "has a thorough knowledge of the company and the global beauty industry, as well as the passion to mobilize the organization during this period of significant change," Mr. Gault, who is 70, said in a statement yesterday. "It has been the board's intention that Andrea would become Avon's next C.E.O., and given Charlie's decision to retire, we firmly believe this is the right time."
Avon's recent poor performance, analysts and industry experts say, probably accelerated the change at the top. The company said on Sept. 29 that it would not meet analyst expectations in the current quarter.
With annual sales of $5.2 billion, Avon, which is based in New York, was expected to earn 63 cents a share for the period. Instead, it said profits would only match or improve slightly compared with the 56 cents it earned in the corresponding period a year ago. The company also said last month that because of weak holiday sales, it would probably not meet its target of 5 percent revenue growth.
Avon's domestic business has been hit by stiffer competition from companies like Procter & Gamble, which recently introduced a line of Oil of Olay cosmetics. It also suffers from an image problem with consumers who regard Avon as their mothers' makeup.
"Given what has gone on in the last year or so at Avon it's reasonable, but it's a little earlier than expected," said Mellissa Grant, an analyst with Warburg Dillon Read.
Ms. Jung, a marketing whiz who is said to have a keen grasp of the Avon consumer as well as the company's unique sales force of door-to-door "Avon Ladies," is credited with updating Avon's image, merchandise and packaging.
In an interview yesterday, Ms. Jung said that her top priorities would be to invest heavily in advertising and marketing, continue to expand the company's consumer-marketing programs and to "execute with a sense of urgency."
Though some analysts question the depth of Ms. Jung's operational skills, others familiar with Avon say she is clearly the best choice.
"She's a broad-based strategist," said Kirk Palmer, president of Kirk Palmer & Associates, a New York executive search firm specializing in retailing. "Andrea's going to bring new energy and new vitality to the business."
Sheila Wellington, president of Catalyst, a nonprofit New York group that monitors the treatment of women in the workplace, said that Ms. Jung's appointment was also "an indication that there are cracks in the glass ceiling."
"Any list of best companies for women would not be complete without Avon," she added.
Just the same, Ms. Wellington emphasized, that ceiling "was not shattered and lying on the floor in executive suites across the country."
Investors certainly endorsed the change, with the company's shares rising $2.125 yesterday, to $31.75.
Though Avon has long enjoyed a reputation of career opportunities for women and though its board includes several, the company came under criticism when Mr. Perrin took over because of the number of high-ranking insiders, most notably Ms. Jung, who were overlooked.
"Many times people don't want to take a risk on a woman," said Dee Soder, a managing director at the CEO Perspective Group, a New York executive advisory firm. "I think there was a bigger risk taking someone outside the industry."
Mr. Perrin, a former chief executive of Duracell International, the battery company, was never a good fit. When he arrived at Avon, Mr. Perrin acknowledged that not having direct selling experience was a drawback. But he said he was brought in to explore new sales strategies and to cut costs.
Mr. Perrin could not be reached for comment yesterday.
"Quite honestly, I just don't think he understood who he was marketing to," said Allan Mottus, a consultant to the beauty industry and publisher of The Informationist, a trade publication. On Mr. Perrin's watch, Avon confused its core customers by trying to become too upscale, he added. "Avon is not Fifth Avenue."
Mr. Perrin, though, may be taking the fall for some circumstances beyond his control. Like many consumer-products companies with substantial global operations, Avon was hurt by the collapse last year of many overseas economies. More important, the company has grappled with how to update its sales force to fit the needs of consumers in an age of e-commerce and working women.
Now it will be up to Ms. Jung to lead a makeover. Indeed, in many ways she is the epitome of the way the Avon customer has evolved from the days when many women were home during workday afternoons and Avon representatives dropped by with the newest shade of eye shadow or the latest flavor of lip gloss.
A working mother in a family of overachievers -- she is married to Michael Gould, chief executive of the Bloomingdales unit of Federated Department Stores -- Ms. Jung joined Avon in 1994 as a marketing executive. Before that, she was the executive vice president of Neiman Marcus responsible for women's intimate apparel, accessories and cosmetics.
A graduate of Princeton University, she also serves as a board member of General Electric.
While Ms. Jung, who is Chinese-American, said that the Avon board tapped her for her ability to "get the job done" to rejuvenate the business, she said she was keenly aware, and proud, of her responsibilities as a role model.
"I'm proud of my heritage and certainly my gender," Ms. Jung said. "I think it's a privilege being a minority woman leading a Fortune 250 company."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrea Jung, president of Avon Products, has been named chief executive, replacing Charles Perrin, who had been at the company less than 18 months.
 
Graph/Chart: "Turnover at the Top"
Avon Products, suffering lately from slowing sales and disappointing financial results, is about to get its third chief executive in less than two years. Graph plots Weekly closes of Avon's stock, except yesterday, from 1996 through 1999.
 
YESTERDAY: $31.75
Up $2.125
 
MAY 1997
Edward J. Robinson, president, steps down.
 
DEC. 1997
Charles Perrin selected over Andrea Jung and several others as next chief executive.
 
JULY 1998
Mr. Perrin takes over as chief executive as James E. Preston retires.
 
YESTERDAY
Mr. Perrin steps down; Ms. Jung named as chief executive of Avon.
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AVP (NYSE) (91%); GT (SWX) (69%); GT (NASDAQ) (69%); GT (BRU) (69%); WFC (NYSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (69%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (69%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (69%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (69%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: AVON PRODUCTS INC AVON PRODUCTS INC (91%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (69%); WELLS FARGO & CO (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AVON PRODUCTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS EXECUTIVES (94%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (76%); COSMETICS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); RUBBER & SILICONE (68%); TIRES (68%); 

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA; JUNG, ANDREA; PERRIN, CHARLES R ANDREA JUNG (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



103 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 33; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests;
Air Rudy

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS 

 BODY:
No sooner had the polling booth curtains stopped twitching in New York this week than Rudolph Giuliani took to the air upstate, with the first commercial of the 2000 U.S. Senate campaign. (The race still has no official entrants. But Mr. Giuliani has bought TV time and Hillary Clinton has bought a $1.7 million house, either of which is as good as an announcement as far as I'm concerned.)
The ad is a basic 30-second rundown of the mayor's achievements as mayor -- fought crime, increased jobs, etc. -- with shots of Mr. Giuliani and lots of happy New Yorkers. It's notable for only one thing. His euphoric constituents -- smiling, waving, walking their babies across the extremely safe streets -- all appear to be white. Closer inspection reveals a man who is possibly African-American working on the roof of a building far up in the air. 
 Mr. Giuliani says there's one shot of the Puerto Rican Day parade. He and his aides were busy all day yesterday pointing out possible minority New Yorker sightings in the footage. "In the shot of the Staten Island ferry, if you look to my left there's a woman who appears to be Hispanic," the mayor said. It was sort of a political version of "Where's Waldo?"
Nevertheless, to the casual observer the ad really does look as if the mayor of the nation's most wildly heterogeneous city was taking a bow for making things safe in Des Moines. It's not the most critical lapse in the history of modern politics, but it is peculiar. Mr. Giuliani's biggest problem as a mayor has been deflecting charges of racial insensitivity. One of his biggest challenges as a Senate candidate is to mollify black voters, at least to the point that they don't turn out in record numbers to vote against him. Why, then, would he introduce himself as a Senate candidate in a commercial that seems to have turned New York monochromatic?
There are several possible explanations:
* Thanks to the mayor's efforts stimulating the economy, black New Yorkers were too busy working at construction jobs to come down to the ground and pose for the camera.
* The Giuliani camp thinks this is what upstate voters would like to think New York City looks like.
* Whoever made the piece was just sloppy.
* The ad is a perfectly fine portrait of New York in all its glorious diversity, and anybody who thinks otherwise is a dreadful person.
Guess which answer the mayor likes.
"That's got to be your problem," he said, to a suggestion that there seemed to be something missing in the ad. Alerted by my question to an aide, Mr. Giuliani had called to discuss the errors in my thought process and point out the Latino woman on the ferry. It was a brief conversation, although Mr. Giuliani managed to squeeze in the terms "truly absurd," "a reach" and "kind of sick."
Did I mention that the other common criticism of this mayor involves a problem with accepting criticism?
"It's really sad that people look at the world this way," he continued, declining to be distracted from his theme of racial hypersensitivity. Bringing up the whole issue, he added, is an example of "a tired old stereotypical attack on Republicans."
That was a low blow. We're immersed in a presidential campaign that documents every single interaction between George W. Bush and minority voters in breathless detail. (Look, everybody! He's going to another black church!) The media are so excited about this Republican inclusionism that we fall into a swoon every time Mr. Bush says "Hola!"
But Rudy Giuliani isn't Mr. Bush. He's also probably not a political figure who needs any introduction to the voters upstate. The ad actually seems like a waste of money, since you can walk into a cornfield in Iowa and get somebody to tell you that New York City is a much better place these days, and identify who's responsible.
According to a recent New York Times poll, practically all the state's voters not only feel they know Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Giuliani, they've already made up their minds whom they're going to vote for. The election's still a year away, and the undecided-voter pool is vanishing. The way we're going now, the entire election will hinge on a retired appliance repairman in Cooperstown who thinks Jimmy Carter is still President and a couple of unemployed survivalists living near the Canadian border.
If they watch television, there's already an ad coming their way. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; TELEVISION; ADVERTISING; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; MINORITIES (US); BLACKS MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICS (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); CRIME RATES (70%); PARADES & MARCHES (68%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); FERRIES (51%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GAIL; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



104 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Drug Giants' Merger Deal Prompts Offer From Pfizer
Hours after executives of American Home Products and Warner-Lambert announced a $70 billion merger agreement, Pfizer attempted to break the deal up with a $82.4 billion hostile bid for Warner-Lambert. 
 Analysts who follow the pharmaceutical industry cautioned that a higher offer could yet emerge for Warner-Lambert, either from American Home or Pfizer or another drug company. Page A1.
 
Congress Approves Financial Bill
Congress approved legislation that opens the door for a new era on Wall Street in which commercial banks, securities houses and insurers will find it easier and cheaper to enter one another's businesses. The wide-ranging measure now goes to President Clinton, who is expected to sign it. A1.
 
Disney Posts Decline in Earnings
Walt Disney said that profits for its fourth quarter and full year fell sharply, hurt by slumping sales of home videos and Disney merchandise, and that its profit for the next year would be flat. Michael D. Eisner, Disney's chairman, said that he was shifting the company's emphasis away from adding new businesses and properties. Disney stock is down about a third from its 1998 high. C7.
 
Nasdaq Leads Main Gauges Higher
The Nasdaq composite index pushed further into record territory, but stocks generally pulled back from early-session gains. The Nasdaq gained 27.44 points, to 3,055.95. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 30.51 points, to 10,639.57. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 7.71 points, to 1,362.64. C7.
 
Treasury prices gained for the third consecutive day as the yield on the 30-year issue fell to 6.10 percent from 6.13 percent. C7.
 
Web Registration Rules Approved
The Internet's governing board approved terms for opening the network's address-registration businesses to full-scale competition, ending the six-year monopoly that had enriched Network Solutions. C2.
 
Bell Atlantic and GTE Name Team
Bell Atlantic and GTE, which are merging, announced a tentative senior executive team that, at least numerically, is drawn equally from Bell Atlantic and GTE. Executives from Bell Atlantic appeared to win the top operational and financial jobs while senior GTE executives will largely control staff functions that have less effect on the combined company's quarter-to-quarter financial results. Last year, the companies announced that Charles R. Lee, GTE's chairman, and Ivan G. Seidenberg, above, Bell Atlantic's chairman, would split the job of chief executive. Mr. Seidenberg is set to become the sole chief executive in 2002. C5.
 
Big Investment Seen for Teligent
A group including Microsoft and Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst is close to a deal to invest $500 million in Teligent, which uses wireless technology to provide business customers with communications services. C7.
 
Interest Rates Raised in Europe
The European Central Bank raised interest rates for the first time in its short history, to 3 percent from 2.5 percent. C4.
 
Organization for Blind Sues AOL
Arguing that online spaces must be as accessible as physical ones are to people with disabilities, a group representing the blind sued America Online, saying the online service is almost impossible for blind people to use. A25.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,639.57 up 30.51
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.10% down 0.03
The euro -- $1.038 yen down 0.01
The dollar -- 104.93 yen down 0.02
 
Graphs: "TODAY" plots unemployment, from April through Sept., and consumer borrowing, from March through August.
 
Unemployment
October figures due today. Expected: 4.2%
 
Consumer Borrowing
September figures due today. Expected: $6.8 billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%); DIS (NYSE) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (60%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (60%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (92%); WALT DISNEY CO (84%); HM CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (60%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MERGERS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); INSURANCE (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); BOND MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (62%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: IVAN SEIDENBERG (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



105 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS PASSES WIDE-RANGING BILL EASING BANK LAWS

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Congress approved landmark legislation today that opens the door for a new era on Wall Street in which commercial banks, securities houses and insurers will find it easier and cheaper to enter one another's businesses.
The measure, considered by many the most important banking legislation in 66 years, was approved in the Senate by a vote of 90 to 8 and in the House tonight by 362 to 57. The bill will now be sent to the president, who is expected to sign it, aides said. It would become one of the most significant achievements this year by the White House and the Republicans leading the 106th Congress. 
 "Today Congress voted to update the rules that have governed financial services since the Great Depression and replace them with a system for the 21st century," Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers said. "This historic legislation will better enable American companies to compete in the new economy."
The decision to repeal the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 provoked dire warnings from a handful of dissenters that the deregulation of Wall Street would someday wreak havoc on the nation's financial system. The original idea behind Glass-Steagall was that separation between bankers and brokers would reduce the potential conflicts of interest that were thought to have contributed to the speculative stock frenzy before the Depression.
Today's action followed a rich Congressional debate about the history of finance in America in this century, the causes of the banking crisis of the 1930's, the globalization of banking and the future of the nation's economy.
Administration officials and many Republicans and Democrats said the measure would save consumers billions of dollars and was necessary to keep up with trends in both domestic and international banking. Some institutions, like Citigroup, already have banking, insurance and securities arms but could have been forced to divest their insurance underwriting under existing law. Many foreign banks already enjoy the ability to enter the securities and insurance industries.
"The world changes, and we have to change with it," said Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, who wrote the law that will bear his name along with the two other main Republican sponsors, Representative Jim Leach of Iowa and Representative Thomas J. Bliley Jr. of Virginia. "We have a new century coming, and we have an opportunity to dominate that century the same way we dominated this century. Glass-Steagall, in the midst of the Great Depression, came at a time when the thinking was that the government was the answer. In this era of economic prosperity, we have decided that freedom is the answer."
In the House debate, Mr. Leach said, "This is a historic day. The landscape for delivery of financial services will now surely shift."
But consumer groups and civil rights advocates criticized the legislation for being a sop to the nation's biggest financial institutions. They say that it fails to protect the privacy interests of consumers and community lending standards for the disadvantaged and that it will create more problems than it solves.
The opponents of the measure gloomily predicted that by unshackling banks and enabling them to move more freely into new kinds of financial activities, the new law could lead to an economic crisis down the road when the marketplace is no longer growing briskly.
"I think we will look back in 10 years' time and say we should not have done this but we did because we forgot the lessons of the past, and that that which is true in the 1930's is true in 2010," said Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota. "I wasn't around during the 1930's or the debate over Glass-Steagall. But I was here in the early 1980's when it was decided to allow the expansion of savings and loans. We have now decided in the name of modernization to forget the lessons of the past, of safety and of soundness."
Senator Paul Wellstone, Democrat of Minnesota, said that Congress had "seemed determined to unlearn the lessons from our past mistakes."
"Scores of banks failed in the Great Depression as a result of unsound banking practices, and their failure only deepened the crisis," Mr. Wellstone said. "Glass-Steagall was intended to protect our financial system by insulating commercial banking from other forms of risk. It was one of several stabilizers designed to keep a similar tragedy from recurring. Now Congress is about to repeal that economic stabilizer without putting any comparable safeguard in its place."
Supporters of the legislation rejected those arguments. They responded that historians and economists have concluded that the Glass-Steagall Act was not the correct response to the banking crisis because it was the failure of the Federal Reserve in carrying out monetary policy, not speculation in the stock market, that caused the collapse of 11,000 banks. If anything, the supporters said, the new law will give financial companies the ability to diversify and therefore reduce their risks. The new law, they said, will also give regulators new tools to supervise shaky institutions.
"The concerns that we will have a meltdown like 1929 are dramatically overblown," said Senator Bob Kerrey, Democrat of Nebraska.
Others said the legislation was essential for the future leadership of the American banking system.
"If we don't pass this bill, we could find London or Frankfurt or years down the road Shanghai becoming the financial capital of the world," said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. "There are many reasons for this bill, but first and foremost is to ensure that U.S. financial firms remain competitive."
But other lawmakers criticized the provisions of the legislation aimed at discouraging community groups from pressing banks to make more loans to the disadvantaged. Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, said during the House debate that the legislation was "mean-spirited in the way it had tried to undermine the Community Reinvestment Act." And Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, said it was ironic that while the legislation was deregulating financial services, it had begun a new system of onerous regulation on community advocates.
Many experts predict that, even though the legislation has been trailing market trends that have begun to see the cross-ownership of banks, securities firms and insurers, the new law is certain to lead to a wave of large financial mergers.
The White House has estimated the legislation could save consumers as much as $18 billion a year as new financial conglomerates gain economies of scale and cut costs.
Other experts have disputed those estimates as overly optimistic, and said that the bulk of any profits seen from the deregulation of financial services would be returned not to customers but to shareholders.
These are some of the key provisions of the legislation:
*Banks will be able to affiliate with insurance companies and securities concerns with far fewer restrictions than in the past.
*The legislation preserves the regulatory structure in Washington and gives the Federal Reserve and the Office of Comptroller of the Currency roles in regulating new financial conglomerates. The Securities and Exchange Commission will oversee securities operations at any bank, and the states will continue to regulate insurance.
*It will be more difficult for industrial companies to control a bank. The measure closes a loophole that had permitted a number of commercial enterprises to open savings associations known as unitary thrifts.
One Republican Senator, Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, voted against the legislation. He was joined by seven Democrats: Barbara Boxer of California, Richard H. Bryan of Nevada, Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin, Tom Harkin of Iowa, Barbara A. Mikulski of Maryland, Mr. Dorgan and Mr. Wellstone.
In the House, 155 Democrats and 207 Republicans voted for the measure, while 51 Democrats, 5 Republicans and 1 independent opposed it. Fifteen members did not vote.
Tucked away in the legislation is a provision that some experts today warned could cost insurance policyholders as much as $50 billion. The provision would allow mutual insurance companies to move to other states to avoid payments they would otherwise owe policyholders as they reorganize their corporate structure. Many states, including New York and New Jersey, do not allow such relocations without the consent of the insurer's domicile state. But the legislation before Congress would pre-empt the states.
Both the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and the Prudential Life Insurance Company are in the midst of reorganizing into stock-based corporations that are requiring them to pay billions of dollars to policyholders from years of accumulated surplus. In exchange, the policyholders give up their ownership in the mutual insurance company.
The legislation would permit any mutual insurance company to avoid making surplus payments to policyholders by simply moving to states with more permissive laws and setting up a hybrid corporate structure known as a mutual holding company.
The provision was inserted by Representative Bliley at the urging of a trade association. It attracted little opposition because it was attached to a provision that forbids insurers from discriminating against domestic-violence victims.
In a letter sent to Congress this week, Mr. Summers said that the provision "could allow insurance companies to avoid state law protecting policyholders, enriching insiders at the expense of consumers."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STOCKS AND BONDS; INSURANCE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY BANKING LAW (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); DEREGULATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSURANCE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (79%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); BANK FAILURES (73%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (68%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (58%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN PHIL GRAMM (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



106 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: In Newark and Hartford, Clinton Says Cities Are Untapped Markets

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 4

 BODY:
As President Clinton toured a struggling Newark high school and a slowly recovering Hartford neighborhood to announce a series of corporate investments in impoverished cities, the White House and the speaker of the House, J. Dennis Hastert, reached a bipartisan agreement to merge their anti-poverty programs.
The agreement, described by Mr. Hastert in an interview and by Mr. Clinton's aides as he traveled the Northeast with executives, the Rev. Jesse Jackson and basketball stars, is expected to be announced by Mr. Clinton and Mr. Hastert on Friday in a low-income Chicago neighborhood. But it is likely to yield little fruit until Mr. Clinton is out of office -- the two men agreed on a set of principles and left the specifics and the financing to next year's budget debates. 
 Nonetheless, in the bitter atmosphere prevailing in Washington, the pact may be remarkable simply for the fact that the two agreed on anything. Mr. Clinton's aides said they had little chance of getting corporate America to sign on to any program that did not have bipartisan support, and Mr. Hastert appeared to be trying to inoculate the Republicans against renewed charges by House Democrats who say the Congressional leaders are as extreme as the former speaker, Newt Gingrich, when he first led the Republican revolution in the House.
The agreement would essentially merge relatively small-scale proposals that differ in specifics but share the goal of spreading a remarkable era of prosperity more evenly. It is a delicate political problem: Both in Newark and Harford today, Mr. Clinton tried to walk the line between acknowledging that many Americans have been left out of the boom while promoting "New Markets" in some of the country's oldest cities. It proved a hard sell.
Mr. Clinton's audience of students this morning at Malcolm X Shabbazz High School in Newark gave the president a rousing cheer -- "No one comes here," one student said from the bleachers -- but they quickly appeared restless and more than a bit bored by the stream of announcements of investment projects and tax incentives for small businesses and entrepreneurs.
The students immediately perked up at the appearance of Jayson Williams and other stars of the New Jersey Nets, as Mr. Clinton hailed the team's decision to put 35 percent of its profits into scholarships, basketball leagues and programs to clean up parks.
Mr. Williams told the audience that the students who performed the most hours of community service could "come to my house and party hard," an incentive that drew far more rousing cheers than Mr. Clinton's efforts to urge Congress to pass a new tax credit.
The credit is one of a cocktail of modest government programs -- most of which are still tied up in Congressional budget battles -- that Mr. Clinton has argued are needed to bring down urban unemployment.
Several of Mr. Clinton's programs are based on modestly successful administration efforts to encourage American investment abroad, chiefly to open new export markets. Much as he did in July in visits to Indian reservations, the Mississippi Delta and Los Angeles, Mr. Clinton made the case that the last untapped markets are in poor urban areas.
"What I want to do in passing this program," Mr. Clinton said in Newark, "is nothing more or less than to give American business people and other investors the same incentives to invest in the poorer communities of American that we give them today to invest in the poorer communities of South America or Africa or Asia."
Later in the day in Hartford, he used the backdrop of a new arts education center to make the case that he is devoting the last year of his presidency to "keeping this magic economic moment going."
But so far the programs he has described are tiny by most economic measures. All the big numbers thrown around today have more to do with boardroom decisions than White House decisions. "That does not mean that government programs are useless," Mr. Clinton's chief economic adviser, Gene Sperling, said earlier this week. "Sometimes you need to give things a shove. The leverage comes from the kind of incentives we are creating here."
In Hartford, President Clinton toured El Mercado, an indoor Hispanic marketplace where he had campaigned in 1992, and then joined insurance executives and Connecticut's Republican governor, John G. Rowland, at the Artists Collective, the new arts center. There he announced that local corporations were spending nearly $200 million to redevelop the city. He called it "one of the most impressive commitments" to new markets in any city.
He singled out Citigroup for its $7.4 million commitment of equity and debt capital to build 70 homes in the Frog Hollow neighborhood (though he pronounced it "holler"). And he thanked Richard L. Huber, chairman and chief executive of Aetna, for joining him on both his July and November "new markets" tours of disadvantaged communities.
"It is the morally responsible thing to do for the business leaders of this community and this state and this nation to invest in these places," Mr. Clinton told a crowd of about 150 people. "It's also the economically smart thing to do. It is a magic moment, and we dare not let it pass us by."
Hartford is a classic example of a city that has seen prosperity pass it by: While Boston and New York have boomed, thousands of insurance and aerospace jobs have been wiped out here, and there has been relatively little new industry to replace it.
A portion of the new $200 million in private investments Mr. Clinton announced here today will go toward redeveloping the downtown, particularly through the $1.3 billion Adriaen's Landing project, which would include a domed stadium, a convention center and new retail stores adjacent to the newly refurbished banks of the Connecticut River. The state has pledged $455 million to the project, provided the project can attract $210 million in private investment.
Larry Charles Sr., executive director of One/Chance, a neighborhood economic development group, said he hoped that permanent jobs from the new initiatives would reach residents of struggling neighborhoods.
"I have some concerns about how the table is set in this process," he said. "I am concerned about the extent to which neighborhood voices are part of the overall planning process."
Mr. Clinton, meanwhile, was working to make sure this initiative did not suffer the fate of many others he has proposed: becoming grist for partisan warfare. In July, he first broached Mr. Hastert with a proposal to merge Democratic and Republican initiatives for cities.
In an interview on Capitol Hill today, Mr. Hastert said that he and President Clinton had agreed to work together to try to come up with a bipartisan strategy to bring new markets and new capital to the impoverished parts of the nation. And if the Congressional schedule allowed, Mr. Hastert said, he would fly to Chicago on Friday to join the president in the tour.
"It's something that I know needs to be worked on," Mr. Hastert said. "The president has an initiative fairly close to ours, so we made a commitment to work together." He said the two wanted to address environmental cleanup and "try to get people working together so that people can have some individual enterprise in these communities and try to build those communities back."
Mr. Hastert said the two men had not agreed to any legislation, only on goals. His aides said the White House and speaker's staff had worked out a five-point joint statement of "shared commitment to empower America's impoverished communities." In it the administration and Congress pledge to "work in a spirit of good faith to develop a bipartisan effort" to bring capital to impoverished areas of the country.
The draft says that since solutions need to come from within the communities "both political parties need to put aside politics and ideological constraints and participate in a process that focuses on solutions that can work in those communities without being subject to waste or abuse."
The Republican plan was first sponsored by Representative J. C. Watts, an Oklahoma Republican, and James M. Talent, a Missouri Republican, for up to 100 "renewal communities."
It is essentially a tax reduction plan under which there is zero capital gains tax for the sale of any business or partnership inside a renewal community -- a portion of the program White House officials still oppose -- and a wage credit for companies hiring workers from the community and a commercial revitalization credit for those who renovate nonresidential buildings in such communities.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton had Jayson Williams and other members of the New Jersey Nets at his side yesterday during a visit to a Newark high school to call for increased business investment in poor city neighborhoods. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); MERGERS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JESSE JACKSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



107 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Giving In on Foreign Aid Bill, G.O.P. Finds an Election Issue

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The White House and Congress agreed tonight to cut a deal on a foreign aid bill, adding $799 million more than Republicans wanted to spend, Congressional aides said.
But in the battle, Republican leaders see a golden opportunity to paint Democrats as more concerned about helping foreigners than protecting Social Security. 
 For two days, the Republicans held up the foreign aid bill -- and with it, the battle over the budget, in which 5 of the year's 13 spending bills remain unsigned -- arguing over the desire of the White House to spend $370 million to ease the debts of 41 impoverished nations, mostly in Africa.
Mr. Clinton has said the aid will "enable the world's poorest and most heavily indebted countries to finance health, education and opportunity programs."
The House majority whip, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, calls it an effort to "rob the Social Security surplus to underwrite the national debt of Nepal."
And aides to Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and Mr. DeLay say Democrats want to spend money on foreign aid that would come from the Social Security surplus, which both parties have sworn to protect. The aides said the Republican leaders thought that argument could be instrumental in helping Republicans keep control of Congress in the 2000 elections.
One aide said it boiled down to this: "Ghana versus Grandma."
The aides said the Republicans would paint the Democrats as willing to put foreign potentates before aging Americans. "All they want," Representative Harold Rogers, Republican of Kentucky, said on the House floor today, "is to give the taxpayers' money away to foreign countries and be damned what happens at home."
The Republicans' tactics became clear during tense talks between Congress and the White House.
The bill passed by the Republican Congress contained $12.7 billion, 14 percent less than Mr. Clinton's request. On Oct. 18, he vetoed it, calling it "another sign of the new isolationism that would have America bury its head in the sand at the height of our power and prosperity."
The negotiators went into closed-door conference in Mr. Hastert's office on Wednesday night thinking they might make a deal. They did not. A serious sticking point developed: debt relief for foreign nations.
The President wanted $370 million, about $1.20 per American, to help the 41 nations identified by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund as "heavily indebted" lighten the burden of their poverty. Thirty-three of those nations, including Ghana, are in Africa.
But the Republicans held the line on debt relief at $123 million. This quarter-billion dollar difference was the biggest barrier to completing the bill. Tonight, a senior Republican aide said they had won that argument.
In the end, the Republicans agreed to a White House proposal to add $799 million to their $12.7 billion bill. The major increases were $170 million in economic support funds, $150 million for international development assistance, $104 million for nuclear-security programs in the former Soviet Union, and $75 million for peacekeeping operations in Kosovo. They earlier agreed to spend $1.8 billion over three years to underwrite Israeli-Palestinian peace accords.
Now the White House and Congress will move on to negotiations over four more bills, financing the Departments of Commerce, Justice, State, Interior, and Housing and Urban Development and federal money for the District of Columbia. They set a new deadline tonight: Wednesday.
The Republican leaders, including Mr. Hastert, voiced unhappiness at having had to add nearly $2.6 billion to the foreign aid bill, which will now have to pass the House and Senate. And Republicans said the argument over foreign aid versus Social Security would be a main campaign theme in 2000.
There will be rebuttals. For example, it could be said that the Republican-written spending bills dip by more than $17 million into Social Security. Since money comes from the same pot, any program can be identified as the one that used Social Security money. Opponents of more military spending, for example, point out that Congress increased Pentagon spending by $17 billion.
Mr. DeLay's view of debt relief -- he calls it "American taxpayer dollars sent overseas to subsidize the corruption and mismanagement of foreign countries" -- resonates with many Republicans.
But not all. Pat Robertson, the founder of the Christian Coalition and a former Republican presidential candidate, supports debt relief. So do Pope John Paul II, the World Bank and most of the world's aid agencies.
"The debt-relief initiative sends our tax dollars to make sure children are educated and vaccinated, and there are roads to get farmers' goods to markets," said Seth Amgott, spokesman for Oxfam, a worldwide antipoverty agency. "An American contribution to that effort is entirely worthy and eminently affordable." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GHANA (92%); AFRICA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (94%); THE WHITE HOUSE&CONGRESS (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (94%); THE WHITE HOUSE&CONGRESS (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); GHANA (92%); AFRICA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (94%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); VETO (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); AGING TRENDS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); DEBTOR NATIONS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT (75%); AGING (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM HAROLD ROGERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



108 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 22;Column 4;National Desk

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Freight Strike a Test of Hoffa's Mettle

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: MOONACHIE, N.J., Nov. 4

 BODY:
At daybreak today, Ernie Soehl, a gruff-voiced fireplug of a man, was already yelling orders to the picket line of teamsters just north of Giants Stadium.
Wearing black nylon teamster jackets that glowed in the passing headlights, the pickets had massed, placards in hand, outside the Overnite Transportation Company's truck terminal, to further James P. Hoffa's crusade to stop the decline in the teamsters' freight division, which his father once built into a swaggering symbol of union might. 
 Mr. Soehl, vice president of a New Jersey local, told the assembled protesters to fan out in twos and threes, follow Overnite trucks throughout North Jersey and set up picket lines wherever they made deliveries, to pressure Overnite's customers to turn to other trucking companies.
For 12 days now, since the International Brotherhood of Teamsters began a nationwide strike against Overnite, the union and the company, one of the nation's largest nonunion shipping concerns, have played cat and mouse.
The confrontation is far more than a game. It is an effort by Mr. Hoffa, who assumed the union's presidency last spring, to step out of his father's shadow and prove his mettle as a union leader. In addition, the walkout, supported by unions across the nation, has become a high-stakes effort to show that it is possible to win union recognition and a contract from one of the country's most vehemently antiunion companies.
"Hoffa has staked his future on winning this fight," said John Schulz, associate editor of Trucking World, a trade magazine. "The teamsters have not organized a freight company of any magnitude since 1980. This would be a crown jewel. This one dwarfs them all."
Mr. Hoffa says he is standing up to the nation's worst labor-law violator, a company against which the teamsters have filed more than 1,000 charges with the National Labor Relations Board, accusing Overnite of illegally firing and retaliating against scores of union supporters. One of the strike's chief goals, Mr. Hoffa said, is to force Overnite, with 8,200 drivers and loading-dock workers, to stop such unfair labor practices. The company denies engaging in any illegal practices.
So far, in what looks as if it could become a war of attrition, both sides are claiming the upper hand. The union insists that Overnite will surrender, saying the strike has cut its business by 30 percent at a time the industry is booming. Overnite officials say the company is making deliveries on schedule and that business is down just 3 percent.
Teamster officials say they have pickets at 140 of Overnite's 166 terminals; many of the pickets are teamsters who do not work for Overnite. The company says there are pickets at just 30 terminals.
Ira Rosenfeld, an Overnite spokesman, said, "As far as we're concerned it's a normal situation."
Mr. Soehl called the company's assertions poppycock, saying workers in Overnight's Moonachie terminal had told them shipments were down by at least one-third.
"We're going to keep up this fight until it's done, whether it lasts a week or a year," Mr. Soehl said.
Teamster officials acknowledge that the stakes are high. It is the union's biggest showdown since the 1997 United Parcel Service strike, and it is an effort by Mr. Hoffa to succeed in a fight in which the predecessor he detested, Ron Carey, failed.
After five years of trying, the union says it represents 3,600 workers at 37 of Overnite's terminals, although the company argues that because of legal challenges, the union represents only 1,800 at 22 places. The union says it has made so little headway because of intimidation, while Overnite executives offer another reason: most workers do not want a union. Overnite will soon pay its drivers $17.75 an hour, up from $17. Unionized drivers earn $19 an hour, and their fringe benefits are considerably better than Overnite's.
Mr. Hoffa's father, James R. Hoffa, the teamsters' president from 1957 to 1971, built the union's freight division to more than 400,000 workers, representing more than 60 percent of the nation's truck drivers. But after deregulation sent many unionized companies into bankruptcy, only 20 percent of the nation's truck drivers are now unionized.
With this strike, the younger Hoffa is trying to turn that around.
"If teamster market share in trucking continues to fall, we lose power, the bargaining power to win the contracts our members deserve and expect," Mr. Hoffa said in a recent speech to Overnite workers.
Mr. Hoffa's hard-line stance has surprised many labor experts.
"The Hoffa administration has been rather militant when a lot of people expected it to roll over and play dead or roll over and make deals with the bosses," said Michael Belzer, a trucking industry expert at the University of Michigan.
Some industry experts predict that Overnite will win because a company information campaign has turned many workers against the union and because so few of Overnite's workers are on strike. The union says nearly one-fourth are on strike, while the company says just one-tenth.
But other experts predict that the union can outlast the company because the strike will cut into Overnite's important Christmas business and because a low unemployment rate will make it easy for strikers to find jobs during the walkout.
Shortly after 7 a.m. today, Pete Brown, the president of Teamsters Local 560, was following Mr. Soehl's instructions and driving along North Jersey roads, tailing an Overnite truck that eventually stopped at a Samsung warehouse in Secaucus. Mr. Brown stood outside, holding a picket sign..
The driver whom Mr. Brown followed, Robert Link, was pro-union.
"Overnite is a romper room with favoritism galore," Mr. Link said, adding that union supporters often faced retaliation. "The question is, why don't they want to sit down and sign a contract instead of spending millions on overpriced lawyers to fight the union?"
Mr. Rosenfeld, the Overnite spokesman, later responded: "We have been bargaining in good faith. We've told the union all along we can not sign a contract that makes us noncompetitive." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a Teamsters strike against the Overnite Transportation Company misstated the affiliation of John Schulz, who commented on the effect on James P. Hoffa's reputation. Mr. Schulz is associate editor of Traffic World magazine, not Trucking World.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (84%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UPS FREIGHT (84%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. STRIKES (90%); TRUCKING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); 

PERSON: JAMES P HOFFA (96%); ERNIE SOEHL (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1999



109 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Looking for the Senator From All of New York

BYLINE: By George Gates; George Gates is a former editorial writer for The Buffalo News.

DATELINE: BUFFALO

 BODY:
In a New York Times/CBS News poll reported this week, 4 out of 10 New Yorkers said they didn't think Hillary Rodham Clinton knew New York well enough to represent it effectively. But if Mrs. Clinton comes to the Senate race as a carpetbagger, can her likely opponent claim that his career in New York City makes him any more representative of a state that isn't all skyscrapers and investment bankers? From upstate, Rudolph Giuliani looks like a carpetbagger, too.
The mayor's new upstate advertising, filled with metropolitan scenes, shows no awareness that from Buffalo to Plattsburgh and Binghamton to Massena, people seldom forget that New York is really two states, welded together by circumstances long forgotten. There's a widely held suspicion up here that metropolitan New Yorkers consider upstaters -- when they consider us at all -- a bunch of small-timers perpetually behind the curve. And for many upstaters, New York City is too busy, too noisy, too dirty, too much. 
 There is a good deal of parochialism in both camps. And a big campaign test for both Mr. Giuliani and Mrs. Clinton will be how nimbly they can move between them.
In politics, the greater population in New York City and its suburbs weighs against upstate. The 1990 Census counted 1.2 million people in the Buffalo-Niagara Falls region, more than the population of 11 states. But the last governor from the region was Grover Cleveland, and the last United States senator was James M. Mead, elected in 1938.
All too often, statewide elections offer upstaters only a selection of politicians from New York City and environs. Some of them seem lost when they arrive here to campaign. One gubernatorial hopeful babbled in Buffalo about "your airport" in Albany, more than 300 miles to the east. Pierre Rinfret, the loser to Mario Cuomo in the 1990 gubernatorial race, showed up talking about the high tolls on the Triborough Bridge.
Mayor Giuliani can talk about his successes against crime and corruption, but his city's violence and scandals seem as distant here as Chicago's or Houston's. What people will most want to hear are plans for stimulating a long-stagnant economy locked in a depressing pattern of business decline and shrinking population -- the famous boom never made it upstate. Just this week vows of revitalization, the perennial No. 1 campaign promise here, helped a Republican challenger defeat Erie County's three-term Democratic executive.
Mayor Giuliani may feel he's created a lot of exciting jobs in new industries in New York City, but this may only sharpen our unhappiness that our young people often have little choice but to leave for better opportunities elsewhere.
Mr. Giuliani has discovered one upstate issue. In August, while visiting near Binghamton, he let it be known that he had changed his mind and would support federal legislation letting New York into the Northeast dairy compact. Supporters see this pricing arrangement as a way to bring more money into the hands of the state's many dairy farmers, thereby aiding rural economies that need every nickel they can get.
Another issue may be harder for the mayor to maneuver around. He has set 2002 as the time to close the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island. Several small upstate communities fear the landfill proposals they have been fighting could be pushed into reality by all that suddenly homeless garbage. One of the places is called -- sure enough -- Farmersville. A landfill there would forever scar its quiet and beautiful hills.
Mrs. Clinton's "listening tour" west of the Hudson, though it was criticized downstate as flaunting her ignorance, was shrewd packaging. For upstaters, it was a welcome contrast to the visits from politicians who don't even know they are out of touch. Mr. Giuliani can listen, too, and a significant segment of next year's vote may depend on which of these adversaries has the best listening skills.
So let Mr. Giuliani of Manhattan and Mrs. Clinton of Little Rock make their visits and give us their sales pitches. Apparently we'll have to buy from one of them, carpetbags notwithstanding. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CBS CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (74%); SCANDALS (72%); CENSUS (68%); CORRUPTION (61%); 

PERSON: GATES, GEORGE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



110 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO FALLS. The euro fell against the dollar after the government's jobs report showed the American economy continuing to grow with little sign of inflation. In New York the euro slipped to $1.0377 from 1.0419 on Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



111 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Pace of U.S. Consumer Borrowing Slows

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
United States consumers slowed their pace of borrowing in September, ringing up credit-card debt at less than half the pace they did in the previous month, Federal Reserve figures showed today.
Borrowing rose by $5.9 billion in September to a total of $1.37 trillion. The increase was slower than the $6.8 billion expected by analysts and follows an increase of $7.1 billion in August. The Fed originally reported August borrowing had risen $10.8 billion, a seven-month high. 
 Debt from credit cards and revolving charge accounts rose $1.1 billion after a gain of $2.3 billion in August. The September increase in revolving credit was at the slowest pace since March. The increase in overall debt was the smallest since it rose $5.6 billion in June.
Analysts said people may have spent at a slower pace to prepare for Christmas spending.
The September increase in borrowing means debt grew at an annual rate of 5.2 percent, compared with 6.3 percent in August and 5.4 percent for all of 1998. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY PERSONAL DEBT (92%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATISTICS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); CHRISTMAS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



112 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Overseas Money Flows In, Lifting Latin Stock Markets

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Buoyed by fresh inflows of overseas investment money, stock markets in Latin America are staging a rally that could presage a return to economic growth in many of the region's countries next year.
Over the last few weeks, market indexes in the region have soared. The Bovespa on the Sao Paulo stock exchange, Latin America's largest stock market, has soared to a six-month high. In Mexico, the bolsa index reached a three-month high. On the coattails of these markets, stocks in Argentina, Chile and Colombia registered healthy gains. 
 Much of the rally has been fueled by relief over potential interest rate increases in the United States, as recent economic reports have led some investors to believe that only one increase in rates, instead of several, is likely in coming months. Lower interest rates in the United States, Latin America's biggest source of investment, translates into more money available for purchases of stocks in the region.
A growing consensus that Latin America is positioned for a revival of economic growth next year is also encouraging investors to increase their stock holdings.
The recovery of some commodities prices, healthy demand for Latin American exports in rich industrialized nations and political and economic developments in countries like Mexico have led analysts like Geoffrey Dennis of Salomon Smith Barney to predict 3.2 percent growth for the region as a whole next year, compared with a four-tenths of 1 percent contraction in 1999.
"Investors are lifting the veil from a period in which Latin America was oversold," said Edmar Bacha, the New York-based strategist for Banco BBA Creditanstalt. "What they're seeing, minus the threat of higher Fed rates, is a region looking a lot better next year than this year."
One of the best examples of this is Chile, a nation that was hit hard by the economic crisis suffered by some of its trading partners.
Helped by lower domestic interest rates and a recovery in the price of copper, Chile's economy is expected to grow 5.5 percent in 2000, compared with a shrinkage of half a percent this year. And coming presidential elections are not viewed as risky, since the two leading candidates are pledging a similar blend of centrist economic policies, said Neil Dougall of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
In Mexico, politics is also generating optimism, with concern easing over possible disruptions resulting from primary presidential elections. And strong growth in the United States, Mexico's main export market, contributes to positive sentiment over the economy, which is increasingly viewed by economists as more linked to its northern neighbors than to the rest of Latin America.
Yet while prospects look better in countries like Chile and Mexico, it is in Brazil, Latin America's biggest economy, where most attention is focused. So perhaps it is no small wonder that the rally lifting most Latin markets is nowhere as significant as it is here.
Two weeks ago, Brazil's currency, the real, was being hammered as speculators who had been betting on weakness pushed it beyond two to the dollar for the first time in eight months. As alarm grew over the real's decline, Brazil successfully sought greater flexibility to defend the currency by using money from the International Monetary Fund, which has oversight over such matters because it is financing an economic aid package to the country. The real began to strengthen.
"All of a sudden there was much less pressure on the bank to raise rates to attract foreign capital," said Carlos Novis Guimaraes, head of Latin American investment banking at Lehman Brothers.
With the likelihood larger that Brazil might lower rates rather than raise them, a fresh assessment emerged.
Corporate profits, like those from eucalyptus producers benefiting from higher pulp prices and banks prospering from prescient investment strategies, suggested an economic recovery stronger than once thought. Most analysts are predicting Brazil's economy will grow 3 percent in 2000, compared with zero percent expected this year.
Still, investors remain cautious about the potential for rebound in Brazil and the rest of Latin America.
While shocks such as Ecuador's moratorium on foreign bonds seem to have been absorbed without causing much damage to investor sentiment, other factors lead some investors to remain wary.
For instance, interest rate increases abroad, like those announced on Thursday by the European Central Bank and the Bank of England, could undermine Latin America's stock rally. Reticence by Brazil's Congress to approve Government proposals to simplify the tax system and trim pension spending may also raise a red flag.
Nevertheless, an important shift in sentiment seems to be taking place. "It appears that global risk aversion is lowering after the collapses predicted by some people never materialized," said Ernest Brown, senior Latin America economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Latin Comeback"
Stock markets in Latin America are on the rise, fueled by overseas investment money. Graphs plot Argentina's merval index, Mexico's bolsa index and Brazil's bovespa index, since Jan. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NQE (AMEX) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (80%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (80%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (95%); BRAZIL (95%); MEXICO (95%); CHILE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%); 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (80%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (95%); BRAZIL (95%); MEXICO (95%); CHILE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; LATIN AMERICA STOCK INDEXES (93%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BONDS (73%); EXPORT PRICES (71%); POLITICS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



113 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
World Trade Group's Leader Says Discord Threatens Talks

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: GENEVA, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Frustrated by the World Trade Organization's apparent inability to agree on an agenda for its meeting barely three weeks away, the leader of the group has warned the 134 member countries that the meeting could end in failure.
In a surprisingly blunt letter released today, Mike Moore, director general of the organization, said the preparations for the meeting in Seattle were caught in a "vicious circle." 
 Success of the talks in helping break down resilient barriers to global commerce is critical to the credibility of Mr. Moore, a New Zealander who took over as the group's top official only two months ago.
Mr. Moore said in the letter that whatever progress had been made on an agenda was "far from sufficient." He urged member countries to give their representatives more flexibility to compromise on disputes delaying the agenda for the four-day meeting that starts on Nov. 30.
The letter, dated Thursday, was written on the eve of the trade group's deadline of today to complete the agenda. That deadline was not met, and another had not been set by tonight.
"The very short time remaining before the Seattle conference, and the magnitude of the continuing divergences in positions, means the preparatory process is at a critical point," Mr. Moore wrote to Ali Said Mchumo, Tanzania's trade ambassador, who is chairman of the trade group's decision-making council.
Negotiations have bogged down in serious differences among countries, particularly on the issue of agricultural subsidies that protect farmers from foreign competition.
The disputes over agricultural issues have boiled down to a test of wills pitting one bloc composed of the 15-nation European Union and Japan, South Korea, Norway and Switzerland, all of which have highly subsidized farming, against a second bloc comprising the big farm produce-exporting countries, including the United States.
Besides the disagreement over agriculture, the agenda negotiations are stalled by disputes over whether the fulfillment of some previous trade agreements should be on the agenda. Developing nations want delays in carrying these out, contending they need more time to fulfill complex agreements like those on safeguards for intellectual property rights. Developed countries oppose putting such requests on the agenda, saying they reopen issues that have already been resolved.
In the letter, Mr. Moore said he strongly believed "that unless governments give their delegations in Geneva additional flexibility necessary to reach acceptable and balanced compromises, we risk not being able to progress significantly." A 32-page draft of the agenda has not been changed since a high-level meeting of trade group representatives last week.
In his letter, Mr. Moore said he was appealing "through you to member governments to undertake without delay a review of their instructions to their negotiators in Geneva in order to break out of what could otherwise become a vicious circle."
Mr. Moore released the letter, his spokesman said, because "once you hand it over to delegates, it will get around."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURE (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (60%); 

PERSON: MOORE, MIKE MIKE MOORE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



114 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Compromise Bill for $13.5 Billion in Foreign Aid

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
The House overwhelmingly approved a compromise foreign aid bill today, but some allied governments and international aid workers expressed disappointment at the debt relief for poor countries.
By a vote of 316 to 100, lawmakers agreed to an aid package negotiated by the White House and Congress on Thursday that added $799 million more than Republicans wanted to spend on matters like peacekeeping in Kosovo, nuclear security in Russia and cancellation of poor nations' debts, mostly in Africa. 
 The $13.5 billion measure will advance next week to the Senate, where approval is expected.
President Clinton said the bill "meets our commitments" in key policy areas. But some European diplomats here and international aid workers were more skeptical.
In debt relief, the Group of Seven industrial nations agreed in Cologne, Germany, in June to cut the debt burden of the poorest countries to ease poverty. To help pay the American share, President Clinton requested $370 million this year to help the 41 countries identified by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund as "heavily indebted."
But Republicans, who included $33 million in their spending bill, agreed to only $123 million in the compromise. They said that to spend more would force a raid on the Social Security surplus, which both parties vow to protect.
"The real danger today is not American hegemony, but American disengagement," said one diplomat from a European country involved in the debt fund set up at Cologne.
Aid workers said the United States could well afford to cancel loans to let poor countries focus their resources on needed services like education and health care. "We don't think a farmer in Mali should be selling some of his crop to go into the U.S. Treasury when they need to get children into school," said Seth Amgott, a spokesman for Oxfam, a worldwide anti-poverty agency.
The initial foreign aid bill passed by the Republican-controlled Congress last month contained $12.7 billion and was vetoed by President Clinton as inadequate. The administration asked for $14.4 billion but compromised on $13.5 billion.
The compromise restored some administration priorities, including an additional $170 million in economic support funds and $150 million for development aid.
The deal also increased financing for peacekeeping operations in Kosovo, including a new police force and assistance to neighboring countries. The administration originally requested $130 million, and Congress first approved $78 million, but in the end, they agreed to $153 million. The allies are to hold a donors' conference later this month to work out the cost-sharing. Financing for the American troops in Kosovo will be handled in separate legislation.
Republicans also restored $104 million for nuclear security programs and other aid to the former Soviet republics, but the $839 million total fell far short of the administration's request for $1.32 billion.
The United States has worked hard to prevent nuclear material in Russia from falling into the hands of terrorists. Even some proponents of safeguards have grown frustrated as the Russians have restricted access to some sensitive nuclear sites. But Kenneth Luongo, the head of the Russian-American Nuclear Security Advisory Council, a private group, said, "Given the problems in Russia, the thought that devoting less money is going to give them incentive to be more cooperative, or solve the problem faster, is inaccurate." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MALI (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MALI (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN AID; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (97%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); VETO (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); POLICE FORCES (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



115 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate Drops to 4.1% As Wages Rise By 1 cents an Hour

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The American economy demonstrated once again last month its remarkable ability to absorb nearly all the people seeking jobs and yet not pay more to hire them.
The unemployment rate fell to 4.1 percent, the lowest level in nearly 30 years, the Labor Department reported yesterday. But the average wages of workers below the rank of supervisor went up just one cent an hour last month. 
 Despite a strong economy and nearly full employment, the inflationary pressures that usually foreshadow the end of an economic expansion have not yet emerged.
"The American economy is turning out to be more flexible and dynamic than anyone had thought possible," said James Glassman, a senior economist at Chase Manhattan Bank.
Stock prices rose smartly in response to the employment news. The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 10,704.48, up 64.91 points. The mild wage number and an equally mild inflation report earlier this week suggested to investors that the Federal Reserve's policymakers may be less inclined to raise interest rates at their next meeting, on Nov. 16, and more likely to be restrained in the future even if they push up rates modestly this month in an attempt to slow the economy.
The Clinton administration hailed the latest employment figures as evidence of the success of administration policies. "We are drawing more and more people into jobs by making work pay," said the Secretary of Labor, Alexis Herman.
Still, the Labor Department report suggested that the economy may be slowing gradually. The nation's employers added 310,000 jobs to their payrolls in October, the most for a single month since July. But employment growth averaged only 160,000 a month for August through October, down from 210,000 in the first half of the year. In recent weeks, retailers and auto dealers have reported that sales gains are slowing. Home sales and new construction have fallen from their summer peaks. And the consumer confidence polls show a gradual drop since mid-summer.
"No forecaster sees a recession ahead, but most do see more modest growth in the Year 2000 than in 1999," said Gary Thayer, chief economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons, an investment firm.
Job growth was strongest last month among temporary workers, who accounted for 45,000 of the 215,000 service sector jobs added to the rolls. Government employment, particularly in education, also grew strongly, while jobs disappeared in retailing and, once again, in manufacturing.
Still, many companies scrambled to recruit enough workers from among the 5.8 million people who seek work. They represented an unemployment rate of 4.1 percent, down from 4.2 percent in September and the lowest since January 1970, when it was 3.9 percent.
The steady decline in unemployment over the last five years has spread across every group, bringing jobless levels to their lowest levels in years for Hispanics, whites, blacks, adult men and teenagers. The unemployment rate for adult women fell to 3.5 percent in October from 3.7 percent the month before -- the lowest level since 1953, the Labor Department said.
What is amazing in all these numbers is the failure of wages to rise, flatly contradicting established economic theory. Most economists expected, as unemployment fell below 5 percent, that the scramble to find enough workers would force employers to bid up wages at an accelerating rate. But the 5 percent line was breached in mid-1997 and nothing has happened.
"It is perplexing that the economy can persist at such low unemployment without wage inflation," said Robert Gordon, a Northwestern University economist.
Many economists argue that American corporations, through new technologies that improve efficiency, have managed to obtain a lot more output from employees for the same number of hours worked. The additional revenue from this output of merchandise and services helps to explain how companies have managed to remain profitable without raising prices. And indeed, the Commerce Department reported on Tuesday that as the economy expanded briskly in the third quarter, its inflation index rose at an annual rate of only 1.3 percent.
But productivity fails to explain why companies don't find themselves forced to raise wage scales to attract enough workers. And they have resisted doing so, according to Labor Department data. The average wage for production workers -- now $13.37 an hour -- was up only 3.6 percent for the last 12 months, a pace that is actually slower than earlier in the year.
A broader measure, covering benefits as well as wages, has been similarly mild. Only when income from stock options and recruiting bonuses are included does compensation begin to accelerate.
"I think there are nascent indications that we will see stronger wage gains going forward," said Mark Zandi, chief economist for RFA Dismal Sciences, a consulting firm in West Chester, Pa.
But others argue that wages no longer respond as they once did to a scarce supply of workers. The work force, for example, is aging and unemployment among older, settled workers is always lower than among young people. Then, too, the rising number of temporary workers give jobs quickly to the unemployed and give employers a pool of people to draw from without having to bid for permanent hires.
Reflecting this demand, temporary workers now total 3.1 million, or 2.4 percent of the 129.3 million people employed in October. Few other groups of workers have grown as rapidly in the 1990's.
The decline in union membership and bargaining power has softened wage demands. So has the decline in the inflation rate, which has made workers more willing to accept smaller raises, many economists say. Then, too, immigrants are feeding many more people into the work force than the Government's numbers now capture, Mr. Gordon says. And the failure of the minimum wage to rise in step with inflation has taken pressure off wages.
"Rarely do we have a single explanation for a major change in the economy," Mr. Gordon said. "We never came up with one bullet to explain the productivity slowdown that came upon us in the 1970's, or the Great Depression."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Consumer Borrowing" plots net change in total consumer borrowing, from April 1998 through Sept. 1999. (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: A G EDWARDS & SONS INC (52%); A G EDWARDS & SONS INC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); RETAIL SALES (70%); RETAILERS (67%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



116 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
The Education of George W. Bush, and the Voter

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Nov. 5

 BODY:
One afternoon last week, flying high above northern Texas, Gov. George W. Bush eagerly displayed the tome he was reading, "Titan," a 774-page biography of John D. Rockefeller.
Mr. Bush pronounced himself a serious history buff as he toyed with the ribbon-like marker that tracked his progress -- a souvenir, he said, from one of his favorite events, the annual book fair here. 
 But a day later, standing with his wife, Laura, near the front porch of the Governor's Mansion, he hit a decidedly different note. Someone congratulated Mrs. Bush for an award that she had just been given by her alma mater, Southern Methodist University, and asked the couple if Mr. Bush had ever received a similar distinction from one of the schools that he attended.
"If they honored me," Mr. Bush said, with a touch of mischievous pride, "the teachers might boycott."
Cerebral or simply sensible? Intellectual or visceral? Closet bibliophile or class clown? As Mr. Bush, the front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination, presents himself ever more fully to American voters, he often seems uncertain about which image to underscore, which card to play.
In this respect, more than any other, Mr. Bush comes across as a work in progress, a balancing act that has yet to find its equilibrium. Perhaps that reflects his own genuinely split personality. Or perhaps it anticipates the ambivalence of American voters and their appetite for candidates who stake some vague middle ground between uncommon erudition and common knowledge.
Precisely where on that spectrum Mr. Bush falls -- a determination with potentially important consequences for his candidacy -- was the subject of considerable attention this week.
For starters, the New Yorker magazine published Mr. Bush's academic transcript from his undergraduate years at Yale University, a document that Mr. Bush and his advisers had previously declined to release. The report card showed him to be a solid C student.
Then a Boston television reporter surprised Mr. Bush during an interview on Wednesday with a pop quiz on foreign leaders. Mr. Bush got just one of four questions right.
Mr. Bush shrugged it off today. "People can trick me with, trip me up with questions," he said in an interview with ABC News, adding that the American people simply "want somebody who they trust to lead the world to peace."
President Clinton pretty much echoed that sentiment and, in remarks that seemed at least somewhat sympathetic to Mr. Bush, said that the Texas governor would probably learn soon enough the names he should know.
Political analysts said that most voters would probably see the situation that way as well, but that Mr. Bush ran a serious risk if he seemed too cavalier about what he did and did not know, and if questions about the seriousness of his engagement with substantive matters became a theme so dominant in discussions of him that they eclipsed his affability and his agenda.
"Packaged by the right opponents, repeated the right number of times and the right ways, that issue might take on real momentum," said Bruce Buchanan, a professor of presidential politics at the University of Texas who has closely monitored Mr. Bush's political ascent.
Mr. Buchanan said that while Mr. Bush's performance on the pop quiz itself seemed irrelevant, and the quiz itself was arguably inappropriate, "I think there are some legitimate questions about whether Bush is truly up to speed yet."
But Mr. Buchanan added: "Can he get sufficiently well prepared to be ready for a Bush inauguration? In principle, I think yes."
Mr. Bush's refrain in the past has been that there are blind spots in his experience and familiarity with some issues, but that those could be corrected by the right advice from the right advisers.
And yet, Mr. Bush and his aides have been quick to show that he is catching up, filling in the blanks, cramming for the exam. They have been forthcoming about the parade of out-of-town experts -- from former Secretary of State George P. Shultz to Condoleezza Rice, the former provost of Stanford University -- who have traveled to the Governor's Mansion, where Mr. Bush gets private tutorials.
In public comments, particularly in regard to foreign policy, Mr. Bush has zestfully volunteered long answers to voters' questions, taking his audience around the world in 80 phrases that assert his geopolitical command.
"I'd love to, love to," he said to a man in Meredith, N.H., this week who asked him if he would care to share any of his thoughts on foreign policy. Mr. Bush started with China: "As opposed to being a strategic partner, China is a competitor."
He proceeded to Russia: "We should not be putting good money after bad into the country of Russia."
He landed briefly in Israel: "It is important for us to honor our commitment to the sole democracy in the Middle East."
Then he dwelled for a while in Mexico, saying that a way to stem illegal immigration was to foster economic development there.
"While we've got to do a better job of enforcing our border," Mr. Bush said, "it's important for people in this country to understand that people come here to work, to put food on the table."
But Mr. Bush takes this kind of thing only so far.
"There's a defiant streak in him," Mr. Buchanan said, "and I think he still has contradictory impulses. He knows he needs to study, but there's something in him that doesn't care for the earnestness or fussiness of that expectation."
And that, Mr. Buchanan and other political scientists said, may be one of his most appealing attributes to American voters.
"They want somebody who can understand the issues, but they also want somebody who can relate to them," said Darrell West, a professor of political science at Brown University.
While there are times when Mr. Bush conspicuously bucks any perception that he lacks intellectual curiosity, there are at least as many times when he acknowledges, and indulges, any impression that he is more salesman than scholar, and engaged in details only to a point.
Outside the Governor's Mansion last week, he was asked if he was ready for an education speech that he was scheduled to deliver four days later.
"I still have to write it," Mr. Bush said with a twinkle, a smile and the clear implication that he was not the one holding the pen.
It was reminiscent of a moment on the campaign trail months earlier when Mr. Bush jokingly told reporters that he was lingering with them to avoid another policy briefing from his advisers.
Those advisers send their own mixed signals. Frequently, they portray Mr. Bush as someone who is intricately involved in the operation of his campaign and even an unheralded policy maven. But they conversely praise him as someone smart and trusting enough to carve out a general vision and let others sweat the small stuff.
And in this regard, unlike most others, they are not always on the same page. After one adviser said that Mr. Bush can frequently be found with his nose deep in a book, another offered, only half jokingly, "Maybe the Bible."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George W. Bush, hoping to follow the example of another George W., met with a future voter, Daniel Murray, 10, at a stop in Wilmington, Del. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (63%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (63%); SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (56%); SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (56%); SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); POLITICS (72%); HISTORY (72%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



117 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Republican Leaders Engage President in Budget Talks

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Eager to adjourn with a spending deal that allows them to claim a partial political victory, Republican leaders in Congress are bargaining directly with President Clinton, White House and Congressional officials said today.
The officials said a compromise was discussed in three conversations over the last three days among Mr. Clinton, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois and Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Senate majority leader. 
 Nevertheless, much remains to be done. The two sides are still billions of dollars apart on spending, and there are significant policy disputes, like the Republicans' unwillingness to agree to pay $1 billion in dues that the United States owes to the United Nations. As a result, neither side expects a grand bargain before Congress reconvenes on Monday.
"We feel that the only way to conduct these kind of negotiations is detail by detail, and line by line," said Gene Sperling, the top White House economic adviser.
The deal Republicans are seeking would require the White House to pay for new spending it wants by cutting other programs, cuts known as offsets. These real cuts would allow the Republicans to stop using the creative accounting they have relied on to mask tens of billions of dollars in spending over the limits set by Congress.
White House officials said tonight that they had a long list of such cuts in their pocket. They have not shown Republicans that list.
Republicans also want Mr. Clinton to agree to a small across-the-board reduction in federal spending, significantly smaller than the 1 percent cut that he denounced as "mindless" and that he vetoed on Wednesday.
Mr. Hastert raised the matter directly on Wednesday, but "the President indicated opposition and said offsets were a far better solution," a White House official said.
Tonight they spoke again and agreed to try to cooperate, but Mr. Hastert did not bring up the across-the-board cuts, the official said.
Any deal would be intended to allow both sides to claim that this year's budget will not dip into Social Security surpluses to finance federal spending. This would defuse accusations that the Republican spending bills, or White House demands for spending increases, would require tapping into the retirement funds.
The White House and the Republicans would have to agree on using bookkeeping devices that make the spending look as low as possible. "I have no objection to that," President Clinton said last week.
Mr. Clinton has already signaled his willingness to compromise with the Republicans.
"We need to sit down like grown ups, go out and tell the American people the truth, and work through this," he said on Monday, two days before he vetoed the bill that included the across-the-board cuts. "We can find the offsets. We don't have to spend the Social Security surplus. We can do this. And I hope they will work with me to do it."
If a deal with the president falls through, senior Republican aides said, their leaders would prepare a package of billions of dollars in mandatory spending reductions that Mr. Clinton could not easily block.
The Republicans desperately want to complete the year's four remaining spending bills before Wednesday, the deadline set by the year's fourth continuing resolution, passed by Congress on Thursday night, that allows the Government to keep operating without a real budget. That budget was due 35 days ago, on Oct. 1, the beginning of the new fiscal year.
Many members of Congress are tired and grumpy and want to go home, said the Republican chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Representative C. W. (Bill) Young of Florida. More than any struggle over principle, power or penny-pinching, the desire to leave town seems likely to push them to the finish line next week, in what most hope will be the last days of a desultory year.
"That certainly is the mood and the hopes of all the members," Mr. Young said.
When Mr. Hastert and other Republican leaders emerged from his office on Thursday night, after a marathon bargaining session with the White House over spending on foreign aid, they looked spent. Mr. Hastert wore a mask of exhaustion. He had just been beaten in a debate with the White House, and had agreed to spend about $800 million more on foreign aid than his conservative colleagues wanted.
Mr. Young said he was just plain beat. "The days have been long," he said. "The hours have been long. Lots of 15-, 16-hour days."
Another reason to wrap up a deal is that nearly two dozen senators have planned official trips in the coming three weeks. They include Ted Stevens, the Alaska Republican who heads the Appropriations Committee, which governs spending; William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who heads the Finance Committee, which governs taxes, and Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader.
Congress must accomplish a great deal if it truly wants to leave town on Wednesday, the end of the fourth overtime period in what has thus far been a contest with few stars and fewer highlights.
The House passed the $15.2 billion foreign aid bill by a 316-to-100 vote today, with 84 Republicans in dissent. Four other spending bills remain to be negotiated; Mr. Clinton has either vetoed or refused to sign each one over issues of spending and policy.
The bill covering the Interior Department is being held up by two disagreements. One is President Clinton's request for $550 million more to buy wilderness areas to protect them from developers. The Republicans are willing to offer $300 million, but want to spend it in different ways, Mr. Young said. The second disagreement is over Republican amendments benefiting the oil, gas, mining and ranching industries.
The bill covering the Commerce, Justice and State Departments has two problems, as well. One is the demand by Representative Christopher H. Smith, Republican of New Jersey, that the United States refuse to pay $1 billion in back dues to the United Nations until the White House agrees that no federal money can go to groups trying to liberalize abortion abroad. The other is Mr. Clinton's demand that Congress fully finance his program to add 50,000 officers to local police forces.
The bill covering the Education Department is stymied by a dispute involving Mr. Clinton's $1.4 billion program to reduce class sizes in public schools by hiring 100,000 new teachers. And the bill providing federal funds for the District of Columbia has been hamstrung by Republican refusals to finance an AIDS program and other local measures. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 105 P.L. 254 CONTINUING RESOLUTION (54%); 105 P.L. 260 CONTINUING RESOLUTION (54%); 105 P.L. 273 CONTINUING RESOLUTION (54%); 105 P.L. 249 CONTINUING RESOLUTION (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: ALASKA REPUBLICAN (91%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VETO (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); LEGISLATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ACCOUNTING (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); LOTT, TRENT (SEN); WEINER, TIM BILL CLINTON (92%); TRENT LOTT (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



118 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Poverty, President and Speaker Find a Moment of Unity

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Near the end of a bitterly partisan Congressional session, President Clinton and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert appeared together here tonight to celebrate a rare moment of accord: a pledge to merge their plans to alleviate inner-city and rural poverty.
The announcement came on the second and last day of Mr. Clinton's latest antipoverty tour, which began this morning on a tomato farm in a rural Arkansas town of 700 people and ended in one of Chicago's most blighted neighborhoods. 
 While the agreement they announced amounted to a set of goals rather than any specific legislation, the accord reflected a concern by Republican leaders that they not let Mr. Clinton dominate the debate over how to spread a remarkable era of prosperity to corners of the country where unemployment remains high and incomes are far below average.
The accord announced today pledges that the two parties will "work in a spirit of good faith to develop a bipartisan effort" to bring capital to impoverished areas of the country. But all the hard bargaining -- over what kind of tax incentives will be established, what kind of equity and loan guarantees to extend to small businesses and entrepreneurs -- are put off until next year.
"America can't ignore the people who have been left behind," Mr. Hastert said this evening.
Acknowledging that he was somewhat out of place in a staunchly Democratic neighborhood, he said, "I don't think I'm going to make Republicans out of anyone" in the audience. "But this isn't about politics," he said.
Indeed, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Hastert both used the event tonight, in a technical preparatory school in the struggling Englewood neighborhood, to make the case that partisanship must stop at the inner-city's edge.
"They are used to writing in Washington about how we all fight all the time," Mr. Clinton said, with the Rev. Jesse Jackson and several politicians behind him. "In Reverend Jackson's famous phrase, we have decided to reach common ground and higher ground."
Mr. Hastert, who introduced Mr. Jackson at the end of his comments, sounded much like Mr. Clinton in describing his goals.
"Sometimes Democrats and Republicans do agree," Mr. Hastert said. "And it's time to come together and make things happen."
Noting that the Democratic and Republican proposals even went by different names, Mr. Hastert said, "I don't care what we call it."
The written principles released by Mr. Hastert and the White House said there were "significant untapped new markets" in both rural and urban poor areas. They said their goal was to empower communities "with new equity capital, tax incentives and other tools" and to provide "private sector and government resources."
The Republican plan that Mr. Hastert alluded to this evening was sponsored by Representatives J. C. Watts of Oklahoma and James M. Talent of Missouri, for up to 100 "renewal communities."
It is essentially a tax reduction plan under which there is no capital gains tax on the sale of a business or partnership inside a renewal community, a proposal the White House opposes; a wage credit for companies that hire workers from the community and a commercial revitalization credit for those who renovate nonresidential buildings in such communities.
The second day of Mr. Clinton's "new markets" tour began in familiar territory for the president: a tomato farming cooperative in Hermitage, Ark., a town not far from the area where Mr. Clinton grew up. Mr. Clinton's first encounter with the town came more than 20 years ago, when as attorney general of Arkansas he went there to deal with labor problems stemming from the arrival of farm workers from Mexico.
"I just came down here one night and sat and listened for three or four hours and learned more about tomato farmers than I had ever known in my life -- and than I've ever heard since."
It could not have been a more welcoming crowd: in state elections, Mr. Clinton won overwhelming victories in the area, and today he stayed to shake hands with the crowds for more than half an hour. It resembled a campaign rally more than a celebration of the opening of new economic markets, and it was laced with the announcement of some old-fashioned road projects by Transportation Secretary Rodney Slater.
Another member of the cabinet, Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman, could not resist noting that Mr. Slater's tenure had been marked by "perhaps a disproportionate share of roads to Arkansas."
The ostensible purpose of the visit was to see the Hermitage Tomato Cooperative Association, founded by 15 farmers who were barely surviving and could not afford the kind of processing equipment needed to become a major supplier of tomatoes. Today they sell to Burger King and the Kroger Company, but they did so with existing government aid programs -- rather than what Mr. Clinton and Mr. Hastert were pressing today.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, made a joint appearance yesterday in Chicago, pledging to help the poor. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RURAL AREAS; URBAN AREAS POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); CITIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (66%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (93%); JESSE JACKSON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



119 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Judge Contends Microsoft Stifled Tech Innovation
The judge in the government's antitrust trial against Microsoft issued a broad denunciation of the software giant as the first part of his verdict in the case. The judge, Thomas Penfield Jackson of Federal District Court, said that the company used its monopoly power to stifle innovation, reduce competition and hurt consumers. 
 "Most harmful of all is the message that Microsoft's actions have conveyed to every enterprise with the potential to innovate in the computer industry," Judge Jackson wrote in his 207-page findings of fact. "Through its conduct," he added, "Microsoft has demonstrated that it will use its prodigious market power and immense profits to harm any firm" that gets in its way. Page A1.
 
Nasdaq Index Continues Its Climb
The Nasdaq composite index closed above the 3,000 level for the first time on Wednesday and recorded its sixth consecutive record high yesterday. It closed up 46.34 points, or 1.5 percent, at 3,102.29, and is up 41.48 percent so far this year.
The Dow Jones industrial average is up only 16.59 percent so far this year. It closed up 64.84 points, or 0.61 percent, to 10,704.48. And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 7.59, or 0.56 percent, to 1,370.23. C3.
 
Employers Find It Hard to Fill Jobs
With the nation's unemployment rate at the lowest level in nearly 30 years, employees are no longer afraid to go job hunting in search of better benefits, more flexible hours and other perks, while employers are having a hard time attracting candidates to fill openings. A1.
 
Shares of Cobalt Soar on First Day
Shares of Cobalt Networks, a maker of no-frills network computers, soared in their first day of trading, to $128.50 from their initial price of $22, as investors bestowed yet another staggering valuation on a small, money-losing Internet company. C3.
 
Appeals Court Hands Intel a Victory
Intel won a key victory in an antitrust case when a federal appeals court lifted an order that required the computer chip maker to share patented microprocessor technology with another company, Intergraph. C2.
 
Latin American Stocks Rally
Latin America's biggest stock markets are booming, as investors from other countries take advantage of lower borrowing costs in the United States to gain a stake in what they expect will be a region of growing economies next year. In the last few weeks, indexes such as the Bovespa on the Sao Paulo stock exchange, Latin America's largest stock market, have soared to a six-month high. Healthy gains were also registered by the exchanges in Mexico, Argentina, Chile and Colombia. C2.
 
Disputes Threaten Trade Summit
Mike Moore, the director general of the World Trade Organization, warned in a letter to the chairman of the trade group's decision-making council that preparations for this month's summit meeting in Seattle are caught in a vicious circle. His letter warned that the meeting may end in failure unless its 134 members agree to compromise on disputes, notably one over agricultural subsidies, standing in the way of setting the agenda. C2.
 
Webvan Shares Make Fast Start
Shares in Webvan Group, an online grocer that is expected to lose $65 million this year, jumped 65 percent in their first day of trading, to $24.875 from the offering price of $15 a share. C6.
 
Amoco Agrees to Concessions
BP Amoco agreed to a number of concessions, including the sale of 13 percent of its oil production from Alaska's North Slope, in return for the blessing of Gov. Tony Knowles of Alaska for its proposed merger with Arco. C3.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,704.48 up 64.84
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.05% down 0.05
The euro -- $1.042 up 0.004
The dollar -- 106.48 yen 1.55

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (71%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); INTEL CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); VERDICTS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (88%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (88%); ELECTRONICS (78%); PATENTS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); COMPUTER CHIPS (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); FLEXTIME (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (67%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); 

PERSON: THOMAS PENFIELD JACKSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



120 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: Help Wanted, Meaning Help Can Be Fussy

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: ROANOKE, Va.

 BODY:
Not so long ago, most people were wary of leaving a job. Whatever its faults, they had too much at risk, like their seniority, security and benefits. But these times of prosperity and low unemployment have changed all that. Now, for the most part, people do not lose jobs. Jobs lose them.
For three and a half years, Joya Patsel, who is 19, worked for a Hardee's restaurant here. "They kept me at $5.50 the whole time," she said. "I quit." Now, she said, "I've been at McDonald's about five weeks. They started me at $6.25 and worked me up to $6.75." 
 Scott Marshall, 22, earns $11 an hour, or about $22,000 a year, installing heating and air-conditioning systems. He wants a higher wage, a shorter drive to work and a more empathetic boss. In late October, he called four companies like his own, and all were encouraging. "They all said just come in and fill out an application," he said.
Businesses are desperate for workers, and workers know it. Emboldened by that knowledge, they often bolt for nothing more than a shorter drive, more flexible hours, a marginal increase in pay or an employer's latest lure: the sign-on bonus. At the Roanoke office of the Virginia Employment Commission, for example, counselors originally trained to help the unemployed are busiest now helping fully employed workers find better jobs.
The bravest among them create their own jobs, striking out to start their own businesses, knowing they can still get a job if they fail.
"Workers seem fearless, and they ought to," said Gary Burtless, labor economist at the Brookings Institution in Washington.
At the heart of this new empowerment is the low national unemployment rate, which has been hovering around 4 percent. Employers in virtually every sector of the economy are experiencing a shortage of workers unlike any in recent history.
The scarcity runs through the ranks of the labor force from the construction trades to service-sector jobs to the high-technology Internet world. Needs that go unmet include those for doctors, engineers, mid level managers and even senior executives. But the severest shortages are in the lower pay ranges, for sales clerks, short-order cooks, food-store workers and data-entry clerks.
The trend has spread throughout rural areas and big cities and can be especially vexing in places like Roanoke, where the unemployment rate is 2 percent, considerably below the national rate.
Describing the situation here, Beth Doughty, president of the Roanoke Regional Chamber of Commerce, said: "It is most acute at lower wage levels, in jobs paying $6 to $10 or $11 an hour. But it's across the board, in all categories."
Carol Day, owner of an employment agency here, said 20 years ago she would have had 10 applicants for a secretarial job. "Now we might be able to come up with one or two people," she said.
Stanley Boatwright, a principal in the Lucas & Boatwright accounting firm, is beating the bushes for accountants with two to five years of experience, whom he would pay around $35,000 a year, and newly minted accountants, whom he would pay $25,000.
"What we see is what all employers see," Mr. Boatwright said.
Even in the professions, job seekers no longer look for lifelong careers with one firm. At the same time, he said, "the pipeline of qualified candidates is slowing down."
This market condition cannot last, some economists warn. They say it violates the age-old economic cycle. Any day now, they say, employers will have to respond by raising wages to lure and hold workers.
But other economists suspect that new forces are calming the old cycle. Once, said Lawrence Chimerine, a consultant and economist at the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington, industry could raise prices because it controlled them. With the growth of foreign trade, particularly, Mr. Chimerine said, customers have taken control. If American prices rise, customers will shop elsewhere.
"The process these days is backwards," Mr. Chimerine said.
Economists also say technology has raised productivity, letting workers and industry produce more goods and services per hour. That gives employers some leeway to raise wages, though not by much.
With malls, hospitals and businesses that serve rural communities far beyond it, Roanoke is a sponge of job creation that soaks up hourly workers. Periodically, manufacturers in the area, especially fading textile companies, lay people off. But other businesses are creating far more jobs, enough to absorb laid off workers and thousands of new workers who pour into the area year by year and to still leave employers begging.
"What we're telling employers is, you're going to have to steal people" from one another, said Jerry Barnett, assistant manager of the employment commission office.
Mr. Barnett said: "People are very fluid. They will move for a minimal increase in pay. In this area, instead of talking about unemployment, we talk about underemployment, people working in jobs that they feel are beneath them."
Last week, RKG Associates Inc., a consulting firm in Alexandria, Va., released the results of a survey it did of the Roanoke area job market for the employment commission.
"Thirty-three percent of respondents would quit their current job to take another job that paid the same but better met their personal needs," the report said.
"Nearly 40 percent would change jobs for less than a 15 percent increase in pay," it said. And "nearly 20 percent of respondents were working in jobs with educational requirements that were at least two levels below their educational attainment level."
Unable or reluctant to raise prices for their goods and services so they can then raise wages, employers are trying everything else. One device is the bonus, for agreeing to take a job, for staying on it or for performance.
"Will match existing pay or exceed," a roofing company advertises. "$100 sign-up bonus." Kentucky Fried Chicken promises sandwich makers and cooks the "possibility of three raises within six months," a "gift certificate program for high performers" and "opportunity for employee bonus."
Temporary staffing agencies go to extraordinary lengths to locate and retain workers for their clients, especially those willing to take low-paid jobs. Adecco, a large agency with more than 3,200 offices worldwide, is searching for 250 workers to dispatch to Hanover Direct, a distributor for eight mail-order catalog companies. The company needs them to work the pre-Christmas rush.
But finding them will not be easy. Adecco is combing rural communities 30 to 40 miles from Roanoke, searching for housewives who are willing to work but do not have cars, and for the first time, it has hired a bus company to transport them.
Then to retain the workers, the agency is offering bonuses just for showing up. In addition to the $6.75 hourly pay for Hanover Direct's day shift and $7.75 for the night shift, Adecco will pay $20 for each week of perfect attendance and $40 more for a month of perfect attendance.
"We're trying to head off people from leaving," said Beth Pinson, the agency's senior area manager. Besides the boon to workers, the economy's mix of prosperity and fraying workplace bonds has stimulated a burst of entrepreneurship here.
Terry Kidman, 40, has started a business doing what he did for someone else for 20 years, fitting out gasoline stations. His wife, Linda Kidman, 39, was once a nurse. Now, she said, she earns $50,000 a year selling newly prosperous homeowners decorating accessories -- figurines, pictures, candles, sconces, mirrors -- as a door-to-door agent for Home Interiors and Gifts, a company in Dallas.
"People want their homes to be beautiful," Mrs. Kidman said. "They want something good to look at when they get up. Even a child. It likes to look at a picture of a teddy bear on the wall." Decorating "makes them feel a little more important about their home and their stuff."
Prosperity also created an opportunity for Jeff Miller, 35, who went no further than high school. He loathes the thought of "a job," meaning working for someone else. "You don't get the residual income if you have a job," he said.
Mr. Miller determined that Roanoke's bustling retail stores could use a package delivery service, so he started one that last year earned him $62,000. That, in turn, has let him resurrect an artifact of the era before prosperity, the breadwinner father. His wife, Susan, stays home with their three children -- her preference, he said, as well as his.
To other families, the abundance of jobs spells opportunity for all. Miles White, 51, has two jobs. He is a vocational rehabilitation counselor for the blind and works weekends counseling troubled teenage girls.
His wife, Chris Lambruscati, 50, quadriplegic since a skydiving accident, is a psychotherapist. One daughter, Shawn, 17, works part time at a McDonald's, and another, Arren, 14, works part time at a Kroger's supermarket.
"It gives them structure, money, self-esteem," Mr. White said.
But real work can be hazardous to homework, he said, "so we make sure they make reasonably good grades, or their work is cut back."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Miles White and Chris Lambruscati of Roanoke, Va., with their daughters, Arren, standing, and Shawn. All four work, and Mr. White has two jobs. They are among many Americans taking advantage of the job market. (Stephanie Klein-Davis for The New York Times)(pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722211 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (90%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ROANOKE, VA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); FLEXTIME (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); HVAC SYSTEMS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T LAWRENCE CHIMERINE (61%); JERRY BARNETT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



121 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Tennessee Debates Governor's Appeal for an Income Tax

BYLINE: By EMILY YELLIN 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Nov. 5

 BODY:
In these flush economic times when many states have budget surpluses, Gov. Don Sundquist has had to grapple with revenue problems so severe that he has proposed the first income tax in Tennessee history, despite a lack of support from many of his Republican colleagues.
It has been an uphill battle for Mr. Sundquist, a second-term governor who had opposed an income tax for years. And on Thursday, as the Tennessee Legislature ended the first week of a special session here to consider tax reform but did not act on the governor's plan, the Republican leader in the Senate declared the income tax proposal all but dead. 
 Still, there is some bipartisan support for addressing a revenue shortfall that the governor's office has estimated will be about $383 million in the fiscal year that begins in July, unless new revenue sources can be found. That shortfall constitutes about 5 percent of the total revenue the state must raise.
Lawmakers are set to hold more hearings next week on the governor's proposal, and others.
Tennessee is one of eight states that do not have an income tax. The state relies heavily on revenue from its 6 percent sales tax. That rate together with local sales taxes gives Tennessee a higher combined sales tax rate than that of any of its eight neighboring states.
Economic analysts, including the governor's advisers, say that because of changes in consumer spending in recent years the state has not been able to benefit as much as it once did from its sales tax revenue.
"Sales taxes have not kept pace with economic growth," said William Fox, professor of economics at the University of Tennessee and an adviser to the governor.
The tax is on goods, but not services, and spending on services has overtaken spending on goods since the 1970's. To keep up, Professor Fox said, the state has increased sales taxes 61 times since 1971.
"The state has created a tax structure that is not competitive," he said.
Arturo Perez, a senior policy specialist at the fiscal affairs program of the National Conference for State Legislatures, said: "Tennessee has not been in a position to capture its share of the great economic growth in the last decade. Perhaps that indicates that Tennessee's current tax structure is out of kilter with today's economy."
Governor Sundquist's proposal would add a 3.5 percent tax on income, reduce the state's general sales tax rate to 3.75 percent from 6 percent and eliminate the sales tax on groceries.
"The failure of our tax structure occurred on my watch," Mr. Sundquist said in an interview today. "So I feel a responsibility to fix the system."
In a speech to the Legislature this week, the governor said the kind of long-term solution he had proposed was necessary to finance education and health care for the next generation, even if that meant the state would shift places in its ranking among states with the very lowest tax levels in the nation.
"I'm not going to tell our citizens that it is so important that we remain 50th in taxes that we're prepared to settle for 50th in everything else," he said.
But not everyone in Tennessee is convinced there is even a problem, much less that an income tax is the way to solve it.
"The wolf is not at the door," said Senator Michael R. Williams, a Republican.
"We're fully funded through July of next year," Mr. Williams said. "And I have not seen anything so far that would make me support the governor's plan."
One radio talk show host here, Dave Ramsey, has encouraged his listeners to send tea bags to Tennessee legislators in protest of an income tax. And a conservative research center called the Tennessee Family Institute has campaigned against the income tax as well, publicizing a report by the Cato Institute critical of a Tennessee income tax.
The Republican leader in the Senate, Ben Atchley of Knoxville, is against the income tax, as are some Democrats. Mr. Atchley said he did not believe there were enough votes in the Senate to pass the governor's bill. He agreed that Tennessee's tax system had a structural problem, but said that many taxpayers did not perceive it as an immediate problem.
"In last year's election everything was rosy," he said. "And then all of a sudden we've got a problem."
Mr. Atchley and others are looking for alternatives to an income tax, and ideas about taxes on services and personal property as well as spending cuts are beginning to be floated. The state's Medicaid replacement program, Tenncare, is a likely target when cuts are proposed. But no comprehensive alternatives to an income tax have yet been presented.
"The kind of sweeping reform that Tennessee is considering is rare, especially in recent years," said Mr. Perez of the state legislatures group. "It is always very difficult to enact any significant tax changes in the states. It usually does not always happen in the first year."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Don Sundquist has proposed Tennessee's first income tax. With the Tennessee Legislature in a special session this week to consider tax reform, supporters rallied at the Capitol in Nashville on Wednesday. (Photographs by Mark Humphrey/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (99%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE; UNITED STATES (99%); TENNESSEE, USA (99%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TAXATION; SALES TAX; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GOVERNORS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); SALES TAX (91%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX REFORM (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); 

PERSON: SUNDQUIST, DONALD K (GOV); YELLIN, EMILY DON SUNDQUIST (64%); BEN ATCHLEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



122 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: By the Way, a Mayor-Elect Is Gay

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

 BODY:
The winning platform was what you might expect from a man eager to be mayor of Plattsburgh, a small, once-industrial border town upstate: more police officers, after-school programs, and a plan to revitalize the economy by drawing tourists to the town's War of 1812 battle sites. (A diorama of the war, he likes to point out, is inside City Hall.)
Earlier this week, that platform helped Daniel Stewart, a Republican, narrowly defeat Plattsburgh's five-term mayor, Clyde Rabideau. 
 And it made Mr. Stewart, 37, a former Air Force sergeant and tractor-trailer driver who now works as a financial clerk at a local car dealership, the first openly gay person to be elected mayor in New York State.
Mr. Stewart, who described himself as having been "in the closet" during his eight years of service in the Air Force, had served on the Plattsburgh City Council since 1993.
Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of the mayor's race, he said, was that his sexual orientation did not come up for discussion. "The mayor never used anything about that; I never mentioned anything about that," Mr. Stewart said.
Nor did gay and lesbian concerns, like nondiscrimination statutes or domestic partnership benefits, enter the race. (Plattsburgh, population 20,000, has a nondiscrimination law but not partnership benefits.) Gay political activists saw the lack of gay themes as a cause for celebration.
"One great thing about this race was that sexual orientation was not an issue," said Matt Foreman, executive director of Empire State Pride Agenda, a gay and lesbian lobbying group.
Instead, Mr. Stewart pledged to hire more police officers in Plattsburgh, where, he said, crime had increased in the last two years, bucking a national trend. He also pledged to attract more tourists to the town, which was home to an Air Force Base until 1995, by playing up its historical attractions.
"I want to capitalize on the War of 1812," he said, noting his plans to place a cannon, circa 1812, atop City Hall.
Mr. Stewart also vowed to increase financing for youth programs and to lure companies that could take advantage of Plattsburgh's electricity rates -- the cheapest in the country, he said -- and abundant water.
He was endorsed by the town's police union and by Gov. George E. Pataki. According to unofficial results from the Clinton County clerk's office, Mr. Stewart won by 68 votes. About 100 absentee ballots have yet to be counted.
Gay political activists hailed Mr. Stewart's victory as evidence of an increasingly level political playing field.
"Not only is it the first ever of its kind in New York State, but it happened in a small middle-America type of city way upstate," said Sloan C. Wiesen, a spokesman for the Gay and Lesbian Victory Fund, a Washington-based group that supports gay candidates.
During this week's races, nine lesbians and gay men -- a record number -- ran for office across New York, most notably in rural and suburban areas.
On Long Island, Jonathan Cooper, a Democrat, was elected to the Suffolk County Legislature. Two incumbents, New York City Councilwoman Christine Quinn and a Nyack village trustee, John Shields, also Democrats, held on to their seats. Several gay and lesbian candidates lost, including Judy Green, a Democratic mayoral candidate in Poughkeepsie, Mary Mendola, who ran for the Ulster County Legislature, and Brian Cafferty, who ran for supervisor of Rosendale, a Catskills town of river bridges and antiques shops.
The election of Mr. Cooper and Mr. Stewart brought the statewide total of openly gay and lesbian elected officials to 27, including a half-dozen elected school board members in New York City.
In Plattsburgh, interestingly enough, Mr. Stewart faced an opponent known for positions favored by gay people on issues like domestic partnership benefits and same-sex marriage. Mr. Rabideau, who unsuccessfully ran for the Democratic nomination for lieutenant governor last year, had long enjoyed the support of the state's major gay and lesbian lobby group, Empire State. This year, Mr. Stewart earned its endorsement.
"There is something uniquely important about electing openly lesbian and gay people to office," Mr. Foreman said. "It is a role model for young people. It dispels stereotypes very quickly."
The group has also actively sought out Republicans to press a its agenda within the state Republican Party.
Mr. Stewart will be one of five openly gay mayors in the country, according to the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund. The others are in Arizona, Illinois, Missouri and North Carolina.
Among the roughly 500,000 elected officeholders nationwide, "from dog-catcher to Congress," as Mr. Wiesen put it, about 180 are gays and lesbians. Most are Democrats, he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel Stewart, who was endorsed by Gov. George E. Pataki and will be the state's first gay mayor, spent his Air Force years not telling. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GAY&LESBIAN VICTORY (83%); US AIR FORCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAYORS (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AIR FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LOBBYING (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); TRENDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (69%); COHABITATION (65%); BALLOTS (65%); UTILITY RATES (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%); NEW CAR DEALERS (54%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



123 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Favorable News on Jobs and Inflation Lifts Equity Prices

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Financial markets applauded a government report released yesterday that portrayed a slowing economy with no discernible increase in inflationary pressure.
After hearing that the unemployment rate for October fell to 4.1 percent, the lowest level in nearly 30 years, traders pushed bond yields, which had been falling all week, even lower. And stock prices, especially technology and financial service company shares, made a broad advance. 
 Analysts said the jobs report provided more evidence that the economy, which barreled ahead in the summer, is slowing down, reducing the need for the Federal Reserve Board to raise short-term interest rates later this month.
"The odds have certainly tilted against any action" by the Fed, said David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International. "There is not a very compelling case to do anything right now."
Bond yields moved lower within minutes after the employment report was released, continuing a dramatic downward spiral that began less than two weeks ago.
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell to 6.05 percent from 6.10 percent Thursday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 19/32, to 101 1/32.
Stock prices moved sharply higher early in the session, but gave up some of the gains later in the day. Despite the selling, the closing numbers remained impressive.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 46.34 points, or 1.5 percent, to 3,102.29. It was the sixth consecutive record high for the Nasdaq, which closed above the 3,000 level for the first time on Wednesday.
Gains of more than 2 points in American Express and J. P. Morgan helped lift the Dow Jones industrial average by 64.84 points, or 0.61 percent, to 10,704.48. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 7.59, or 0.56 percent, to 1,370.23. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller company stocks gained 2.51, or 0.57 percent, to 442.41.
Since the start of the bond market rally on Oct. 26, the Dow average has gained just under 4 percent, the S.& P. 500 is up nearly 7 percent, and the Nasdaq has risen 10 percent.
The gains were recorded on heavy trading. Just over a billion shares were traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume on the Nasdaq was 1.33 billion shares, the sixth busiest session in its history.
The decline in interest rates has measurably improved the mood of investors in the stock market. For the week, the Nasdaq composite index rose 4.6 percent. Elsewhere, the S.& P. 500 managed only a half a percent increase. And the Dow Jones industrial average, which added four new stocks this week, lost ground, falling 25.38 points, or two-tenths of a percent.
The data this week appear to make it less likely that Fed policy makers will vote to raise short-term interest rates at a meeting scheduled for Nov. 16. But some economists said there is still a chance that the central bank could tighten monetary policy. And traders said that at this point, stocks could be vulnerable to such a move.
"You can make a case that with the weakening in housing indicators, the decline in car sales and the October employment data, things are slowing down," said Stephen Slifer, chief economist at Lehman Brothers. "But we are still looking for a tightening."
Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company, said that if the stock market "gets the news we expect, which is that the Fed is standing pat, we are poised to go back through 11,000" on the Dow industrial average.
"But if we get too far ahead of ourselves and get a disappointment in the form of a rate hike," Mr. Hogan added, "we have set ourselves up for a fall."
Telecommunications equipment makers, financial service companies and retailers were among the biggest winners in the stock market. But it was a bad day for big oil stocks.
Qualcomm, the cell phone technology developer, jumped 30 3/8, to a record 294 5/16. For the week, the stock gained 32 percent.
Motorola rose 7 13/16, to 114 5/16, after telling analysts in a conference call that it would be cutting costs over the next five years.
Among retailers, Wal-Mart and Home Depot, two Dow components, were particularly strong. Wal-Mart gained 2 1/16, to 58 1/16, and Home Depot was up 2, at 78.
A negative report on oil companies from Goldman, Sachs sent oil stocks lower. Exxon fell 2 3/8, to 70 5/8; Royal Dutch Shell shed 1 3/8, to 55 5/8; and BP Amoco dropped 1 1/4, to 52 5/16.
Worries about the damaging finding by the presiding judge in the government's antitrust case against Microsoft were not evident in the company's stock price yesterday. Microsoft closed at 91 5/8, down 1/8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



124 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Yugoslavia Rejects Plan to Ease Sanctions
The government of President Slobodan Milosevic dismissed a new American proposal to partly suspend sanctions if free elections were held soon. Citing Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright's statement that Mr. Milosevic could not win a fair election, government spokesmen and media outlets asserted that the United States would recognize only a vote that his government lost. A4 

NATO will delay a reduction of its 31,000-member force in Bosnia until after municipal elections in April, officials said. A5
 
Pope Visits India
John Paul II arrived in New Delhi to meet with the Roman Catholic bishops of Asia at a time when anti-Christian violence among Hindu fundamentalists is at its highest in decades. Hindu fundamentalist groups have been holding protests to demand that the pope apologize for massacres by Portuguese colonists in the 16th century and that Christian missionaries stop conversions. A3
 
China Heightens Attack on Sect
The People's Daily suggested that the very fate of China hangs on the government's struggle against Falun Gong, the banned spiritual movement. First declaring that the government had achieved a "decisive victory" against Falun Gong, which was banned in July, the editorial went on to say that the effort to defeat the movement would be "long and arduous." A3
 
Russia and the I.M.F.
The Russian economy, helped by high world oil prices and a currency devaluation last year, is looking better than it has in years, with gross domestic product up by almost 2 percent over last year, among other positive signs. Nonetheless, the I.M.F. is withholding $640 million in aid because Russia has not met new conditions set by the fund. A8
 
Foreign Aid Bill Advances
The House overwhelmingly approved a compromise foreign aid bill, but some allies and international aid workers expressed disappointment at the level of debt relief offered to poor countries. The Senate is expected to approve the bill, which was the product of negotiations between the White House and Capitol Hill, and President Clinton said it "meets our commitments" in key policy areas. A7
 
U.S. May Build Missile Network
The Clinton administration said it might go ahead with a national missile defense system, even if that meant withdrawing from the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty over Russian objections. At the United Nations, Russia won support for keeping the treaty intact in a largely symbolic vote from many of Washington's allies and friends. President Clinton is to decide next summer whether to begin deploying the $10 billion system. A8
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A7-11
 
Searchers Close In On EgyptAir Black Boxes
A remote-controlled submarine tethered to a Navy salvage ship in the Atlantic off Nantucket closed in on two pinging sounds that operators hope would lead them to the two flight recorders from EgyptAir Flight 990. The sounds are coming from 250 to 270 feet of water, among small pieces of the aircraft's wreckage, and may be covered by fine silt on the sea floor. A10
 
Tennessee Income Tax Debate
The Legislature ended the first week of a special session to consider a tax overhaul without acting on a proposal by the governor, a Republican, to enact an income tax. The Republican leader in the Senate declared the income tax proposal all but dead. A7
 
New Los Angeles Schools Chief
The Board of Education said Ramon C. Cortines Jr., who has led school systems in New York and elsewhere, would become interim superintendent, succeeding Ruben Zacarias, who abandoned his fight to stay on in return for a severance package. A7
 
Court Allows Voucher Plan
The Supreme Court, voting 5 to 4, issued an order permitting Cleveland to operate its disputed school voucher program at full strength until a federal appeals court ruled on the program's constitutionality. A8
 
Direct Talks in Budget Battle
Republican Congressional leaders, eager to adjourn with a spending deal that allows them to claim a partial political victory, are bargaining directly with President Clinton. A8
 
Medicare Relief Bill Passes
A bill that would return billions of dollars previously trimmed from Medicare payments to hospitals, nursing homes and other care providers was approved by the House by a vote of 388 to 25. A9
 
Bipartisan Pledge on Poverty
President Clinton and Speaker J. Dennis Hastert appeared together in Chicago to celebrate a rare moment of accord: a pledge to merge their plans to relieve poverty. A8
 
Nominee Deflects Criticism
Carol Moseley-Braun, the former senator from Illinois, appeared before a Senate committee in her quest to become ambassador to New Zealand and helped push aside accusations of impropriety that have followed her for years. A8
 
Religion A11
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Hastening Shuttle's Return
NASA, mindful of possible Year 2000 computer problems, is taking steps to make sure that the shuttle Discovery completes its mission to repair the Hubble Space Telescope before the new year, even if that means flying over the Christmas holiday, a space agency official said. A28
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Paper's Contest Backfires With Wrong Prize Number
Thousands of Daily News readers thought they were winners of $100,000 or other prizes offered by the newspaper in a promotional contest. But the newspaper said a production error had caused incorrect numbers to be printed in some editions and that it would instead hold a drawing next month to choose the winners. A1
 
Accusations Against City Union
Two former officials of District Council 37, the umbrella union of municipal employees, have accused the union's benefits fund of diverting fund money toward the union's political activities and fraudulently obtaining large overpayments in contributions from the city. B1
 
Ruling on State Bias Cases
The Pataki administration is trying to decide how to respond to a federal judge's ruling that the state had improperly dismissed more than 5,000 complaints of racial, sexual and other bias and had improperly refused to accept 2,400 other cases. B1
 
Safir Guard Killed by Own Gun
Sgt. Gary Politi, 38, a highly decorated member of Police Commissioner Howard Safir's security detail, shot himself to death at his girlfriend's Chelsea apartment, officials said. She told officers that he had been cleaning his pistol. B3
 
Buchanan as Art Critic
The presidential hopeful Patrick J. Buchanan said he had attended the "Sensation" exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum of Art and found it "dispirited, degrading, disgusting, sacrilegious, blasphemous and an insult to the mother of God." B5
 
OBITUARIES A15
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-18
 
EDUCATION
 
77% Fail Math, 65% English
Large majorities of New York City eighth graders failed to meet tough new state standards on tests in mathematics and English, raising questions about the quality and content of the curriculum in middle schools. A1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
Microsoft Ruled a Monopoly
The presiding judge in the antitrust trial against Microsoft ruled that the company had used its monopoly power to stifle innovation, reduce competition and hurt consumers, in the first part of his verdict. The second part, not expected for months, will address whether Microsoft's actions violated antitrust law. A1
 
Payrolls Grow, but Not Pay
The unemployment rate fell to 4.1 percent, the lowest level in nearly 30 years, though the average wages of workers below the rank of supervisor went up just one cent an hour. Despite the strong economy and nearly full employment, the inflationary pressures that usually foreshadow the end of an economic expansion have not yet emerged. C1
 
Stock prices, especially technology and financial service company shares, advanced broadly. C3
 
Drug Makers Prepare for Battle
The rival bidders for Warner-Lambert -- Pfizer and American Home Products -- hardened their stances, reaffirming their commitments to complete a deal. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
 
Editorials: The Microsoft findings; Chancellor Crew's report card; budget skirmishes; a pop quiz for Mr. Bush.
Columns: Frank Rich.
 
Bridge B17
 
TV Listings B18
 
Crossword B14
 
Weather C16
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); ASIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: EGYPTAIR HOLDING CO (50%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); ASIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); NAVIES (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (67%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (60%); CITIES (55%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (54%); CURRENCIES (50%); DEVALUATION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



125 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: The Microsoft Findings

 BODY:
Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's long-awaited conclusions in the Microsoft antitrust case were labeled as simple "findings of fact." But by declaring that the software giant built by Bill Gates had ruthlessly stifled competition and harmed consumers, Judge Jackson went further than most experts expected in declaring Microsoft guilty of misconduct as a monopoly. Mr. Gates and his stunned aides indicated that they intended to appeal the decision. But the sweeping nature of the finding suggests that Judge Jackson wants to provoke settlement talks between Microsoft and the government on possible remedies. A settlement would let the court avoid ordering a breakup of a company that has helped drive the growth of the American economy.
The long Microsoft trial yielded some riveting moments. But nothing in the trial was as dramatic as Judge Jackson's 207-page document. The case began as a Justice Department accusation that Microsoft's tying of its own browser to its Windows operating system was an attempt to stifle the rival browser produced by Netscape. Then Justice broadened the case by bringing in what it said was misconduct by Microsoft against other rivals and competitors. The most striking aspect of Judge Jackson's decision was that he accepted these other examples, declaring that the company had, as a factual matter, engaged in anti-competitive conduct against Netscape, I.B.M., Compaq and other giants in the computer and software business. 
 It remains now for Judge Jackson to lay out his findings as to possible violations of the law by Microsoft. These particulars should suggest whether the misconduct found by the judge requires a limited remedy of sanctions against the company, directives that it stop certain of its business practices, a much more radical restructuring or even breakup of the company.
As a practical matter, the task of drawing a sensible road map toward achieving a fully competitive playing field in the computer software business, one that encourages fair competition and rewards innovation, requires the cooperation of the best minds from Microsoft itself. That is why Mr. Gates must now ponder whether it is in the interest of his shareholders to fight the Justice Department with more appeals or enter into discussions that achieve these goals and also enhance the owners' investment in the company. Microsoft should fight for its rights under the law, but it should also recognize the sweeping nature of the government's victory. Certain facts about its behavior have now been established, and it is in everyone's best interest to achieve a solution. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; EDITORIALS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); MISCONDUCT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNET BROWSERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, THOMAS PENFIELD (JUDGE) BILL GATES (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



126 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VERSUS MICROSOFT: NEW ANALYSIS;
Clear Finding in Blunt Language

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
With a 207-page legal document, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson has fashioned a club and wielded it against the Microsoft Corporation.
In findings of fact that echo almost every one of the Government's accusations in its sweeping antitrust suit against the big software maker, Judge Jackson has concluded that Microsoft is a monopolist that time and again bullied other companies in the computer industry, harming consumers and hindering innovation. 
 "It's a bad day for Microsoft," observed William Kovacic, a professor at the George Washington University law school. "The judge relentlessly accepted the Government's story of what happened."
At times, Judge Jackson used carefully calibrated legal prose, but at the end of his findings he shifted to uncommonly blunt language.
Microsoft's actions, he said, conveyed the message that the company would use "its prodigious market power and immense profits to harm any firm" that chooses to compete with the company's mainstay products -- especially its corporate crown jewel, the Windows operating system, which acts as the equivalent of the central nervous system in more than 85 percent of personal computers sold today.
Before the findings of fact were released yesterday evening, legal experts had expected that Judge Jackson would generally favor the Government but also nod on occasion in Microsoft's direction. He had suggested in the past that he would prefer to broker an out-of-court settlement between Microsoft and the Government. Such an outcome would relieve the Federal courts of the burden of having to make fine-tuned decisions about products and business practices in the Internet economy.
A settlement is still a possibility -- but only, it seems, if William H. Gates, the company chairman, and his top lieutenants decide that Judge Jackson has done what no industry competitor ever accomplished: brought Microsoft to its knees.
Yet with these findings, antitrust experts say it is more likely that Microsoft will persevere, hoping that Judge Jackson's final ruling is not such a one-sided rout as yesterday's document might seem to portend. The company's next step might then be to appeal his decision to a federal appeals court and then perhaps the Supreme Court.
"If the judge's goal was settlement, he would have to leave enough ambiguity in the findings of fact so that neither side sees it as in its self interest to fight this to the bitter end," observed Herbert Hovenkamp, a professor at the University of Iowa law school, who is a leading antitrust scholar and is advising the Government.
There seems little that is ambiguous in Judge Jackson's document. "Having gone this far, I don't see Microsoft settling," said Andrew Gavil, a professor at the Howard University law school.
The judge's findings of fact are preliminary step and not a final ruling. But they form the all-but-unshakable foundation and framework for the outcome of the case -- either a legal judgment or a settlement. A court's legal judgment can be routinely overruled by a higher court on appeal. But findings of fact can be overturned only in the rare instance when the higher court finds a "blatant contradiction" between the written record of the case and a judge's finding.
"Judge Jackson has poured a lot of concrete here," said Mr. Kovacic of George Washington University.
The scope of the defeat that Microsoft suffered yesterday is illustrated by the way Judge Jackson dealt with one of the Government's main allegations: that Microsoft had tied its Web-browser software to its industry-standard Windows operating system merely to thwart the challenge posed by Internet software makers, especially the Netscape Communications Corporation, the commercial pioneer in software used for browsing the World Wide Web.
Microsoft had replied that it simply made a product-design decision to include browsing software in Windows, rather than make it a separate product. The company noted that it had added new features to Windows over the years, a strategy that it said had helped consumers by making computers easier to use.
Indeed, this product-tying claim by the Justice Department and 19 states who jointly sued Microsoft had appeared to suffer a sharp setback shortly after the suit was filed in May 1998. A month later, a federal appeals court ruled in a related case that Microsoft should be free to blend its browser into Windows as long as it can make a "plausible claim" of business efficiency or consumer benefit from doing so.
Despite the very high hurdle the appeals court had put in the way of a product-tying claim, Judge Jackson proceeded to find one. "In conclusion," he wrote on that subject, "the preferences of consumers and the responsive behavior of software firms demonstrate that Web browsers and operating systems are separate products." After reviewing Microsoft internal E-mail and licensing deals, he concluded that Microsoft had decided to "bind" its browser to Windows and give it away free mainly to hobble its rival Netscape "rather than for any pro-competitive purpose."
As his product-tying finding showed, Judge Jackson has accepted not only the Government's version of events but also its theory of the case. The Justice Department had consistently argued that while Microsoft operated in the high-technology economy, it was an old-fashioned monopolist. The practices at issue, the Government charged, are similar to those used since the turn-of-the-century days of smoke-filled railroad cars -- threats and restrictive business contracts forced on other companies.
Microsoft argued that the Government was launching an assault on the company's right to make its own product decisions, protect its own intellectual property and innovate as it saw fit. And the Government, Microsoft insisted, simply did not understand how the fast-paced software business worked.
But Judge Jackson agreed with the Government, and found Microsoft to be an old-fashioned monopolist. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) MICROSOFT CORP (94%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); JUDGES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (70%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); NEW ECONOMY (63%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



127 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VERSUS MICROSOFT: THE REACTION;
Conceding Nothing, Gates Sees Finding As Only One Step

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash., Nov. 5

 BODY:
Smiling stiffly, conceding no predatory behavior whatsoever and insisting that Microsoft's actions had in fact "brought tremendous benefits to millions of consumers," William H. Gates defiantly took issue this evening with a federal judge's finding that the company had engaged in monopolistic behavior.
With the company he co-founded in 1975 under siege from the government, Mr. Gates appeared at a news conference at Microsoft headquarters here barely an hour after Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson issued his finding. 
 While repeating assertions that Microsoft has always "wanted nothing more than to resolve this case," Mr. Gates, the chairman of the company, yielded no apparent ground on which a settlement might be reached.
"Microsoft competes vigorously and fairly," Mr. Gates said. "Americans should wish that every business was as competitive as the personal computer business."
There was little attempt to put a good face on the judge's findings, which Justice Department officials in Washington were hailing as a smashing victory for their side and for consumers across the country and even around the world.
Instead, the word throughout Microsoft was that this was simply a step in a process that is far from being resolved.
"To try to pick a winner, I think, is a dangerous business in any lawsuit, just like it is in a 9-inning ballgame or a 12-round championship fight," said William H. Neukom, Microsoft's general counsel and the architect of the company's legal strategy.
Anyone with even glancing knowledge of what the judge found would have the sense, here on the Microsoft campus, that Mr. Gates and other officials were looking at the same situation and seeing it in almost diametrically opposite terms.
Asked what the ruling would do to the company's stock when it resumes trading on Monday, Mr. Gates smiled and said: "Microsoft is not a prognosticator of the stock market -- not up, not down, not sideways. We're in the business of creating software."
Mr. Gates said he had spent the past several days in the midst of one of his so-called "think weeks," in which he typically retreats to a remote location and contemplates long-term strategy for improving existing products and developing new ones.
Mr. Gates seemed to make a point of saying that that would remain his main focus. "What we get excited about is building great software."
Microsoft's chief operating officer, Bob Herbold, asked whether the company was developing any contingency plans in case it ultimately faced drastic judicial remedies such as a forced breakup, vigorously shook his head no. He declined to speculate on any such remedies.
Said Mr. Neukom: "We continue to be fully confident that the law is favorable to the defense we have organized. We expect that at the end of the judicial process, Microsoft's position will be fully vindicated."
He also described the company as "not anti-competitive but pro-competitive," and added: "Microsoft does not live the so-called quiet life of a monopolist."
Mr. Gates, in a statement to reporters, said: "This lawsuit is fundamentally about one question: can a successful American company continue to improve its products for the benefit of consumers? That is precisely what Microsoft did by developing new versions of the Windows operating system with built-in support for the Internet.
"Paul Allen and I started Microsoft with the simple idea that technology can improve people's lives," he continued. "Over the past 25 years, Microsoft has helped create a broad industry of literally thousands of companies."
Microsoft's response was part of the prolonged and sometimes controversial public-relations offensive that the company has been conducting since the Justice Department started pursuing an antitrust action.
The company has repeatedly defended its actions. While government lawyers have portrayed the software maker as a rapacious monopolist, charging among other things that Microsoft has bundled its Internet browser to the Windows operating system as part of a predatory pricing scheme, the company said it was simply trying to make its products as user-friendly as possible. Windows is the dominant operating system, found in almost 9 of every 10 computers.
"There's a central principle in this lawsuit, and we have stood up for our ability to integrate new functionality, new capability into our products," Greg Shaw, a Microsoft spokesman, said today.
Microsoft has moved aggressively in advertising and lobbying blitzes, and even on its Web site, to rebut the government's case. The main page of the Web site, for instance, has a description of its "Freedom to Innovate Network," which it describes as a "nonpartisan, grass-roots network of citizens and business who have a stake in the success of Microsoft and the high-tech industry."
The pitch continues: "If you support the Freedom to Innovate, Sign up today! (Click here)"
In the company's depiction, "freedom" involves being able to do things like bundle a Web browser with Windows.
In addition, Microsoft has been lobbying Congress to enact laws that could protect the company in some of the very areas in which it is being sued. In its annual report issued in September, sent to two million shareholders, Mr. Herbold urged shareholders to join the lobbying effort.
Today's findings amount to another step in what is expected to be a fight that could end before the United States Supreme Court.
For Mr. Gates, the battle has taken no small personal toll, as he has watched his reputation as an innovator and business icon become sullied by charges that he is a bully and corporate predator, bent on destroying his competition.
In public, Mr. Gates has been fairly restrained, parsing out all the ways in which he believes the government's case is legally unwarranted and, in fact, most of the message he has tried to project was an optimistic one.
At a hearing in June before the Congressional Joint Economic Committee in Washington,, Mr. Gates waxed enthusiastically about the company's role in wireless networks and electronic commerce, which he said would turn "consumers into big winners."
Asked about the country's antitrust statutes, he said at the hearing that "the laws as they are currently written are fine," but he passed up the opportunity to blast the government, only stating his belief that "things like integration of new features are one of the freedoms companies have" under those laws.
He has also stepped up other activities that have put him in a favorable public light, including huge philanthropic donations for scholarships, libraries and international medical assistance and even an appearance late last year on the "Rosie O'Donnell Show," in which he discussed the intricacies of his then 2 1/2-year-old daughter's experience with potty training.
"She watches 'Once Upon a Potty,' " Mr. Gates told Ms. O'Donnell. "She's getting the concepts down but she's not quite there."
In private, friends have said, Mr. Gates is deeply angry about the government's antitrust action and has portrayed himself as the victim of a vendetta by disgruntled competitors who could not keep up with him and his company. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) MICROSOFT CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); JUDGES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); BASEBALL (76%); LAWYERS (74%); LITIGATION (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: GATES, BILL BILL GATES (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1999



128 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 46; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: The Gnomes of Santa Fe

BYLINE: By John Rothchild; John Rothchild, the author of "A Fool and His Money," writes frequently on financial matters.

 BODY:

THE PREDICTORS
 By Thomas A. Bass.
 309 pp. New York:
 Henry Holt & Company. $25. 
 THOMAS A. BASS has written an engaging account of the short life (so far) of the Prediction Company, owned and operated by maverick physicists in rafting sandals and T-shirts, who baby-sit a computer in Santa Fe, N.M. The computer is programmed to make serious financial bets, with cash provided by a large and once stodgy Swiss bank. That bankers in pinstripes and wingtips have risked sizable sums on this quirky enterprise in the desert says a lot about what's happening on the frontier of finance.
The central characters, Doyne Farmer and Norman Packard, abandoned comfortable jobs (Packard at a university, Farmer at a research lab) to start Prediction in 1991. Both in their 40's, they had few personal assets to draw on. Packard had never owned a house or a new car. Before they could incorporate, they held agonized discussions with the staff about the morality of capitalism. At one strategy session, Packard remarked, "Talking about cash flow, how are we going to pay for our sandwiches?"
They knew next to nothing about the stock and bond markets, but they knew a great deal about chaos theory. Part of an avant-garde of physicists called the Chaos Cabal, Farmer and Packard had studied the helter-skelter of cascading rapids, falling snowflakes, measles epidemics -- even Italian politics. Where traditional scientists saw random turbulence, beyond the scope of "linear" Newtonian analysis, the Chaos Cabal saw intriguing patterns. They could stick a probe into running water at the top end of a pipe and predict the spatter of droplets and spume farther down.
This was interesting to hydraulic engineers, but it wasn't making anybody rich. Then sometime in the mid-1980's, when computers had linked banks, trading floors and investment houses on six continents, and billions of dollars sloshed through cyberspace around the clock, it occurred to Farmer that money flow was a lot like fluid flow. If he and Packard could find patterns in running water, why couldn't they find patterns in the crests, eddies and sinkholes of the Dow Jones industrials, Treasury bonds or Japanese yen? Eureka!
Bass, the author of several books, including "The Eudaemonic Pie" (about Farmer and Packard's scheme to beat the odds in Las Vegas), takes a cue from his subjects and tells the story in nonlinear fashion. With frequent and informative digressions, he moves back and forth from Prediction headquarters to the trading pits of Chicago to recent and ancient attempts to foretell the future ups and downs of markets. Isaac Newton himself, who lost much of his wealth in the London crash of 1720, lamented the inability of his beloved science to predict it. "I can calculate the motion of heavenly bodies, but not the madness of crowds."
Bass takes us forward again to three meetings held in Santa Fe in the late 1980's, where chaos physicists and traditional economists debated theories. The physicists chided the economists for continuing to rely on shopworn Newtonian concepts, the source of rotten forecasting of financial turbulence for nearly three centuries. Farmer gave a speech at the first gathering that intrigued the Citicorp chief executive, John Reed, who was in attendance. Reed's bank was choking on sour third-world loans, and his well-paid economists hadn't warned of this deadbeat debacle.
A long middle stretch of the narrative is devoted to the physicists' search for a partner with a bankroll. Though Reed's Citicorp is an obvious choice, Farmer and Packard decide to knock on other doors. They get serious interest, if not outright offers, from the Bank of America, PaineWebber, Salomon Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Goldman, Sachs and Morgan Stanley. Meanwhile, back at Prediction headquarters, the staff tweaks and twiddles the computer, force-feeding it endless bytes of data, hoping it will regurgitate a betting system that wins. So far, it has made brilliant mock trades in various anachronistic simulations, but as soon as it starts trading in the present, it loses.
A lot of commentators have said Wall Street is like a casino, but "The Predictors" is the best description yet of how futures, options and more esoteric derivatives have turned world finance into a casino. Moreover, the financial casino is attracting the same players who tried to outsmart Las Vegas 25 years ago. Back then, Farmer and Packard stuffed tiny computers into their shoes and began a high-tech attack on the blackjack tables and roulette wheels. Glitches undid them, and they returned to salaried employment. Now, in their search for a bankroll, they reconnect with cronies from the "beat the dealer" days who manage billion-dollar hedge funds. They end up in a partnership with a Chicago trading house, O'Connor & Associates. The boss there, David Weinberger, had earlier used chaos theory to bet on football.
In 1992, as the Prediction Company is absorbed into O'Connor, O'Connor is absorbed into the Swiss Bank Corporation. Conservative bankers are caught up in the casino along with everybody else: betting on blips can be more profitable than banking. Weinberger's minions at O'Connor, mostly 20-something traders, take over top positions in the firm that just bought them, and within a year they've helped turn Swiss Bank into one of the top players in derivatives worldwide. Soon thereafter, Swiss Bank swallows the Union Bank of Switzerland, that nation's largest. Union has got in trouble, proving that betting on blips can also be more dangerous than banking.
At this point, Prediction's computer is making big bets with the Swiss bankers' money. On the most important point -- results -- Bass is ambiguous. After his exciting buildup, we want to know how much the chaos system has won or lost, and whether it is doing better or worse than George Soros, the Dow Jones industrials or the dartboard. All we learn is that it went on a losing streak and then a hot streak, and that after 1995 it met its quarterly objectives. We never find out what those objectives were. Since Bass got full access to almost everything (he's on the scene through countless meetings, getting long quotations, describing what the physicists think and feel and eat for lunch), perhaps he had to agree in advance not to reveal the bottom line. No matter. I suspect that if the Prediction people have found what Bass calls the holy grail of market forecasting, we'll see Farmer and Packard on the Forbes magazine list of richest Americans. So far, they haven't appeared there. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (69%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (69%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BONDS (89%); WRITERS (78%); PHYSICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); ENGINEERING (69%); CURRENCIES (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (63%); EPIDEMICS (50%); 

PERSON: NORMAN PACKARD (94%); THOMAS A BASS (73%); JOHN REED (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



129 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 4; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: 'Stiffed'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
To state, as Judith Shulevitz does in her review of Susan Faludi's "Stiffed" (Oct. 3), that "you would never know from 'Stiffed' that American economic growth is the highest it's been in a quarter-century and unemployment the lowest" is to miss entirely the key feature of the postindustrial economy. Aggregate economic indicators tell us very little about the lives of working people today. In the global economy, national economic growth and high corporate profits are often built upon a lean and mean workplace with no job security and weakened benefits packages. Unemployment statistics tell us even less. Postindustrial economic fear is not driven by the availability of jobs so much as the nature of the jobs available. People fear that if they get laid off, their next job will not provide adequate wages or benefits. 
 Also, in arguing that addressing "the plight of the male blue-collar worker" requires him "to change, to develop qualities he might not have thought of as masculine, like the ability to communicate effectively, as well as . . . entrepreneurial skill," Shulevitz serves only to blame the victim. The basic underlying issue is that employers in the postindustrial economy have discovered a way to rid themselves of that pesky social contract America once had in the postwar period.
 
Nancy Wiefek
State College, Pa. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: STIFFED (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); LITERATURE (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (51%); 

PERSON: SHULEVITZ, JUDITH; WIEFEK, NANCY; FALUDI, SUSAN SUSAN FALUDI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



130 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 8; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Development In Chelsea

 BODY:

To the Editor:
I am a former member of Manhattan Community Board No. 5 and my current duties directly impact upon more than 1 million rent-regulated units housing nearly 3 million New York City tenants. As such I was astounded by the statement by Kevin A. Finnegan, co-chairman of Community Board No. 5's land-use and zoning committee "In the Flower District, a Crop of High-Rises, Oct. 10 that the 2,000 apartments planned for Chelsea will cause rents to rise and thus accelerate the pressure on existing Chelsea tenants. This statement exemplifies the muddled reasoning that has afflicted this city's urban planning for far too long. 
 Residential/commercial development certainly may raise quality of life concerns. It may increase vehicular and pedestrian traffic, generate more noise and garbage due to ancillary services, strain existing schools and subway stations, block sunlight, etc. Still, the one thing that masses of additional apartments will not do is to cause demand/prices for existing units to rise. Indeed, it is elemental (and instinctive to those familiar with New York City's tight housing market) that thousands and thousands of new units are needed to relieve competition for existing ones.
The demand for housing south of 96th Street in Manhattan arguably is more acute than ever before. Unless Mr. Finnegan and others intend to insist that only they have a right to live in those highly desirable neighborhoods, I suggest he welcome such development rather than condemn it with proclamations that can't withstand even the most mild economic analysis.
 
EDWARD S. HOCHMAN
Chairman
New York City
Rent Guidelines Board
Manhattan 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CITIES (72%); ZONING (72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (53%); 

PERSON: KEVIN A FINNEGAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



131 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Altered Itineraries As the World Heats Up

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
IT probably isn't necessary to cancel or change vacation plans just yet, but global warming -- if it develops as forecast -- promises in time to revise travelers' lists of preferred destinations.
A warmer, more pleasant England, for instance, might replace an extremely hot Greece as a summer vacation spot of choice. Beachgoers, skiers, scuba divers, autumn leaf-peepers, anglers and just plain sightseers all may have to find new places to go, and some of today's prized destinations may wither as new ones blossom. 
 Or so says a recent study conducted for the World Wildlife Fund by the Climatic Research Unit of the University of East Anglia in England.
The average annual surface temperature of the globe has already risen by about 1 degree or a little more over the last century; in many parts of the Northern Hemisphere, the warming has been much greater.
Computer models of the atmosphere forecast a further rise of 2 to 6 degrees over the next century, with a best estimate of about 3.5 degrees, if industry and motor vehicles continue to spew heat-trapping carbon dioxide into the air at today's rates. By comparison, the world is 5 to 9 degrees warmer now than in the depths of the last ice age 18,000 to 20,000 years ago.
Some regions would warm more, some less, and some may actually cool. But in any region where the average annual temperature rises, climate experts say, high summer temperatures are expected to become even higher. In general, climatic zones would shift northward in the Northern Hemisphere, southward in the Southern, and from lower to higher altitudes globally. And everywhere, the sea level would rise -- by about 20 inches globally over the century, according to best estimates -- with potentially grave consequences for beach resorts.
Projections of this sort are inherently chancy, but they are all that scientists have to go on. So the climate experts at East Anglia used computer models to look at the possible effect of global warming on 10 of the world's favorite tourist destinations over the next century. And while the study was geared toward Britons, it has relevance for Americans, as well.
Some of the findings:
* Rising seas and a subsequent increase in beach erosion could eliminate many beaches and even submerge large parts of some popular islands, like the Maldives. Florida could be particularly vulnerable to beach erosion, the study said. Some Caribbean islands could be similarly affected, said David Viner, a co-author of the study.
* Higher temperatures could kill coral ecosystems, eliminating scuba-diving meccas from the Caribbean to the Maldives.
* Ski resorts at lower elevations, like those at Garmisch in Germany and Kitz buhel in Austria, might suffer from less snow, causing skiers to crowd higher-elevation resorts. Similar shifts could take place in North America.
* Rising temperatures could encourage the spread of malaria from North Africa to southern Spain.
* Hotter summers in the eastern Mediterranean, where the number of days with temperatures higher than 100 degrees would increase, may discourage summer visits to Greece and Turkey. But summer weather in England should become warmer and more reliable, encouraging many Britons to stay home and attracting more foreign visitors.
In many tourist areas, the study said, warmer temperatures might stimulate disease outbreaks, more forest fires and more air pollution.
A warming climate, Mr. Viner said, could shift the range of some sport fish; in the United States, anglers pursuing these fish make major contributions to local economies. Trout and salmon, for instance, are cold-water fish, and previous studies have shown that their habitat and range could be substantially reduced as streams warm up. On the other hand, the range of warm-water species like bass could expand.
Studies have also suggested that in New England, trees with relatively dull fall colors, like oaks and hickories, could eventually move up from the Middle Atlantic and replace the brilliant maples that draw crowds of foliage admirers every autumn.
How soon might these consequences be felt? Assuming the forecasts are reasonably accurate, it depends largely on whether climate change proceeds smoothly or in abrupt temperature jumps.
One example of how global warming might be a mixed blessing: In Alaska, where substantial warming has already taken place, the tourist season has been lengthened. But if it gets warm enough, the thawing of Alaska could eliminate many of the subarctic charms that make it so attractive. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); MALDIVES (90%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (75%); GREECE (73%); AUSTRIA (70%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (57%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (57%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); MALDIVES (90%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (75%); GREECE (73%); AUSTRIA (70%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); BEACHES (89%); SKIING (89%); RESORTS (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); SCUBA DIVING (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); WATER SPORTS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); SKIING FACILITIES (71%); SPORT FISHING (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); EROSION (68%); MALARIA (60%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID VINER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



132 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 3; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2339 words

HEADLINE: CHOICE TABLES;
Chicago's New Fare: French, Mexican, Flamboyant

BYLINE: By DENNIS RAY WHEATON; DENNIS RAY WHEATON is the chief dining critic at Chicago magazine.

 BODY:
IN a thriving local economy punctuated by the clamor of new construction near the Loop, Chicago is enjoying a surge in fine restaurants. French food or cuisine with strong French underpinnings is in the vanguard. In neighborhoods where Italian trattorias have long been as regularly spaced as mailboxes, everyday-priced bistros now also dot the landscape.
The chefs at five of the best new places also own their establishments. They represent a generation of local talent that has been enormously influenced by Chicago's culinary pioneers -- Charlie Trotter, Rick Bayless, Gordon Sinclair and Jean Joho among them -- in whose kitchens they honed their skills. 

Tru
The most acclaimed, spectacular -- and expensive -- restaurant to hit Chicago in years, Tru has further energized the already flourishing dining scene in the affluent Streeterville neighborhood downtown. The soaring white room boasts large, well-spaced tables and original art (with works by Mapplethorpe and Warhol, among others). Museum-style glass cases display seasonal produce, on one visit an abundance of late-season Tuscan black truffles. Other notable design touches include padded stools for resting purses tableside and frosted-glass automatic sliding doors muffling the bustle from the huge high-tech kitchen. Yet the atmosphere is lighthearted, and the staff couldn't be more accommodating.
What is most captivating about Tru is the irrepressible creative energy of Rick Tramonto and Gale Gand, the married couple who own the restaurant in partnership with deep-pocketed Rich Melman of the Lettuce Entertain You restaurant empire. After winning accolades for their work in London and New York, Ms. Gand and Mr. Tramonto joined forces at a number of establishments in the Chicago area, opening Tru this year. Mr. Tramanto oversees the savory side of the menu, while Ms. Gand handles desserts; both create delicious original dishes that look as if they belong in an art museum.
Steeped in French technique, Mr. Tramonto also knows his way around Italian and Asian cuisines. A good example is his seared hamachi (yellowtail) served in a little pool of tomato reduction and topped with sweated onions and bracing freshly grated wasabi.
Ingenious creations illustrate the playful, sensuous luxury of Tru's multiple-course a la carte and tasting menus -- often in startling juxtapositions that show more than a bit of the prankster. On one visit, a trio of cleverly garnished fish tartares were served on a polished mirror; another time they were in a large martini glass positioned in a bowl of water around which swam a flamboyant blue Siamese fighting fish. A theatrical curved glass staircase holds on each step one of four different caviars or traditional garnishes. Mr. Tramonte likes to serve frothy "cappuccino" soups, on one visit an ethereal creamless cauliflower and truffle blend, in exquisite Versace cups.
Mr. Tramonto also thinks up new ways to boost foie gras; a recent stunner was an aspic-coated terrine of foie gras with truffle butter and peppered pineapple relish. Venison with chocolate sauce and a robust rutabaga puree is an adventure for meat lovers. A rare off-note was a black truffle risotto studded with diced lobster and fava beans; the rice was several stirs shy of perfection in texture.
Tru's broadly priced 450-bottle list is impressive for such a new restaurant, but our party of four let the sommelier, R. Scott Tyree, recommend wines by the glass.
Ms. Gand's seasonal fruit creations are excellent, and she revels in humorous plays on American sweets. Pairing a gooey chocolate fudge tart and caramelized banana with cabernet caramel sauce and peanut butter ice cream to evoke peanut butter and jelly, she elevates quintessential childhood flavors to a high-wire act. But then, the whole experience at Tru is a culinary Cirque du Soleil.
 
Grace
Yes, that's a halo on the logo of Grace, the latest entry in the flowering of upscale restaurants in the Market District just west of Chicago's Loop. It's a softly lighted, sleek space done in grays and browns with exposed brick muted by sheer curtains. Some tables, butcher paper-topped over a white cloth, are shoehorned in so tightly that they require a contortionist's skill to navigate.
Grace is packed nightly with a stylish crowd in dark suits or cool casual attire savoring the robustly flavored food of Ted Cizma, the chef and owner. Mr. Cizma offers several game dishes nightly; they are typically served with well-balanced, fruit and herb flavored sauces, as are the appealing seafood choices. A recent gratis opener was cold smoked boar finished with white peach relish and red pepper coulis.
On a recent evening, an appetizer of crisp lamb sweetbread nuggets with lamb jus was terrific on its bed of wilted bitter greens dotted with Maytag blue goat cheese. A warm lobster salad offered big morsels of the tender crustacean along with baby beet tops and lotus root accented with shellfish oil. For the main course, sliced wood-grilled saddle of rabbit garnished with fresh figs and sauteed spinach was brightened with a fragrant parsley puree. Juicy, mellow wild boar showed up again, this time herb-crusted, grilled and set over polenta seasoned with cheddar, cinnamon, and chilies surrounded by nectarine compote. Tuna grilled rare came on whole wheat noodles with a zingy crushed peanut and horseradish vinaigrette.
For dessert, a satiny huckleberry goat's-milk cheesecake answered a berry lover's prayers, but a strawberry-mint mascarpone tart was burdened by a soggy crust. The 100-selection list includes good half bottles, such as a brisk, toasty Murphy-Goode Fume Blanc Alexander Valley Reserve ($15) that perfectly graced the lobster and tuna.
 
Ixcapuzalco
An English speaker's tongue tangles trying to pronounce the name (EEKS-cah-pu-SAL-co), but this restaurant offers terrific regional Mexican food. It's a lively storefront with a yellow awning in the Logan Square neighborhood northwest of the Loop, which is still gritty but gradually being gentrified. Geno Bahena, formerly of Frontera Grill, has now set up his own shop.
Mr. Bahena's cooking and presentation fall somewhere between the casual air of Rick Bayless's Frontera Grill and the more refined style of his adjoining Topolobampo. The aroma of the earthy herb epazote filled the air as my wife and I entered the bouncing cedar-paneled 40-seat room, which once housed a gyro joint. Dramatic Mexican masks look out from over the tiny open red-tiled kitchen; the walls are adorned by vivid original paintings by Oscar Romero and reproductions of Frida Kahlo's works, with a backing of romantic Mexican ballads. Flowers, copper plates and big carved wooden chairs add to the charm. A shot of premium mescal and a fine margarita, shaken tableside, made perfect openers.
Mr. Bahena hails from the Pacific Mexican state of Guerrero, one of the most purely Indian regions of Mexico. Ixcapuzalco is his hometown, where he was raised on his family's ranch and orchard; a number of the cooks are also from there.
Oaxaca is known as the "Land of the Seven Moles," and Ixcapuzalco features each on a different day. Mr. Bahena sends out his moles bathing a choice of chicken or duck breast, and sometimes also quail or fish.
We tried Sunday's mole negro with medium rare duck breast; the deeply fragrant complexity of the sauce, which is almost black and spicy-sweet, is explained by 20 different ingredients, including several kinds of dried chilies, sesame seeds, plantains and cinnamon-flavored Mexican chocolate. That black mole was so good that I decided to work my way eventually through all seven, including Friday's dark red mole made from Mr. Bahena's grandmother's recipe.
In his other dishes, Mr. Bahena also favors poultry. Pheasant marinated in adobo spices is served with roasted tomato sauce and red-chili enchiladas. The leg was tough but the breast was perfect.
Mr. Bahena knows his way around seafood. A scintillating grilled cactus salad featured smoked tuna with roasted poblano and smoky chipotle chilies, and splendid Guerrero-style ceviche made with lime-marinated marlin arrived atop crisp tortilla triangles along with manzanilla olives, tomato, cilantro and serrano chilies.
A warm individual pineapple upside cake was lovely with brown butter caramel, mango ice cream and a generous scattering of blueberries. From the brief but well-matched wine list, we chose a fresh red Italian Barbera d'Alba Grasso ($24) from the great 1997 vintage.
 
MK The Restaurant
 Michael Kornick was a pioneer in revitalizing the old Market District before going to the Four Seasons Hotel in Boston and other top posts. Now he is luring a fashionable food-loving crowd to the still rather bleak but up-and-coming far north end of River North with his new restaurant, MK. Once a paint warehouse, the interior has been done in soothing shades of tan, cream and charcoal with exposed brick and original wood trusses under angled skylights.
Mr. Kornick likes artisanal cheeses and incorporates them into several appetizers. Rich ravioli, filled with melted chevre produced by Laura Chenel in Sonoma County, had a buttery sauce with rosemary and organic tomatoes; a zesty Belgian endive and French bean salad with toasted pecans and apples featured Carles brand Roquefort. I also savored coarsely minced tuna tartare on tangy celery root remoulade, accompanied with anchovies, capers and oil-cured olives.
While slabs of foie gras seem as common as exposed bricks these days in fine restaurants, not so old-fashioned calf's liver. But Mr. Kornick handles it masterfully, sauteing thin slices and serving them in a explosively pungent sauce of stone-ground mustard and 25-year-old balsamic vinegar under crisp applewood-smoked bacon and savory "burnt" Vidalia onions. I'm seeing a lot of guinea hens on Chicago menus, few better than MK's herbal pan-roasted beauty served with a Tuscan bread salad flavored with Lucini olive oil, basil and garlic.
A full-bodied 1995 Gigondas by Aline Bonfils ($38) stood up to both entrees.
Michael Kornick wisely brought over his pastry chef, Mindy Segal, from Marche, where he worked previously. She makes for a stellar ending with her cleverly fashioned desserts, such as the petite banana cream pie in a chocolate shell accompanied by a little banana-mascarpone cake with banana sherbet.
 
Savarin
The best new explicitly French restaurant to open lately in Chicago is the year-old Savarin, named for the celebrated French gastronome Anthelme Brillat-Savarin. It is a serious restaurant that focuses the mind on what's on the plate, helped along by a decor of gilt-frame mirrors on forest green walls, white pillars and woodwork, as well as an excellent service staff.
John Hogan has for years been among the finest French-oriented chefs in the city. Savarin moves from lovingly executed bistro classics -- onion soup, salade lyonnaise, braised rabbit, poulet grand-mere -- to more elevated and original French cuisine.
Satiny chicken liver pate is often a complimentary opener. Still, we always carefully consider the daily foie gras preparation -- perhaps stuffed with cabbage into a ballotine of boned pheasant and served with a slab of seared foie gras in an intense port-truffle sauce; or seared with French butter pears, caramelized pepper and a Gewurztraminer reduction. Another favorite is the triangle of delicate crab mousse wrapped in slices of smoked sturgeon.
For the main course we always look at the plat du jour; on a recent Wednesday I lucked into duck breast roasted medium rare paired with mahogany-brown braised leg and thigh and served with turnips and prunes in an Armagnac sauce. My companion enjoyed peerless bistro steak frites, the steak topped with parsley butter and buried in a haystack of thin crisp fries. Among daily fish offerings in the past year were whole turbotin (small turbot) braised with vermouth and fine herbs and seared sea scallops in a truffled broth with chanterelles and baby spinach leaves.
From a large, well-chosen wine list we selected a fine light 1997 Morgon DuBoeuf Beaujolais ($25).
When it is available, I order Wendy Kaplan's sauteed pear napoleon with goat cheese ice cream. As with most everything on the menu at Savarin, it's a real chore to find a disappointment.
 
Bill of fare
All these restaurants accept major credit cards. At Grace, MK and Savarin, smoking is allowed only in the bar or lounge. Tru permits no smoking at all; Ixcapuzalco is planning to open a separate room for smokers on Tuesday.
Reservations are essential at Tru -- two months ahead is not too soon for weekends and for the kitchen table -- and strongly recommended at the others.
Except for Tru, dinner prices are for two with a modest bottle of wine, but not tax or tip.
Grace, 623 West Randolph Street, (312) 928-9200. Dinner Monday through Saturday, lunch Monday through Friday. Valet parking ($7). Dinner for two, about $100.
Ixcapuzalco, 2919 North Milwaukee Avenue, (773) 486-7340. Lunch and dinner daily except Tuesday. Parking is usually available on the street. Dinner for two, about $80.
MK The Restaurant, 868 North Franklin Street, (312) 482-9179. Lunch Monday through Friday; dinner daily. Dinner for two, about $110.
Savarin, 713 North Wells Street, (312) 255-9520. Dinner daily, about $100.
Tru, 676 North St. Clair Street, (312) 202-0001. Dinner Monday through Saturday. Valet parking. Tru has several menus. A three-course prix fixe menu costs $70 a person. Four tasting menus, called "collections," of six to nine courses range from $75 (all vegetable) to $125 for a spontaneous chef's collection "designed to create sensory overload." The kitchen table, seating four to six, costs $150 a person. Wines start around $45 a bottle. Jackets are required. For parking in this dense urban area, valets will have your name in their own reservation book; the cost is a steep $8, but your car will be curbside when you leave.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: MK The Restaurant occupies a former paint warehouse. (Photographs by Paul Merideth for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Grace's wild boar with seasoned polenta and nectarine compote. The soaring interior of Tru. (Photographs by Paul Merideth for The New York Times)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESTAURANTS (91%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); 

PERSON: GALE GAND (68%); RICK TRAMONTO (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



133 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 83; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4464 words

HEADLINE: Integration Anxiety

BYLINE: By Lise Funderburg; Lise Funderburg is writing a book about race and class in integrated communities.

 BODY:
'How many of you who are white think about being white all the time?" asks Michelle Fine, speaking to a racially integrated class of seventh graders last spring at Renaissance Middle School in Montclair, N.J. Fine, a white woman and Montclair resident, is a nationally regarded social psychologist who specializes in education issues. Today she's wrapping up an oral history course she has volunteered to teach along with the school's principal, Bernadette Anand.
For nine weeks, these students have considered nothing less than the meaning of race in Montclair as they have documented the town's 40-year history of school desegregation. They have interviewed residents, reviewed court cases, read mountains of newspaper clippings and watched segments of the civil rights documentary "Eyes on the Prize." Yet none of these students connect to feeling white, and Fine's question is met with silence. She tries a different tack. 
"White kids, when you go into a store, do you feel like you are white?"
Dust particles drift into the rays of light spilling through the classroom's tall, arched windows. Students look down at their desks and stare into space. Finally, Kendra Urdang, a white girl with a South African mother and a Canadian father, answers yes, sometimes, when she's in a store filled with black people. No one else speaks. Fine tries again.
"Kids who are African-American," she says, "when you go into a store, are you reminded about being black?"
Suddenly, several students leap from their chairs, clamoring to give examples of local stores where they have been followed, searched, accused of stealing, asked to leave. Daryl Shelton, a serious-faced 12-year-old, names a toy shop in town, and three other black students nod their heads vigorously, "mm-hmming" in recognition.
"I was with him, right?" Daryl begins, pointing to his best friend in school, a tall white boy named Kyle O'Donnell. Kyle's mother was giving Daryl a ride home when she stopped for an errand. All the kids piled out of the car. "His younger sister went into this store," Daryl says. "Then when I try to go in, I can't. They always bring up, 'You have to be 18 or older."'
In most cities and towns across the country, Daryl's tale of being singled out because he's black would be regarded as sad but not surprising. But this is Montclair, a suburban enclave 12 miles west of New York City that is renowned for being racially and socioeconomically integrated, for welcoming everyone who is willing to mow their lawns and pay their taxes. That reputation has attracted blacks and whites -- including the presidential hopeful Bill Bradley -- who have chosen not to default into more common patterns of racial segregation. In most of the country's metropolitan areas, 79 percent of whites and 33 percent of blacks live exclusively among members of their own racial groups: they borrow sugar from people who would check the same box on a census form or file in the same tax bracket.
All Americans are going to have to face integration sooner or later, whether they want to or not. Although in the 1990 United States census, whites made up 84 percent of the population, some demographers now project that this figure will drop to 50 percent in the next half-century. People can retreat to only so many gated communities, themed dorms and homogenous executive lounges.
For more than a century, Montclair residents have struggled to live the integrated life. When newcomers buy houses, they often assume that they have put a down payment on diversity. Yet once you get past the Kumbaya hype, self-congratulatory civic boosterism and media accolades, stories like Daryl's appear with disturbing frequency. Montclair's experience, then, holds lessons for the rest of the nation. Diversity is still a concept very much under construction here.
No one has defined what constitutes a truly integrated community. But Montclair (pop. 36,313) is a serious contender. In a landmark study published last year, researchers for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) identified some of the characteristics that undergird a "successful, stable, racially and ethnically diverse" neighborhood. Montclair fits HUD's criteria; it has, among other things, a mixed racial balance since at least 1980 and the willingness of residents to identify their community as diverse.
During the last 30 years, while other communities became all black or all white as industrial decline, white flight and gentrification took their toll, Montclair has remained roughly 30 percent black and 65 percent white. A varied housing stock has helped preserve its socioeconomic mix. Home prices may average $334,000, but rambling Victorians with sprawling lawns often stand a stone's throw from apartment buildings and tiny clapboard homes where more than 2,200 people live below the poverty line. And while most of the town's poor are black, many of its middle- and upper-class residents are black as well.
Like many of the towns and neighborhoods in the HUD study, Montclair is older and physically attractive and has more than its share of amenities. It has a nationally recognized art museum, four movie houses, six theaters, four bookstores, 48 religious congregations, 154 acres of parkland, Montclair State University and a heavenly fried porgy sandwich made to order at the Fin and Feather. And while it's a point of civic pride -- and of tax-revenue woe -- that Montclair has no mall, it does have five shopping districts, a Gap and two Starbucks.
Culture, food and lattes may boost the community's appeal, particularly to integration-tolerant ex-urbanites (and a stunning number of celebrities, from the tap dancer Savion Glover to the makeup mogul Bobbi Brown, as well as Bill Bradley). But it's the enduring mix of race and class that sets Montclair apart from prototypical suburbia. "Racial and economic exclusion continue to be hallmarks of suburbanization," writes W. Dennis Keating in "The Suburban Racial Dilemma." Although most residents will argue that the town has yet to achieve the physical, social and spiritual integration Martin Luther King Jr. once described as "the beloved community," hardly any of its streets are totally racially isolated.
The HUD study also notes that in diverse communities, schools typically offer a rallying point for people to come together -- the place where "social seams" are stitched together. And indeed, Montclair's 11 public schools are perhaps the town's most integrated institutions. Thanks to zealous compliance with a 1976 state-levied desegregation order, the district's 5,930 students all have significant exposure to kids of different races and classes. Montclair operates a "controlled choice" program that relies on magnet schools, a lottery and town-subsidized busing. And unlike a similar, recently abandoned program in Boston, it has largely gone undisputed over the years. But the schools are also where the pressures on racial harmony are the greatest, threatening to fray those seams beyond repair.
"I need seats in the middle," Michelle Fine calls out, trying to make room for Marvyn Rice, today's guest and one of 25 black parents who successfully brought suit against the school district in the mid-1960's. Rice is among a parade of subjects, most of them still Montclair residents, whom Fine and Bernadette Anand have invited to the school and whose stories have helped personalize the abstractions of the town's history for students.
Volunteers bring chairs into the center of the room with an eagerness that probably won't last into high school. Rice responds generously to students' questions, carefully unfolding rich anecdotes. Between inquirers, she sits primly, hands folded in her lap. "I just want to mention that Mrs. Rice is a real, live hero," Fine says, when the students have exhausted the list of scripted questions. "So take the moment!"
Those involved in the early days of school desegregation in Montclair still shudder at the battles fought. "Those were Armageddon arguments," Montclair's mayor, William Farlie, remembers. But in those days, the principle at stake -- that barriers to equal education should be removed -- bore a noble, if nave, simplicity. Nowadays things are messier. Fully sharing power and resources across race and class lines -- often called relational diversity -- is something no one has done before. The skirmishes over educational access that fill P.T.A. meetings and op-eds in The Montclair Times are inevitably complex: Is a budget cutback racist, for example, if it affects more blacks than whites? More whites than blacks? Should district resources be dedicated to keeping the school population "stable," which is often code for "middle class" and "not too black?"
Nationwide, Fine says, perceptions of an institution's worth shift depending on whether whites or blacks are in the majority. Consequently, the slight black majority (53 percent) at Montclair High sometimes sets off alarms for real estate agents who show prospective buyers around town and for some white and black parents deciding where to send their children. "There are a lot of whispers about tipping," Fine says, referring to concern over maintaining current racial percentages. "I get calls from friends who say, 'My kid's class is imbalanced.' I know right away that means there are too many black people in the room."
In 1993, for instance, some parents became panicked when Bernadette Anand, then the head of the Montclair High School English department, along with some of her colleagues, devised a world literature class that was open to everyone. By jettisoning prerequisites, world lit renounced the ability-based groupings that in Montclair and across the country too often default into racial equations -- advanced placement equals white; remedial equals black, especially black and male. The town is striving to close the achievement gap between black and white students (which also exists nationally).
To that end, Anand had declared war on "tracked classes," but in so doing, assaulted the protected inner sanctum that allows middle- and upper-middle-class parents to comfortably keep their children in the public schools. After acrimonious debate, the school board voted to go forward with the class, but a swell of parents -- mostly but not all white -- plucked their children from advanced-placement classes and out of the system altogether.
Many liberals in town characterize those who left the system as cloaking their racism in a pro-meritocracy argument. But Brenda Farrow White, an African-American woman whose husband, Herman, was the school board president for two years, and whose children attend Montclair schools, is more generous toward parents who put their own needs in front of larger social justice issues. "Parents are, by nature, not objective when it comes to matters regarding their children," she says. "All that matters to them is what is good for Johnny or Susie. Or Laquesha or Tanesha."
The board of ed also noticed that an increasing number of students -- again, mostly but not exclusively white -- were leaving the district, particularly at the middle-school level. Many transcript requests indicated parochial- or private-school destinations. The white kids were clearly middle and upper middle class. (Montclair's white working-class stronghold virtually disappeared during the 60's and 70's.) But black kids also departed, and administrators surmised that they, too, were from well-heeled families. People in town have come to call this exodus "bright flight," unwittingly equating economic standing and intelligence.
With the explicit goal of "stabilizing" the district, the superintendent and school board opened a third middle school in 1997, which became Renaissance. This one would be smaller than the others -- 75 children per grade versus 200 -- and would offer educational innovations normally identified with private schools. The hope, says Michael Osnato, the superintendent, was that these components would "retain and return" the education-savvy middle class. The school was designed, in other words, by the district to stanch bright flight, but this goal created new tensions.
Anand, for one, was interested in creating a learning environment that valued achievement and equal access for all students. She remembers how white attrition dominated school board discussions. "That's what they cared about," she says. "They felt that if the whites left, the whole town would go down. Then we'd have a whole bunch of blacks here, and I'd be perfectly happy to teach them." Anand's first planning meeting was with Fine, whose older son is now a Renaissance seventh grader. The two women quickly became allies, promoting their vision of the school. "We're people you don't invite to parties," Anand jokes, referring to their fierce commitment to social justice.
Fine says that together they decided that the school would only succeed if its curriculum tapped the talents of every child -- a familiar tenet of progressive education. The tendency to value certain kids over others is so endemic to school systems, Fine insists, "it's in the air-conditioning." Disproportionately, she explains, "kids who have had the cultural capital and the social reinforcements for getting it right tend to be elite kids, and in this town, that means white -- or some middle-class black -- kids. And then kids who learn that they don't quite get it right, who would be more hesitant in the class, who wouldn't feel as entitled to speak their minds, tend to be working-class African-American kids."
In its third year, Renaissance offers rigorous instruction, longer school days, innovative field trips and an extensive community-service program. This is an increasingly complicated endeavor in the jumbled classrooms of Montclair, as a new wave of poorer blacks move into town, and children who can't afford class outings sit next to the children of millionaires. Anand's strategy has proven popular, but at a potentially disturbing price. As of last year, Renaissance was the only middle school in the district with a majority of whites. If the school continues to attract whites disproportionately, Osnato's aim to "recapture the market share" may be met, but Fine counters that the school will have failed in a different way. "What does that say about poor and working-class kids?" she asks. "Are those kids not valued as much?"
Others voice different concerns. One white parent, who describes herself as "an old leftie," complains that Renaissance's good intentions have gone too far. She says her child has "gotten lost" despite Renaissance's small classes and links this neglect to race. "I'm happy that race is an issue in a positive sense, as a topic of discussion," says the woman, who asked not to be identified for the sake of her children. "But there does seem to be a feeling that if your child is white, he or she doesn't need any extra help. Now, it's a correct assumption that if you're white, you're likely to be privileged; but it's also assumed that you don't need any support in learning."
And middle-class whites aren't the only ones who are worried about their kids getting lost. Debra Jennings, 41, says that the African-American parents she knows have different reasons than whites for pulling out of the public schools. "I would say only one out of 10 feel like their supergifted child is not going to be sufficiently challenged," she estimates. "The other nine are worried about teachers' low expectations, particularly if the child is a boy. Those parents will tell you that their child was being painted with a certain brush, and they did not want that to happen."
Jennings has sat on the school board, run for mayor and co-founded a watchdog group called Concerned African American Parents (CAP). She's currently the associate executive director of an education support group, the State wide Parent Advocacy Network. In Montclair, many blacks are reluctant to discuss the tensions of intraracial class divisions, and Jen-nings is known for specifically representing the town's working-class and poor blacks. "There's no such thing as 'bright flight,"' she says with a scowl. "It's 'I-can-afford-it flight."'
On the theory that power lies in the hands of the informed, CAP focuses on information dissemination -- mostly through a quarterly newsletter and a biennial Parents' Expo. Jennings says even white parents rely on CAP's school-budget analyses to understand how money is being spent in the district. Yet communication gaps between the races persist.
Despite Renaissance's explicit mission to raise the bar for everyone, CAP had serious reservations about the district's starting a new middle school. "We had two questions," Jennings recalls. The first was about how, in a year of draconian budget cuts, the district could afford a new program. The second, she says, was why Renaissance didn't do a better job of including poor black parents when planning the school. "There were attempts made to reach out to African-American parents," she concedes, "but most of the parents they reached out to were middle to upper middle class. There was really no outreach to African-American parents who were more typical -- more working and middle class."
Socioeconomic status matters, Jennings says, because wealthier families often have the luxuries of time and resources to lobby on behalf of their children's needs. "When I look at the parents who are at Renaissance," Jennings explains, "I don't criticize them, but almost all have been heavily involved in their children's education. I felt like that kind of energy should have gone into some of the other schools -- because we need more African-American parents in the other schools. We don't need a concentration in one school."
Elliott Lee is part of that concentration. An Ivy League graduate and a senior program officer of a locally based foundation, he has a daughter, Andrea, who is an eighth grader at Renaissance, and has been an involved parent, joining Anand's curriculum development committee and participating in a loosely organized lobby against budget cuts. He has even considered seeking a seat on the school board.
Thirteen years ago, when Lee and his family moved onto a predominantly black street in Montclair, he wasn't prepared for the chilly reception from his new black neighbors. "I thought because we were black and they were black, they would welcome us," he says. "But we weren't just black people, we were the outsiders driving up property values and forcing the old folks out."
Class-consciousness is creeping into all of Montclair, he contends, and no one wants to admit it. "Most people are willing to talk about the folks with resources coming in and supplanting those who've been here a long time," Lee says. "What isn't talked about are the new black folks coming in who aren't well off, trying to get their kids into better schools. That would send the wrong message about Montclair. A lot of people -- white and black, but maybe more white folks -- want Montclair to be less diverse than it is. They want it to be middle class. It's one thing to have poor people who've been here for years, but it's another thing to be known as a place that attracts them."
A teacher's aide walks through the Renaissance hallway last spring, ringing a hand bell to signal the period's end. It's lunchtime, and students in the oral history class lunge for the door. Kids fill their plates -- it's pizza day- and then make a beeline for their seats in the basement cafeteria. Day after day, the long tables fill up according to a carefully worked-out calculus of race and class.
"I sit at the semipopular/unpopular white girls' table," explains Susana Polo cheerfully.
"I think it has to do with the music people listen to," says Trevor Sage-El, the student council president at the time and a biracial boy who sits at the popular black boys' table.
"My friends are 75 percent black and 25 percent white," says Ashley Carter-Robinson, who is black and chooses to sit at a table that's all black and all girl, except when Daryl Shelton's friend Kyle O'Donnell invites himself over, seemingly oblivious to whether he's welcome.
"Four of my black friends sit with us," says Kendra Urdang, "and the rest of us are white at my table. I have mixed friends, but honestly, my best friends, more of them are white because in this school it is a bit more separated. When there's a clique of only black people, one time I went over to that crowd and they just ignored me."
In these social striations, the children are not much different than the adults. Despite all that Montclair has going for it, despite the widely expressed desire for relational integration, if you ask residents, black or white, whether people cross the color line socially, most will say no, not really, or not very often. Maybe at Watchung Booksellers or Sharron Miller's dance studio or the Luna Stage theater -- but they're exceptions. Even supermarkets have the reputation of being patronized along racial lines. (King's is white, Pathmark is black, Fresh Fields is for anyone with a full wallet.)
Not even the HUD researchers could calculate whether living together leads to social integration. But as community life atrophies everywhere, true relational integration seems ever more difficult to imagine.
"There's an impoverishment in relatedness in America," says Mindy Thompson Fullilove, a public health research psychiatrist at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. Where we once raised barns to build commonality, we now pay property taxes. Normal patterns of socializing have eroded because people no longer live, work and socialize in the same place. Overlay race, and the challenge of integration is heightened.
"I find communities like Montclair hopeful," says the sociologist Douglas Massey. "But the sorts of forces that produce segregation in American society don't happen at the community level. Basically, places like Montclair are forced to adapt to a racially segregated world and undertake heroic efforts, often, to keep themselves these islands of integration in the broader sea of segregation."
Renaissance's principal, Anand, says, "School is the one place where you can really break down the patterns of sameness that exist within our communities." But perhaps because it is one of the town's few arenas for change, progress continues to come slowly.
"It's not our fault if we don't like people," says Susana Polo, who is half Irish and half Puerto Rican. "We want to sit with our friends. I'm not saying this racistly, but black people are brought up different, because of persecutions and slavery and stuff -- they're brought up to feel different things than white kids, which makes their personalities different. I don't get along with the black kids in my school. I get along with my friends, who are mostly white, and Michelle, who's black. And it's just like that."
A seating chart Anand implemented to break up the cafeteria's race- and class-based groupings stood little chance against the undertow of elaborate and steadfast allegiances -- kids who live in Upper Montclair as opposed to those who live in Frog Hollow, who listen to rap as opposed to Hanson, who come home at night to play basketball as opposed to Battle Squad. After less than a month, Kendra Urdang observes, "everyone was just sitting back where they wanted to."
Still, montclair offers reason for optimism. One of Daryl Shelton's classmates, a white boy named Ian Bandes, tells me the most important thing he learned in Fine and Anand's oral history class was about the relationship between time and social progress. "I learned that very recently, maybe 20 years ago, the town was very racist. And it's kind of scary, but it also taught us that we've come so far in that short time."
Renaissance, one suspects, deserves only partial credit for Ian's enlightened attitude. After all, many schools, even in the most segregated neighborhoods, teach racial tolerance. If Montclair's white students are more open to racial diversity than other kids, it's probably because their families are, too; that's why they chose this town in the first place.
Absolute integration may still be unrealized in Montclair, says Joan Pransky, the white mother of a 12th grader at the high school, but that's no reason to despair. "I don't think it happens in your lifetime," she says. "The long and short of it is the contribution you make along the way and the fervor you bring to it. The fact that a lot of things around here are wrong doesn't mean for a minute you change doing your best to do right."
The town is still very much a work in progress. True integration, Mayor Farlie observes, demands an acceptance that no town will ever be perfect and that people will always disagree. "One of the challenges of suburban and urban life these days in America," he says, "is you either believe in diversity and are prepared to sometimes be disappointed and other times be elated, or you move to suburban Connecticut."
A week after Daryl tells his story in class, I ask him to talk about the episode at the toy store. "I was distressed that they were singling me out because of my race," he says as we sit on the stairwell outside the cafeteria. "It's never happened before. I thought Montclair was perfect." Now, partly because of the class project, he says: "I'm starting to notice that other people are looking at me more often. I don't think it's very fair."
On his own, Daryl has come up with a plan for returning to the store, a combined appeal to human decency and market forces. "I was thinking I should just go over there and talk to them about it and tell them how it makes people feel," he explains. "And tell them how many kids actually don't want to come to their store." He is thinking about the profits, he says, because the store should want to attract as many customers as possible. 
His resolve fulfills Fine's goals for the class. "Young people need to know that they can produce history," she says, "and hopefully, that's the legacy of this town. It's not just about raising kids to be good citizens or good boys and girls, it's actually a town committed to raising young people who know how to live in a multiracial, multiethnic community."
Daryl's tale of hometown discrimination makes a case for Montclair's failure -- that even in such small moments of interaction, the community can't break free of segregationist, prejudiced patterns. But a stronger case can be made that, here, the stage for real progress is continually being set. With Daryl's plan, the town takes one more small but meaningful step toward the beloved community.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Diversity under construction: Kyle O'Donnell, right, and Daryl Shelton, second from right, at the Renaissance School.; Charged with ending "bright flight" Bernadette Anand, principal of the Renaissance School. (Justine Parsons)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTCLAIR (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HOUSING; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); HISTORY (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); TRENDS (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); SUBURBS (69%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (67%); TOYS & GAMES (63%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%); 

PERSON: FUNDERBURG, LISE DARYL SHELTON (82%); MICHELLE FINE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



134 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 11-07-99: Counter Culture;
The Assault on Good News

BYLINE: By Andrew Sullivan 

 BODY:
I was gamely sitting through the second bone-crunching, blood-gushing hour of "Fight Club" the other night when I found myself involuntarily wondering how much damage the movie was doing to society. For most Beltway types, this is a sadly automatic spasm. A similar thought tends to flit through my mind when watching a late night rerun of Jerry Springer, or the latex melodrama of cable wrestling. After Tipper Gore and Bill Bennett, watching mindless violence just isn't any fun anymore.
In fact, if I hadn't already read that very week that violent crime had just plummeted to yet another record low, I might even have sustained my unease. But then I had one of those extremely rare "Hey, wait a minute" epiphanies and wondered whether I hadn't gotten it exactly the wrong way around. 
 Given the free-falling murder and assault rates, could the popularity of cable wrestling and Jerry Springer and blood-splattered movies actually be helping to reduce crime? I wondered, for one truly liberating moment, if you took a 1990's chart of Jerry Springer's ratings and turned it upside down, wouldn't it look exactly the same as a chart of the murder rate in New York City?
It's a thought at least. The fact that you probably think I'm joking suggests how immune we still are to the good news that keeps bombarding us every day. The idea that movie violence helps reduce crime is no less plausible on reflection than the idea that movie violence actually causes it. Maybe venting violence in the culture helps reduce it in reality. It would certainly jibe more with what we actually know about the data. Yet we resist this idea as tenaciously as we resist any number of other reasons to be cheerful at the end of the millennium. To wit: the pregnancy rate for girls between the ages of 15 and 17 hits a 40-year low, and yet we still fret frantically about youngsters accessing porn on the Web. Welfare rolls collapse and unemployment rates hug the bottom of the y-axis, yet Bill Bradley can still avow that "the very meaning of America . . . is again under assault. . . . To allow this kind of poverty to exist in America is simply . . . unconscionable." Former drug users and binge drinkers turn into agreeable Republican Presidential candidates, yet the war on drugs and alcohol only intensifies. Surpluses mount and the national debt declines, and yet the notion of an incompetent, gridlocked government is still embedded in the national consciousness.
Pessimism, it seems, is a hard habit to break. Since the early 1970's, bad news -- especially in social indicators -- became so common that the question was simply whom or what to blame. In the last decade, the news has changed, but the question has remained doggedly the same. David Whitman, in his book, "The Optimism Gap," asked why Americans, despite seeing good times ahead for themselves, still tell pollsters they think others are doomed.
But the resilience of pessimism is not just in economics. To take an almost comic example, Bill Bennett just brought out a new edition of his former classic, "Index of Leading Cultural Indicators," as if the premise of the first edition, that America was speeding toward Gomorrah, still held. But almost every trend Bennett panicked about in his first edition -- from teen pregnancy to lax law enforcement -- has gotten better, not worse, in the interim. To his credit, even Bennett has beaten at least a partial retreat. "These are times in which conservatives are going to have to face the fact that there is some good news on the landscape," he told a crushed conservative audience two years ago. "We're going to have to live with it." Bummer.
Nevertheless, bearers of good news can still expect to be punished. Earlier this year, two scholars, John Donohue III and Steven Levitt, from Stanford University Law School and the University of Chicago, wrote a paper positing that falling crime rates in the 1990's might be linked to the widespread legalization of abortion in the 1970's. Their thesis, buttressed by solid statistical models, argued that since poor, underprivileged women had fewer babies from the mid-1970's onward, and since unwanted, poor kids are disproportionately likely to become criminals in their late teens, the soaring abortion rates of the 1970's and 1980's might have had a silver lining. The academics even showed how those states that legalized abortion first in the early 1970's saw their crime rates also drop first in the 1990's. The study wasn't a slam-dunk, but it was a legitimate idea worth discussing. Instead, both anti-abortion and abortion rights activists savaged the report. The anti-abortion crowd wanted nothing to offset the bleakness of abortion on demand. Abortion rights advocates saw thinly veiled racism amid the scholars' good cheer. Donohue and Levitt had to run a gamut of abuse on the way to publication.
The identical thing happened to a recent study showing far lower rates of suicide among Vietnam veterans than previously imagined. The author, Michael Kelley, a Purple Heart Vietnam vet, couldn't get his work published in veterans' publications, even though he showed that suicide numbers should be reduced from a widely quoted figure of 150,000 to under 5,000. An equally sour reception greeted a study published by the American Psychological Association. Assessing data on effects of child-molestation, the paper found that lasting psychological trauma among adult survivors of abuse, particularly for men, was much less than feared. The results from 36 peer-reviewed studies and 23 dissertations showed that victims of child abuse seemed on average only slightly less well adjusted by the time they got to college than their peers. A reason for relief? Of course not. Outraged members of the religious right accused the A.P.A. of tolerating pedophilia and launched a crusade to punish the organization. The authors stressed that their findings "do not imply that moral or legal definitions of or views on the behaviors currently classified as child sexual abuse should be abandoned or even altered," but the House of Representatives voted 355-0 to condemn the article anyway. That'll teach them to look on the bright side.
It's not hard to see why optimism gets such a bad rap. It doesn't fit into our ideological framework. The right won't believe that without reviving religion, censoring Hollywood, stigmatizing homosexuals and restricting divorce, people can actually behave more morally or responsibly. The left won't believe that without hefty government programs and a paleoliberal in the White House, the lives of most Americans can get better. The good news of the last decade has proved both sides wrong.
The era of smaller government, welfare reform, free trade and balanced budgets has seen declining poverty, record employment and lower crime. The era of Jerry Springer, "South Park," gay marriage and "Fight Club" has seen less divorce, abortion and crime and fewer teenage pregnancies. Something is amiss, and it has nothing to do with our vibrant society, and everything to do with our moribund politics. Which is one reason voting rates keep falling and cable wrestling's ratings keep rising, a sad fact that, come to think of it, is oddly cheering.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ward Sutton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ILLEGITIMACY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; WELFARE (US); CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; VIETNAM WAR; VETERANS MEDIA VIOLENCE (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (75%); MURDER (75%); CRIME RATES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); CHILD ABUSE (73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); TRENDS (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%); CHILDREN (66%); PUBLIC DEBT (65%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (64%); VETERANS (60%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); DRUG POLICY (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, ANDREW TIPPER GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



135 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 51; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
Beneath the Lawns, Seeds of Discontent

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP

 BODY:
SOME shows stick in the mind. For example, "World War II and the American Dream," an exhibition presented in 1994 at the National Building Museum in Washington, strongly influenced my view of suburban development. The show documented in detail how wartime industry was retooled to create the economic infrastructure of the post-war consumer society. Talk about the ghost in the machine! Beneath the malls, the lawns, the garages lay this subterranean realm of bombers, explosives and tanks. I thought about the show earlier this year on reading news reports of violence at high schools in suburban Littleton, Colo., and Conyers, Ga. Could it be that this militaristic past had come back to haunt the American dreamland superimposed atop it?
I thought of the Washington show again on a visit to "Charles and Ray Eames: A Legacy of Invention," now on view at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York. Not coincidentally, both exhibitions were organized by the same curator, Donald Albrecht, now on the Cooper-Hewitt staff. 
 The two shows tell much the same story but from radically different perspectives, and the fact that both stem from the same curatorial intelligence adds immeasurably to their depth. Together, they offer a disturbing parallax view of suburbia's present discontents. And they provide a background for understanding what was sacrificed by the suburban exodus of the postwar decades.
The Eames show documents the work of the most influential designers of that period. Including their chairs and tables, magazine layouts, and corporate exhibitions, the show centers on the couple's own house, a 1949 glass pavilion in Pacific Palisades, Calif. The house, manufactured from ready-made industrial components, was an idealized vision of what American life could be like in peacetime -- affordable, bucolic, efficient in the manner of Frank Lloyd Wright's Usonian houses, a place of Japanese serenity spiced with modern technology, the appliances of everyday life.
As the show demonstrates, the Eameses were not really designers of postwar America's physical landscape. They were orchestrators of a myth about that period's potential. In the catalog, Peter Smithson compares the two to art directors, their work to layout, display, cut-and paste. (The installation by Craig Hodgetts and Ming Fung mirrors this sensibility.)
In the cold war, the Eameses were enlisted as propagandists for the West. In 1959, the two created a multiscreen slide show, "Glimpses of America," that was shown in the pavilion built by the United States at the Moscow Trade Fair. Like the nearby model kitchen, site of the famous debate between Richard Nixon and Nikita S. Khrushchev, the Eames's presentation showcased the superior standard of living enjoyed by American workers. In the Cooper-Hewitt show, there is a photograph of Charles Eames's head inside a model of the pavilion, a dome designed by Buckminster Fuller. Eames could be a manifestation of the Wizard of Oz, or a Western equivalent of Big Brother, spouting slogans to extol the joys of free enterprise.
In the World War II show, a pair of photographs documents a camouflage village created to hide an aircraft factory in Santa Monica, Calif. The first picture shows the village as it might have looked to an enemy aircraft with a telephoto lens. A bathing beauty sits by the side of the road, casually trimming a shrub. Behind her are shrubs, hedges, trees. But this bucolic image turns out to be an illusion sewn on camouflage netting, as we see in the second picture, taken from a street in the factory complex below. In the context of Mr. Albrecht's show, this diptych could be taken as a metaphor for American life in the cold war years and beyond: the alluring image of suburbia as a cover for the machinery of consumer production. The difference this time is that the camouflage was designed to deceive Americans themselves.
One object appeared in both shows and is a splendid symbol of the links between them: a leg splint of molded plywood, designed by Charles Eames for the Air Force in 1942, and initially modeled on a leg of his. It was the first of the molded-plywood experiments that eventually produced the famous chairs manufactured by Herman Miller in the 1950's. Designed for wounded pilots, the splint might have come in handy as American families strode into the postwar consumer society.
For whose legs could have held out in the ruthless race to acquire gracious living? The house! The car! Huff and puff . . . The major appliances! The hobbies! Quick, the splints! Some for Buzz and Princess, too! The color TV! The lawn mower! The second car! The second house! CRACK-K-K-K! More splints! More splints! Aspirin, Miltown, Prozac, Ritalin . . . The past half-century is suddenly revealed to be a Depression-era dance marathon, held in a make-believe ballroom that stretches from coast to coast. Wartime production lifts the United States out of the Depression, suburban life keeps the wheels turning, but there is still a need to dance on and on, faster and faster, or else we might fall through the camouflage netting, disappear entirely from view, be swallowed up by the subterranean realm where chimneys belch and garbage piles up in bigger and bigger heaps.
Louis Sullivan wrote, "Once you learn to look upon architecture not as an art, more or less well or more or less badly done, but as a social manifestation, the critical eye becomes clairvoyant, and obscure, unnoted phenomena are illumined." Since the killings in Columbine, people have been speculating on possible connections between violence in suburban high schools and the planning, or lack of it, of suburban communities. The dispersal of houses, the social isolation that results from it, have been held partly accountable for crimes and panic once associated with the inner city.
This diagnosis is much sounder than the one that blames the entertainment industry for glamorizing violence. But how closely can we really afford to peer into the heart of this social manifestation? A lot is riding on our willingness to keep it going. Housing starts. Fuel, asphalt and car production. If any of this were to go, we would end up with a home-front version of the cold war domino effect. Malls, theme parks, edge cities, office campuses, multiplexes, highway cloverleafs would topple in quick succession. More than half the population would tumble through the camouflage net of prosperity into bread lines, soup kitchens and other scenes straight out of the 1930's. Millions of desiccated lawns would produce the Dust Bowl all over again. It's much easier to point a finger at gangsta rap.
Should we be optimistic that a solution will be found in the compact communities envisioned by the so-called New Urbanists? Appealing to what are essentially nonurban ideas of harmony and conflict avoidance, they are as likely to increase social isolation as to overcome it. The period styles of New Urbanist communities like Seaside and Windsor in Florida, the re-creation of a small-town America that in truth never existed, are a denser and more expensive form of camouflage draped over the machinery of consumer manipulation.
It is worth recalling a project designed by John Hejduk. Inspired by the Stanley Kubrick film "The Shining," Mr. Hejduk's "New England Masque" depicts a Palladian-style country house inhabited by a couple who never meet. The house is completely symmetrical, its two halves joined by the living room. The easy chairs facing one another resemble suits of armor with masks and gauntlets that seal off faces and hands.
Mr. Hejduk's project carries an implicit criticism of suburban values. Like "The Shining," it suggests that the impulse to flee the city stems from a psychological disorder that can have disastrous consequences. People can dwell beneath the same roof and remain permanently estranged. Lessening the distance between the roofs isn't likely to cure an illness of the inner life.
To extend the idea further: the postwar separation from the city was inherently violent. The rejection of spontaneous social contact, of the unplanned, the unscripted, of conflict and diversity, of history, of life itself, was a traumatic uprooting that no mythology could wish away.
Some commentators have adopted the view of psychologists and social workers that what is most lacking in suburban life is the means to satisfy the human need for attention: getting it, giving it, competing for it, losing it. Some people may well feel closer to sitcom or talk-show versions of community than to the folks they're watching TV with. It should not be surprising to find such people acting out a rage that could be allayed by walking down a city street.
Here's Johnny!
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Charles Eames in a model of the dome for the 1959 exhibition in Moscow. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 54); A camouflage village above a wartime Douglas Aircraft plant in Santa Monica, Calif., about 1943, as intended to be seen by enemy aircraft; right, the factory beneath a camouflage netting. (Douglas Aircraft Company/McDonnell Douglas Corporation)(pg. 51)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (84%); NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (84%); COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (56%); COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (84%); NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (84%); COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (56%); COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WORLD WAR II (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); TRADE SHOWS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (55%); 

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



136 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 51; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
Landscapes by the Carload: Art or Kitsch?

BYLINE: By TESSA DECARLO; Tessa DeCarlo's most recent article for Arts & Leisure was about the folk artist Nellie Mae Rowe.

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif.

 BODY:
THOMAS KINKADE's 100,000-square-foot headquarters here is hardly a typical artist's atelier. But then Mr. Kinkade, arguably the most commercially successful painter of the 1990's, is hardly a typical artist.
In a large room lined with industrial sinks, dozens of workers in aprons and galoshes dunk reproductions of Mr. Kinkade's latest painting in water, peel off the paper backing and glue the flower-and-sunbeam-spangled landscape to stretched canvas. Down the hall, another room is filled with workers sitting before long rows of the canvas-backed reproductions, amplifying the picture's luminescent light effects by adding dots and squiggles of paint. 
 In a smaller studio nearby, three "master highlighters" trained personally by Mr. Kinkade do the same thing with more finesse and a wider range of colors. And in the vast warehouse out back, hundreds more people mat, frame, pack and ship the finished pictures to the 248 Thomas Kinkade galleries in malls and tourist Meccas all over the United States, where they'll be sold to eager collectors for anywhere from $600 to $10,000 and up.
Welcome to the future according to Mr. Kinkade. Welcome to a crusade to redeem the soul of American art.
"I represent the forefront of an entirely new trend, a populist movement that takes images people understand and creates an iconography for our era," says Mr. Kincade, an ebullient, burly, mustached fellow in jeans who looks more like a construction worker than a multimillionaire artist. "We are creating an avalanche of imagery that is impacting the world."
For most high-art aficionados, Mr. Kinkade's light-dappled renderings of frothing oceans, fantastical cottages and feverishly colorful gardens, bearing titles like "The Blessings of Spring" and "Hometown Evening," may be impossible to see as anything but slickly commercial kitsch. But in view of Mr. Kinkade's popularity -- his official Web site calls him America's most collected living artist -- we might pause before dismissing his paintings out of hand.
After all, these days the line between kitsch and serious art is blurring, thanks to the art world's reflexive disdain for boundaries and its insatiable appetite for new ways to shock. It's a trend epitomized by the apotheosis of Norman Rockwell from kitsch illustrator to member of the high-art canon, as signaled by the big Rockwell retrospective that opened yesterday at the High Museum in Atlanta and will arrive at the Guggenheim in New York in 2001. With sweetness, sincerity and bad taste seemingly in the ascendant, is a Kinkade show at the Guggenheim next?
Well, no. As yet Mr. Kinkade has no champions in the high-art world, not even among those who endorse other popular antimodernists. For example, Robert Rosenblum, as curator of the Guggenheim's Rockwell show, shrugs off the outrage of art-world colleagues. "They're old fogeys and they think it's substandard art," he says. "I think of it as a cutting-edge experiment." But even Mr. Rosenblum draws the line at Thomas Kinkade.
"Rockwells are interesting to look at because they're cultural documents and because their narrative and visual construction is so fascinating," he says. Mr. Kinkade's work, by contrast, strikes him as vapid and repetitive. "He doesn't look like an artist who's worth considering, except in terms of supply and demand. Of course a lot of people would have probably said the same thing about Rockwell 20 or 30 years ago," Mr. Rosenblum adds. "But I think Rockwell is different."
Naturally, Mr. Kinkade disagrees. "There have been three icon-makers in our century," he says. Two, Maxfield Parrish and Norman Rockwell, were embraced by the masses but disdained by critics until decades later. The third is Mr. Kinkade himself. "Because my art is populist," he predicts, "it is likely to be shunned until a curator or two steps to the front and says: 'We have to look at this. This is art that is embraced wildly by our culture.' " In the meantime, he adds, "The critics may not endorse me, but I own the hearts of the people."
Mr. Kinkade, 41, is a devout Christian whose life appears to be as rich in sentiment as his pictures. He is married to his childhood sweetheart, Nanette, and has four young daughters, Merritt, Chandler, Winsor and Everett, all of whom share the middle name Christian. He grew up in the California mountain town of Placerville, dropped out of both the University of California at Berkeley and the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, bummed around the country and painted backgrounds for the animated film "Fire and Ice" before becoming a gallery artist. From the beginning his goals were very different from those of the high-art world.
For one thing, he wanted a large popular audience. For another, he believed art's purpose is to provide inspiration and reassurance, not -- per modernist orthodoxy -- to question assumptions or challenge the status quo. "My paintings provide hope to people in despair, provide a reminder of the beauty of God's creation despite the darkness surrounding our lives," Mr. Kinkade explains. He calls painting his ministry and says he has received hundreds of letters from grateful fans telling how his pictures have lifted their spirits, reunited their families, even saved them from suicide.
To high-art types Mr. Kinkade's sentimental belief in uplift is a key reason his work is so unappealing. "It's about reaffirming images that are comfortable, which isn't very interesting," says Gary Garrels, the chief curator at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. "There's just very little to discuss there."
To Mr. Kinkade such attitudes reveal the emotional poverty of the art elite. "High culture is paranoid about sentiment," he says. "But human beings are intensely sentimental. And if art does not speak a language that's accessible to people, it relegates itself to obscurity."
Certainly he believes in making art accessible, in every sense. Many popular artists sell limited-edition reproductions rather than original paintings, but Mr. Kinkade has taken this strategy to previously unimagined extremes. His multitiered system includes basic paper prints costing a few hundred dollars, "canvas lithographs" in "standard numbered" editions of 4,000 or more that sell in the low four figures, pricier "Renaissance editions" enhanced by "master highlighters" and a half-dozen other variations. At the top are "semi-originals" highlighted by Mr. Kinkade himself that can cost $34,000 or more.
In addition to having more dedicated galleries than any other artist, all furnished with dark-green carpeted walls and rheostat lights to enhance his pictures' crowd-pleasing light effects, Mr. Kinkade is also the only painter on the New York Stock Exchange. Media Arts Group Inc., the publicly traded company that distributes his work, posted $126 million in revenues and $84 million in profits for fiscal 1999, reflecting not only sales of Mr. Kinkade's pictures but licensing agreements for Kinkade cards, puzzles, mugs, blankets, books and even La-Z-Boy furniture. According to the Media Arts spokeswoman, Brenda Balingit, "We believe it's the first time a life style brand has been built around an artist rather than a clothing designer."
Reassuring pictures remain the heart of the Kinkade empire, however. "In this hectic rat race, it's nice to look at something calm and peaceful," said Laurie Weber of Vacaville, Calif., explaining why she and her husband, Frank, had just purchased their second Kinkade, "Victorian Garden II." The Webers were among several customers lined up at the Thomas Kinkade Gallery in nearby Calistoga on a recent weekend to have their newly acquired canvases enhanced by a visiting "master highlighter," who relayed tidbits of Mr. Kinkade's biography as she touched up each picture with dabs of premixed color. "This personalizes it," Mr. Weber said afterward. "So even if your next-door neighbor has the same picture, each one is different."
In a gallery down the street, Paul Youngman, an artist, sat near several of his original landscape oils and shook his head in disgust. "I don't think of that place as an art gallery," he said. "It's a card shop, but the cards are really big and have frames around them."
Mr. Kinkade's brother, Patrick, a sociology professor who also runs a Kinkade gallery in Forth Worth, Tex., counters: "Galleries disparage my brother because they're protecting the market in originals. There's the critical art culture and the Everyman culture, and my brother is attacking the foundations of the critical culture's economy."
Indeed, the Kinkade organization's marketing tactics could be seen as a hilariously effective critique of the traditional art world's market-driven deification of the art object. As The San Francisco Chronicle art critic Kenneth Baker put it during a visit to the Thomas Kinkade Gallery in that city, "If there's such a thing as naive postmodernism, this is it."
While Mr. Baker was pleasantly surprised by Mr. Kinkade's skillful rendering of skies and mosses, particularly in some of his earlier works, he found much of the imagery "clumsy" and "cheesy."
What Mr. Baker found most disturbing about the pictures, and the greatest bar to their ever being taken seriously, was the artist's relentlessly comforting message. "Do we want what we call 'art' to serve this social function of quelling our anxiety in an almost pharmaceutical fashion?" he asked.
Mr. Kinkade nevertheless remains convinced that art mandarins like Mr. Baker will someday recognize his work's value. "There is room for an experimental, intellectual bent in the arts, but there is also room for a populist mainstream vision," he says. "This is a new type of art, the art of everyone, and I'm on the cutting edge."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Evening Glow," by Thomas Kinkade, who thinks art should inspire and reassure. (Lightpost Publishing)(pg. 54); Thomas Kinkade with some of his paintings at his gallery at the Valley Fair Mall in Santa Clara, Calif. At right is "The Garden of Prayer" (1997). (Jenny Thomas for The New York Times)(pg. 51)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (75%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (75%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); TRENDS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (78%); 

PERSON: THOMAS KINKADE (96%); NORMAN ROCKWELL (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



137 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 23; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1883 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Tough Love for a Tough Girl

BYLINE: By KAREN DURBIN; Karen Durbin is the film critic for Mirabella magazine.

 BODY:
"ROSETTA," the artful, gritty Belgian film that won top prize at Cannes this year, opens with a harrowing scene of a young woman being chased like a rabbit. The hounds are security guards at the factory where she has just been told, without explanation, that she's not getting a job she has been trying out for. Instead of going quietly, she abruptly takes off -- deep into the factory. The guards finally run her to ground in a changing room, where she has locked herself in, hunched down and gasping, clutching herself as if to keep anyone from taking the white smock and shower cap that are her work uniform.
"I'm a good worker," she cries through the door. "Everybody says so."
Outrage and raw desperation are palpable in her voice. And yet a terrible comedy bubbles through the scene. Whoever heard of someone reacting that way to not getting a job? And who hasn't secretly wanted to? 
 Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne, brothers who dazzled critics everywhere with "La Promesse" three years ago, have come back with an even better film and a tougher one. "Rosetta," which opened on Friday, had its American premiere last month at the New York Film Festival. Discussing the movie with the audience afterward, Luc Dardenne used battle language to describe its heroine, played by Emilie Dequenne, a newcomer.
"She's at war with the world that won't let her in," he said. "To her, it's a fortress she's trying to storm. But she becomes a fortress in the process, and it nearly kills her."
Asked if they liked Rosetta, the Dardennes looked amazed. "We love her," Jean-Pierre said. "We couldn't make a film about her if we didn't. We can only hope the audience loves her, too, because if you don't, she cannot live."
The Dardennes don't make it easy. Although the film has been hailed by some critics for its brilliance and originality, it has repelled others with its blunt lack of charm.
The Canadian director David Cronenberg, who headed the jury at the Cannes International Film Festival, called the Dardennes' movie "a fantastic portrayal of a primal life force -- so unsentimental, so uncompromising and yet in the end so moving.
"The film has such a physical, tactile understanding of this girl's life. It's beyond desperation, her determination to live and to survive. Making the character sympathetic is a rule of thumb of all popular filmmaking. And they didn't do that. She does shocking things in the movie. Yet by the end you love her; you're so with her by then."
While they were in New York, the Dardennes discussed their work over coffee in their suite at the Rihga Royal Hotel, with their co-producer, Michele Halberstadt Petin, serving as translator. Luc Dardenne said that they wanted to make a movie with a female protagonist, but that the story took off when they hit on the concept of a lonely, ostracized girl whose lifeline is the belief that work will provide what she crucially lacks, a rightful place in the civilized order of things.
Rosetta is an unwilling outsider. She lives in a rundown trailer camp with her mother (Anne Yernaux), a quiet, solipsistic oblivion drinker who trades sex for booze and vigorously repels her daughter's efforts to save her. (There's black humor in this, too. When Rosetta presses her to go into a drying-out clinic, saying, "It's the only way out of it," her mother, suddenly looking like a large, obstinate baby, says, "I don't want out of it.")
Rosetta seems almost savage in her utter disregard for the most minimal niceties of human discourse. No s'il vous plaits or mercis lubricate her speech, and she fights to hang on to any job that comes her way -- literally fights, and literally hangs on.
Both "Rosetta" and "La Promesse" explore the lives of people who are twice marginalized, by poverty and lawlessness on one hand and by their own youth on the other, and who fight that marginalization.
Igor, the 15-year-old protagonist of "La Promesse" -- played by another neophyte, Jeremie Renier -- is industrious, too, working as a mechanic's apprentice and putting in long hours helping his adored and adoring father, a sometimes ruthless trafficker in illegal immigrant labor.
But the movie introduces Igor as he filches the wallet of a woman who has just cashed her pension check, then coolly lies when she discovers it missing. As he speaks, we see that his teeth are rotting, a sight that is at once pathetic, informative and repulsive.
The Dardennes are scrupulous in refusing to court our sympathy in their films. "La Promesse" and "Rosetta" feel unblinkingly tough, even antiromantic. There is no soundtrack music to cue up our feelings, just the noises of everyday life, including, in Rosetta's case, the small grunts and gasps that accompany her ceaseless industry. In Ms. Dequenne's intensely focused performance (which won the best-actress award at Cannes), Rosetta bristles with anxiety and determination, barreling her way through the world at a clumsy, headlong tilt. The Dardennes practically climb on top of her with a mostly hand-held camera. "We wanted the audience to have the same obsessions she does," Luc said.
"La Promesse" and "Rosetta" are convincing when their protagonists choose, reluctantly and by agonizing degrees, to do the right thing. The Dardennes' brand of dirty realism is anchored in a deeply felt, and deeply moral, belief not just in the potential decency of people, but in the desire of most people to be decent. Their unsparing, economical films have an optimism that feels earned.
Ms. Dequenne said at the New York Film Festival that, as co-directors, the brothers were like "the same person with four eyes." Indeed, interviewing them was a little like talking to the same smart, friendly man with two mouths. The Dardennes answered questions generously, weaving in and out of each other's responses with the sort of scene-setting and lively detail that they bring to one of their scripts. International recognition has come in the middle of their lives -- Luc is 45, Jean-Pierre 48 -- and well along in a 60-film career as documentary filmmakers. They made two previous fiction films that were released only in Belgium. It wasn't until "La Promesse," Luc said, "that we decided, 'Now we're going to do exactly what we want to do, the way we want to do it.' "
The result is an approach to feature filmmaking inflected and enriched by their documentary experience. Although "La Promesse" and "Rosetta" are stylistically distinct -- the earlier film is quieter and more conventionally shot -- they both have a factual quality, as if the Dardennes were recording rather than creating their unfolding narratives.
"What we learned from documentaries is that reality resists you," Jean-Pierre said, "and so we try to recreate that resistance. We consider our characters not as creatures born from our head, but as people we meet. What comes to light are the things you're interested in from them, but the rest remains in shadow. So there are a lot of things you don't know about Igor's life, about his mother, for example, or about Rosetta or her father."
This refusal to explain everything we see gives the Dardennes' movies some of the confounding and suggestive untidiness of life. Igor's father Roger is tough and amoral; he's willing to let an injured worker die rather than risk drawing the attention of the immigration authorities. But he's not a wholly bad man. He works hard, is quick to repair the housing he overcharges his illegal tenants for, and loves his son with an intensity that is touching. At the same time, he unwittingly teaches Igor the one lesson that may liberate the boy -- that to be amoral is to court chaos and savagery.
The documentary impulse that informs these films adds as well as subtracts, creating character and incident from a steady accumulation of eloquent, often mordantly witty details. These yield the Dardennes' signature -- moments at once so strange and so right that they resemble nothing else under the sun. In "La Promesse," Igor's growing sexual self-consciousness is marked by an unforgettable gesture, when he suddenly reaches for the bottle of white correction fluid he's using to do his father's paperwork and tries to paint over the cavities in his front teeth. And in "Rosetta," perhaps the most brilliant bit of gallows humor in a movie studded with it occurs when Rosetta staggers across the trailer park lawn, trying to roll a heavy gas cylinder back to their caravan so she can commit suicide and kill her mother in the bargain. Nothing comes easily for this girl, not even the end.
The Dardennes set their movies among the invisible of society, not so much the down and out like Rosetta's mother as those scrambling for purchase on the lowest rungs of the economy. Igor and his father live in the same building that houses their illegal tenants; the object of all their hustling is to fulfill a dream of owning a decent house of their own. And watching these films, one is constantly aware of the ineluctable dictates under which these characters play out their personal dramas. Rosetta conducts her indefatigable job search against an ominous backdrop of empty storefronts and soaped-over windows.
Those storefronts are real. So is the rundown trailer camp the Dardennes wryly call Grand Canyon (the owner proudly adopted the name after the movie came out). "Rosetta" and "La Promesse" are set in Seraing, the town near Liege where the brothers grew up. Once a stronghold of coal and steel production, the area is economically depressed, coping with 20 percent unemployment and a great influx of immigrants from Russia, Turkey, Greece and Spain.
The Dardennes' understanding of the importance of work, the way it anchors a life and a sense of worth, is rooted in personal observation as well. They talked about the pride their uneducated father took in his rise from a low-level factory job to the head of the factory's industrial design department. They also saw what a blow it was 20 years ago, when he was abruptly fired at the age of 52 in a company restructuring. With an industriousness worthy of Rosetta and Igor, he quickly rebounded, forming a government-financed association that runs a shelter for battered women and a food bank for the hungry. Still, the brothers said, when he goes off to work in the morning he still asks his wife, "Make my factory sandwiches, please."
The subjects of the three Dardenne documentaries that I've seen are frankly political -- the general strike of 1960, an underground newspaper published by factory workers and a series of brief portraits of Polish immigrants in Belgium. Yet when I asked the brothers if they considered themselves political filmmakers, they seemed surprised by the question.
"We don't belong to any party," Luc explained. "We support causes we find meaningful, like the fight against racism or for the rights of people who don't have papers. It's what any citizen should do in a civil society. For example, I went to England to support the movement to try Pinochet."
One could wait a long time for a world of such citizens. In the meantime, the Dardennes make movies about people whose choices are shaped by an uncivil society. It's the oldest of stories. But political or not, the Dardennes are artists, and so they make it new.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luc Dardenne, left, and Jean-Pierre Dardenne at the Rihga Royal Hotel in Manhattan. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 33); Emilie Dequenne in the title role of "Rosetta," the winner of the top prize at Cannes. (Christine Plenus/October Films)(pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); FESTIVALS (70%); 

PERSON: LUC DARDENNE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



138 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
4 Finalists Vie for Coveted Site in Casino Country

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
IN 1991, when the Connecticut Department of Mental Health announced it would close Norwich Hospital, there were fears that the 70 mostly turn-of-the-century buildings on a 430-acre campus off Route 12 would sit idle for many years.
The economy was in a slump, the large defense companies that were the mainstay of the region were shutting down or shrinking, and prospects seemed bleak for development of the huge property straddling the Preston-Norwich border, with the bulk of it in Preston. 
 But when an advisory committee planning the re-use of Norwich Hospital opened bids this year, it found itself with one of the hottest properties in the state -- with 24 major developers from across the country responding with proposals for as much as $1 billion in mixed-use construction on the site. The committee, comprising state and local officials, has narrowed the field to four.
"The economy is a lot stronger than it was even five years ago, and in New England, you don't see many 400-acre parcels right off a major highway anymore," said Andrew M. Norton, the state's project manager for the site. "Whether it's an entertainment use or a corporate use, it allows a developer to think big."
Robert M. Congdon, a member of the advisory committee who is First Selectman of Preston, said he was encouraged by the level of interest. And while some would like to see the project move quickly, he said he was satisfied with negotiating with four of the top developers.
"I think it's good that we have several developers interested," he said. "It raises the level of expectation, and it forces the developers to spend more time, energy and money on their planning than if they were the only ones in the mix. This is a very big project, and has the potential to have a huge impact on all of southeastern Connecticut, so we want the best proposal possible."
David Hecht, director of marketing for one of the contenders, HRH Construction, a subsidiary of the Starrett Corporation, based in New York City, said the biggest difference from 1991 and now has been the development of the two Indian casinos in the region, the Mohegan casino across the Thames River from the hospital, and the Mashantucket Pequot casino about 10 minutes away on Route 2.
Mr. Hecht called the hospital property "a huge piece of undeveloped real estate along the river in a prime location with almost unlimited growth potential." It has rail access and is at the end of a connector to the Connecticut Turnpike, and it has a dock on a navigable waterway and all utilities, he said.
His company has proposed a $170 million project that would include 1.6 million square feet of office space, a 600,000 square foot biotechnology center, a hotel and conference center and a retirement community.
"This is not something that's going to happen overnight, but the long term support is there for any development that's going to take place," Mr. Hecht said.
Alexius C. Conroy, president of the Conroy Development Corporation in Greenwich, another contender, said gaming was not the only force driving the region. He noted that Pfizer Inc., the pharmaceutical giant, is building a $270 million research complex in nearby New London that will create 2,000 jobs. And after years of downsizing, he said, the military industries are stabilizing, which takes much of the uncertainty out of the area's prospects.
"All of that has created some potential interest in office development in the region," Mr. Conroy said. "This would be a good site for a mixed-use development that would begin to meet some of that demand."
Norwich and Preston, both represented on the advisory committee, have expressed some competing interests. Norwich seems more interested in a resort complex, Preston in office construction. Preston backs a proposal by Three Rivers Community College to relocate to the campus from Norwich, while Norwich wants to keep the school in its downtown. "Even though most of the land is not in Norwich, it will certainly have a large impact on our downtown, so we don't want to see another downtown developed there," said Richard J. Abele, the Norwich City Council president, who serves on the committee. "We think it should have a mix, perhaps some biotechnology space and some offices, but definitely some tourism-related business. We'd like to see more high-paying jobs in the mix."
THE Southeastern Connecticut Council of Governments, a regional planning agency, has not taken a position either way, said its executive director, James S. Butler.
"The region wants to see a land use there that will be welcomed by both communities," Mr. Butler said. "I think it's safe the ultimate use is still up in the air. I don't think anyone has said, 'This is what we want, and nothing else.' We're still talking about what would be the best use."
The state's Department of Economic and Community Development, which is represented on the committee to provide some planning expertise, is also waiting to see what the discussions with developers yield, said the agency's spokesman, James W. Watson III.
"The department is really not as concerned about the type of use, whether it's entertainment-related or whatever other use is on the table," Mr. Watson said. "We just want the final selection to create as many jobs as possible, and economic benefits to all residents of the region."
When the state decided to close Norwich Hospital, it encompassed almost 700 acres, and 70 buildings, about half of them small former houses or garages or storage buildings, Mr. Norton said. Thirty-six of them have 20,000 square feet of space or more, and four have 100,000 square feet or more, including the 250,000 square foot main hospital building right off Route 12.
Mr. Norton said the state had transferred 24 acres to Preston and 46 acres to Ledyard for open space. The state's Department of Environmental Protection will retain 88 acres for conservation and the Department of Transportation will hold on to 30 acres for easements. Small parcels have been sold since the hospital's closing, but more than 430 acres remain, with all the buildings.
"One advantage we have is that this property does not have any big environmental problems, except for two things -- lead paint and asbestos insulation in the buildings," Mr. Norton said. But, he said, even those problems might be overcome without too much trouble if the buildings are for the most part demolished, as he expects. He estimates that it would take more than $120 million to renovate the 1.4 million square feet of existing space, not including site improvements such as parking and improving the utility tunnels, which would boost the bill significantly.
"There are a lot of buildings that were vacant for an entire generation, even while the campus was active," he said. "And even the ones that were in use until recently are not up to modern standards. Most developers look at the site and say they can't imagine being able to use the buildings."
Five years ago, the state proposed selling the entire property on the open market, but an outcry from the towns led to the creation of the advisory committee to consider future uses of the property. Throughout this year, it has been screening proposals and meeting with developers.
The advisory committee has identified two developers as the front runners -- the Mohegan tribe from across the river and Spaulding & Slye of Boston.
The tribe has proposed a hotel, golf course, spa and other amenities on the property. The Mohegans already operate one of the more successful casinos in the country, and the tribe is in the midst of a $750 million expansion that will include a 100,000 square foot convention center, 300,000 square feet of retail space, and a 1,500 room hotel. Construction cranes and earth-moving equipment for those projects are visible from the Norwich Hospital grounds
Spaulding & Slye originally represented a Fortune 500 firm that was interested in developing a $1 billion office complex on the site. Although that client has backed out, the developer has assured the committee that it is still interested. It now proposes bringing up to three corporate clients to the site, and developing the entire project as offices.
Two other proposals, the ones from Starrett and Conroy, are still in the running, and they have been asked to quantify how much state aid they would need in the form of demolition or infrastructure improvements.
Mr. Norton said the development process, which has already taken five years, is making progress, but will take time.
"Even on the day we pick a developer, I've got to imagine that it will be five years plus before the project begins to open its doors, and it could be another five years or more before everything in the final plan is accomplished," Mr. Norton said. The developers have also said that a 10-year period would not be unreasonable, since it would allow the market to absorb the space that becomes available.
Whichever developer is chosen, Mr. Congdon said, it will have a huge impact on Preston. Estimates are it would add $350 million to $700 million to the town's tax base, which is only $200 million. But along with the tax revenue will come a sharp increase in the demand for municipal services, from fire and police services to room in the schools, so he doesn't mind being patient.
"If we don't plan for that, it could be devastating," Mr. Congdon said. "It's a great situation to be in, but you have to be very careful, work closely with the developer, and hire good technical help to make sure you adequately plan for the growth."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Central portion of 430-acre campus of the former Norwich Hospital.
(Roger Riley)
 
Map of Connecticut, highlighting Norwich.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STARRETT CORP (63%); NORWICH CITY COUNCIL (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORWICH CITY COUNCIL (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (66%); CASINOS (63%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (57%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID HECHT (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



139 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY;
On the Farm, Pick Your Own Metaphors

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER 

 BODY:
EVEN before I lived in New Jersey, William Carlos Williams was my favorite poet, and not just because we have the same birthday. I always admired Rutherford's man of letters because, among other things, he knew where to find a good metaphor. Consider his 16-word poem, "The Red Wheelbarrow": 

so much depends
upon
a red wheel
barrow
glazed with rain
water
beside the white
chickens.
Williams brilliantly used the wheelbarrow as a metaphor for -- well, for something; just what escapes me, although I knew it in college. The point is, Williams understood that all good metaphors come from the earth -- from the garden or farm. And that's why no poetry worth reading has been written in the 36 years since he died: we have practically no farms anymore.
Which is a long way of explaining why I spent a lovely late-October morning at one of the few farms we do still have, Lee's Turkey Farm in Hightstown, where the Lee family has been holding off suburbanization's creep for six generations. If I could immerse myself in an inspiring atmosphere, I reasoned, I could perhaps recapture Williams's spare, profound elegance.
Disrupting the literary mood somewhat was the fact that I was tagging along with a hay wagon full of third graders from Trenton, some of the thousands of children the Lees give a glimpse of farming each year. Also not helpful was that Ronny Lee, who runs the farm with his wife, Janet, has elevated the schoolkid farm tour to performance art -- distractingly entertaining.
Nonetheless, I had pen in hand as we set out in the hay wagon, which was pulled by a Kubota tractor driven by Mr. Lee.
 
 Bright orange tractor,
each tire bigger
than the VW I had at 19.
"People will tell you that turkeys are stupid, and I'll be the first to admit my birds aren't very smart," Mr. Lee says, flinging open a barn door to reveal 2,500 squawking turkeys of assorted sizes. "But it's not their fault." It's his fault, he says, because he's done everything for them their entire lives; in fact, they think he's their mother.
As a demonstration of turkey stupidity, he waits until a few birds start strolling out the open door. He takes two empty onion bags, red in color, and drops them in front of the beasts.
"The color red in the wrong place really makes them nervous," he explains. Though he has pulled this same trick on them several times a day for weeks, the idiot birds scurry back into the barn.
 
 Turkeys see terror in the red
of an onion bag.
Look at the calendar; who
can blame them?
"No turkey on my farm lives past 22 weeks," Mr. Lee tells the children bluntly. His is entirely a farmer-to-customer operation; no grocery freezer for these birds. The apples and vegetables, too: it's pick your own or buy at their farm stand.
The two operations, he tells me later, act like a seesaw. When the economy is good, the u-pick biz is down ("Everyone wants everything done for them") but the turkey biz is up because a fresh turkey is a sort of gourmet item. In bad times, it's the reverse.
The children get the full tour, and an education. In the orchard, Mr. Lee tells them that a new hormone spray keeps his Winesaps on the trees longer. In the cornfield, he draws gasps of disbelief when he explains that corn and the earth it sprouts from are the ultimate source of Cap'n Crunch.
 
garish cereal box.
inside, essentially, dirt.
The cornfield's "scarecrow" is another source of surprise: it's a metal box that blares a recording of birds in some kind of agony. "Think of it this way," he tells the children. "If you went into a restaurant and heard a recording of someone gagging, you'd go down the street, wouldn't you?"
The kids love this. And they love that they get to pick a pumpkin and take it home. And I love that I've spent this gorgeous morning with them. I just wish one of them hadn't scrawled this on my notepad:
 
"Gagging" the farmer said; I
thought of your poetry.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LEE TURKEY FARM

ORGANIZATION: LEE TURKEY FARM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; TURKEYS TURKEY PRODUCTION (90%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (90%); LITERATURE (77%); SUBURBS (52%); 

PERSON: GENZLINGER, NEIL; WILLIAMS, WILLIAM CARLOS RONNY LEE (92%); WILLIAM CARLOS WILLIAMS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



140 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property /The Market;
Office Space Is Scarce, and Getting More Expensive

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
WE are already seeing triple-digit rents at the upper end of the midtown market," said an ebullient Steven Swerdlow, the senior managing director of CB Richard Ellis's New York office, referring to the $100 a square foot annual rents reported for the buildings at 712 and 767 Fifth Avenue.
Mr. Swerdlow cautions that stratospheric rent levels are likely to be confined to a few trophy buildings on Fifth Avenue and 57th Street, but he said the figure expresses the tone of the office market in Manhattan: space is scarce and it is getting more expensive. 
 The strength of the market is such that some real estate executives say it may prompt something not seen in this decade, new construction without a government subsidy.
The situation is the result of a booming economy that has produced nearly 79,000 private sector jobs in the city over the last 12 months. Unlike past expansions that were largely fueled by the financial services industry, much of the current growth is the result of industries that did not exist in previous cycles, such as new media and other Internet-related activities.
The importance of these companies, and the telecommunications firms that are also multiplying, cannot be underestimated, said John Powers, an executive managing director of Insignia/ESG, the real estate services company. Through the end of September, he said, these companies accounted for 35 percent of the space leased this year in Midtown South and 12 percent of the space downtown.
William G. Cohen, an executive vice president of Newmark & Company Real Estate, said the new computer-based companies are transforming whole neighborhoods. Many are lumped together under the rubric of "dot com" after the last part of their Internet addresses.
"The dot com's are driving the Park Avenue South and Garment District markets," he said. "They are all out there looking for 10,000 square feet in move-in condition." Examples of these transactions include Media Matrix, which took 10,000 square feet at 250 Park Avenue South at 20th Street; Fortune City.com, which signed up for 22,600 square feet at 500 Seventh Avenue at 37th Street, and Screaming Media, which took 26,000 square feet in the Starrett-Lehigh Building at 601 West 26th Street.
These companies are largely selling the skills of their highly educated, generally younger employees, and they go to considerable effort to recruit and retain them. Many are attracted to the culture and nightlife of big cities, a bonus for New York. A recent national survey commissioned by Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services company, found that "computer services professionals chose New York more frequently than any other city when asked where they would most like to work."
Broader measures of leasing activity showed the strength of the market as well. "The Manhattan office market posted strong results in the third quarter and is now poised to end the decade with the lowest vacancy rates and highest asking rents since the early 1980's," according to the Cushman & Wakefield report.
And because there has been little new building in Manhattan in the last decade, the report noted that the upward part of the real estate cycle is likely to be extended.
The overall vacancy rate in Manhattan fell to 7.4 percent in the third quarter, the lowest rate in the decade, with space in Class A buildings even tighter at 5 percent, according to the report. The average asking rent increased to $39.44 a square foot annually from $32.89 at the comparable time in 1998.
Average asking rents in midtown broke the $40-a-foot barrier, increasing to $41.57, while those in Midtown South -- once not considered a prime office district -- are expected to top $30 a square foot before the end of the year. Average asking rents downtown are already over $30 a square foot, reaching $32.95 in the third quarter.
ASKING rents only tell part of the story, since other lease terms have an effect on the total cost of a deal. Funds provided by landlords for the construction of interior space -- called work letters -- have been shrinking and the period of free rent growing steadily shorter, brokers say.
"Work letters have been declining from $50 a square foot a few years ago to $30 and under now," Mr. Powers said. "That adds to rent," he said, because tenants have to bear more of the cost of building their space. In the early 90's, when landlords were almost desperate to lure tenants, a year to a year and a half of free rent on a 10-year lease was common. Now. he said, "tenants are lucky to get the time of construction" during which they are not actually occupying the space and are paying rent somewhere else.
Although office rents seem lofty compared to those in the mid-1990's, they have just recovered the losses of the early part of the decade, real estate executives say. "Nominal rents are back to the 1980 level," said Mr. Swerdlow. "Adjusted for inflation, we are still not back to that level."
Averages are useful for tracking trends in the market, but they also obscure localized developments by blending the highs and lows of a market. More important, some real estate executives say, is the fact that rents in some parts of Manhattan have reached the level where nonsubsidized new construction is economically feasible.
"It takes rent of about $65 a square foot to justify new construction without a subsidy and we have just gotten there in some parts of town," said Thomas Falus, president of Cushman & Wakefield's New York metropolitan area operations.
He noted that the new buildings in the Times Square area and the ones planned at Columbus Circle all involved assistance from government entities.
"We have over a dozen clients who are looking to do something with land that is dormant or underutilized," he said. "There is a lot of land in the pipeline and the question is whether it will be developed in an orderly fashion over the next 24 to 36 months or come out in a rush."
He said it would be useful if 4 million to 5 million square feet of office space were built over the next few years, noting that it would add only about 1 percent to Manhattan's inventory.
The capital markets are prepared to finance new construction as long as certain conditions are met, said John D. Lyons, the executive managing director of Granite Partners, a real estate finance company. "The capital is there to finance new construction as long as it is a quality project with ample preleasing," he said.
Unlike the early 1980's, when lenders were willing to finance new construction on a purely speculative basis, today's investors want a high level of assurance that the buildings will be occupied once completed, he said.
And while real estate investment trusts have diminished as a factor in the market, another class of investors, known as opportunity funds, has arisen to take their place. "Opportunity funds have raised $29 billion in capital in the first three quarters of this year," he said. "REIT's at their height in 1997 only raised $37 billion."
REIT investment in the city has declined by 12 percent since the third quarter of 1998 while private investors increased their presence in the city by 27 percent, accounting for almost half the total office transactions through the third quarter.
With the leasing market strong, buildings in Manhattan have held their value or increased in price. According to Granite, buildings in Midtown South increased 7 percent to an average of $157 a square foot over the same time last year, while those in midtown held at $197 a square foot and those downtown remained at an average of $122 a square foot.
While declining vacancies and rising rental rates are good news for owners of property, the situation can be difficult for brokers whose business depends on finding space and making deals.
"This is a very frustrating market to work in," said Robert Emden, an executive managing director of Grubb & Ellis who specializes in midtown properties. "You have to canvass the market to find out where space is going to become available before it hits the market. Once it is on the market, it's old news."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Swerdlow of CB Richard Ellis's New York office notes triple-digit rents at top of midtown market. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); BGC PARTNERS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CITIES (73%); LEASING INDUSTRY (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



141 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 3; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: ON THE MAP;
Going to School on Saturday, to Learn Things Hungarian

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:
On a beautiful fall Saturday recently, most youngsters were enjoying the last of the good weather with their friends. But 61 young people traveled to New Brunswick, as they do every Saturday during the school year, to attend classes at the Szechenyi Hungarian Saturday School and Kindergarten.
In addition to learning the language -- most classes are taught in Hungarian --they learn about Hungarian history, culture, geography and literature. All of the children, from kindergartners to teenagers, either immigrated to the United States from Hungary with their families or are first-generation Americans. 
 Zoltan E. Koller, a civil engineer who teaches history at the school, recently talked about its mission.
Q. Why was the school formed?
A. A large number of Hungarians came to the United States at the turn of the century for economic reasons, and another large wave came after the 1956 revolution, which was the first organized, armed revolt against Communism. Many of the ones who came at the turn of the century were drawn to this area to work in the factories and mills. Then, within a few months after the 1956 revolution ended in November, 250,000 people left Hungary. At least 100,000 of them came to the New Jersey-New York-Connecticut-Pennsylvania region, and many of those came to New Brunswick, where there was already a large Hungarian community. The 1990 census counted 40,000 Hungarians in Middlesex County alone.
Now, some of the families have moved away from this immediate area, but the children still come here for classes. We have one family from Pennsylvania and one from Garden City, N.Y., who come every Saturday.
Q. Who is the school named after?
A. Istvan Szechenyi was a rich Hungarian born in 1791 who helped initiate reform movements in the 1820's and 30's. A writer, economist and politician, he helped finance a lot of the modernization of the country at that time, including building the first fixed bridge between Buda and Pest.
Q. What do you hope to accomplish through the school?
A. It is important for the children to learn the language, to know of their past and where they came from. They learn more about themselves, and they learn the American culture by being able to look at it from the vantage point of another culture. In addition to learning their heritage, I think it makes the children more tolerant of all people and of their differences.
We can all learn from the past and a knowledge of their history grounds them. The Hungarian Ambassador to the United States, Dr. Geza Jeszenszky, was here Oct. 23 to mark the 43rd anniversary of the 1956 revolution. He laid a wreath on a Hungarian memorial in New Brunswick. Until recently, any commemoration of the revolution was forbidden in Hungary, so this was an important event. The ceremony also marked the 10th anniversary of Hungary converting from a socialist country to a democratic republic.
Q. How do Hungarian children celebrate the holidays?
A. On the Monday after Easter, the tradition is for young boys to sprinkle the girls with water and in return the girls give the boys an egg. The tradition has its roots in an ancient pagan fertility rite. It is still practiced by families here. Also at Easter, the tradition is to color eggs, but with elaborate folk paintings. People familiar with the art can distinguish Hungarian painted eggs from Ukrainian ones, for instance.
The custom around Christmas is for youngsters dressed as shepherds to sing Hungarian Christmas songs at homes and to get cake in return as thanks. St. Nicholas Day is Dec. 6 and is a gift-giving day separate from Christmas. KAREN DeMASTERS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zoltan E. Koller teaching at the Szechenyi Hungarian Saturday School and Kindergarten in New Brunswick. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SZECHENYI HUNGARIAN SATURDAY SCHOOL (NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ) MIDDLESEX COUNTY UTILITIES AUTHORITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SZECHENYI HUNGARIAN SATURDAY SCHOOL (NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNGARY; UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HISTORY CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); WRITERS (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); CENSUS (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%); 

PERSON: KOLLER, ZOLTAN E

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



142 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2442 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Island, Wired but Underpopulated

BYLINE: By ALLAN RICHTER 

 BODY:
FAYYAZ YOUNAS, a 26-year-old software engineer and SUNY Stony Brook graduate, was explaining how his penchant for risk had taken him from Long Island to Northern California's Silicon Valley when, as if on cue, an earthquake shook his Palo Alto, Calif., office.
"People here have a pretty healthy appetite for risk," Mr. Younas said as the mild tremor rattled sports equipment in the corner of his cubicle. His own career illustrates the claim. When his first Silicon Valley job, at the industry giant Sun Microsystems, became too routine, he left for Informatica, a younger, less established company. 
 Mr. Younas is just the kind of employee that many Long Island companies would love to lure back to the Island. Matthew Crosson, president of the Long Island Association, the area's largest business organization, estimates that as many as 10,000 technical jobs -- more than one in eight such jobs on the Island -- are unfilled for lack of qualified applicants. Business leaders say the severe shortage of high-tech workers threatens to derail efforts to turn the Island's tech sector into an economic cornerstone and could stunt the region's economic growth.
The flight of Long Island talent to better-known tech hot spots is only half of the problem, business leaders say. Even if every Long Island tech grad stayed on the Island, it still wouldn't close the gap. Many college-level technology classes at Long Island universities are underenrolled. Many young Long Islanders are leery of technical careers, having seen their parents or their friends' families fall victim to the layoffs of the late 1980's and early 1990's, when the region's defense industry imploded. Sixty thousand jobs, many of them in the high-tech sector, were lost.
Long Island's major universities annually produce only about 250 of the 1,000 engineers and about 350 of the 2,000 computer science majors the Island needs, said Yacov Shamash, acting vice president of economic development and dean of the College of Engineering and Applied Science at SUNY Stony Brook. Those numbers will be cut, at least in the short term, by Polytechnic University's recent decision to shut down its undergraduate program in Farmingdale, which annually produced more than 60 tech grads.
Virtually all industries on Long Island are suffering from a labor shortage as the region's economic boom continues Page 14 . But the situation is most critical in high-tech disciplines, and not just at companies like Computer Associates or Symbol Technologies. The crunch affects any company big enough to have a systems manager, a category that includes an ever-broader swath of Island businesses. In an increasingly computer- and Internet-driven economy, not having enough tech help can be a crippling disadvantage.
Mr. Crosson said there was no easy fix. "The fact that Long Island is not unique in this respect is one of the problems we have," he said. "We are in the midst of a very intense competition that is only going to become more pronounced as the years go by."
Economic developers, high-tech companies and educators are searching for creative initiatives to fill the deficit. One program sponsored by the Long Island Works Coalition, a nonprofit group established by the Long Island Association that includes businesses, other nonprofit groups, schools and universities, is intended to reach out to the best of the Island's scientifically oriented high school graduates, most of whom leave the area to pursue their technical degrees, Mr. Crosson said.
Early next year, Long Island high school teachers will be sent around the country to appeal to former students who are pursuing technical degrees out of state, Mr. Crosson said. With recruiters from local high-tech companies in tow, the teachers will try to encourage the students to return for jobs.
Details are still being worked out, but Mr. Crosson said he expects the Long Island tech companies that send the recruiters to foot the bill.
"The cost of relocating people unfamiliar with Long Island is even higher, so on balance, targeted recruitment of that kind could be very cost-effective," Mr. Crosson said. "The idea, of course, is that the kids who have gone off to college are recruited not just by a stranger from companies they've barely heard of, but by a teacher whom they know and trust."
On the success of such programs ride regional planners' hopes of achieving some kind of critical mass and distinct identity for the Island's high-tech industries. Forty percent of Long Island's 50 fastest-growing tech companies are in software and information technology, according to the consultancy Deloitte & Touche, and the various tech industries have replaced about a third of the lost defense jobs, according to the Long Island Association. But the Island lacks the labor-drawing power that a single strong identity gives high-tech regions such as Denver (communications), lower Manhattan (the Internet), Boston (electronics) or South San Francisco (biotechnology).
In recent years, the Long Island Association has focused on five technology industries -- biotechnology, medical imaging and health care information systems, graphic communications, computer software and emerging electronics. Now the coalition is narrowing its focus, Mr. Crosson said, in an effort to identify a blend of tech industries as the Island's own high-tech niche.
Planners and businesses are discussing at least a dozen combinations of tech industries. Among these is genomics, applying data from gene identification to develop new treatments against disease. Another is biocomputing, simulating biological processes to similarly develop new medicines and devices, in orthopedics, for instance.
While the search for a viable hybrid tech industry proceeds, efforts to shore up the Island's core tech industries continue. Weary of the departure of more than half a dozen biotechnology companies to hubs around the country, Huntington and Babylon are trying to create a 10-mile biotech corridor along Route 110, said Donald Middleton, the Town of Huntington deputy director of planning and environment.
"If there can be a Miracle Mile, there can be a golden 10-mile biotechnology center between Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory at the north end and the Broadhollow Bioscience Park that's being built at SUNY Farmingdale," Mr. Middleton said. "We're about 20 years behind what's been done in San Francisco, where the university system has served as an incubator, a catalyst, and that should have been done here a long time ago. I think the 110 corridor should be the hub of the biotechnology industry."
With SUNY Farmingdale and the private sector as partners, and the Long Island Regional Planning Board consulting, the two-month-old Route 110 Redevelopment Corporation is studying anticipated infrastructure challenges, Mr. Middleton said. About 110,000, or 20 percent of Suffolk's 550,000 jobs, are along Route 110, he said. To ease congestion, the project is considering a light rail system along the roadway and is recommending that more area businesses provide on-site day care.
Peter Goldsmith, chairman of the Long Island Software and Technology Network, is optimistic that word is spreading about Long Island's viability as a technology hub. As evidence he points to the sponsorship of the Great River-based Long Island Technology Center in recent weeks by Microsoft and Oracle, the largest software companies in the country. They signal the first time such large sponsors from outside the region have signed on, he said.
But developers will need more than real estate and a label, said John Putzier, president of the technology group at the Society of Human Resource Managers. "I hate to burst the balloon, but every community I go to today wants to put up this aura that they are technologically driven and they are the place to be, the destination of choice," Mr. Putzier said. "I went through an area this week called the Technology Corridor in West Virginia and it was nothing but open fields. It's becoming almost a cliche."
As local private- and public-sector groups wrestle with the labor shortages, the Island's high-tech companies are offering more perks and incentives to lure prospective employees and keep the workers they already have.
Islandia-based Computer Associates can feel more like a cruise ship than the third largest software company in the country. Workers can begin their day with free Continental breakfast and move on to aerobic step exercises in the fitness center, visit their children at the on-site day-care center, unwind with a little tennis or basketball and treat themselves to free dinner buffet.
This year the software giant revised its employee referral bonus, awarding $1,000 to $5,000 to employees who recruit talent versus the flat $600 it had paid, said Deborah Coughlin, senior vice president of human resources. As of late September, 311 referrals had turned into jobs compared with 145 for all of last year at the company's Islandia headquarters, where the company employs more than 3,000.
Jody O'Donnell, president of Relocation Solutions, a 10-year-old Northport company that advises clients on home purchases and other aspects of moving workers, said tech companies on Long Island and elsewhere were going to unprecedented lengths to bring talent on board.
More than ever, Ms. O'Donnell said, companies have been willing to pay the relocation penalties imposed when an employee abandons another company soon after the moving van leaves. One Long Island technology company recently paid the visa costs incurred by an out-of-state company whose recent hire changed his mind and accepted the Long Island post, Ms. O'Donnell said.
But the salaries paid to Long Island tech employees are not going to reverse the California Gold Rush. A computer engineer working on Long Island earns an average salary slightly higher than the national mean, though slightly lower than average salaries in such high-tech hotbeds as Austin, San Jose and Boston, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. But Long Island computer programmers, to cite another example, don't fare as well.
Because high-tech companies in other regions are also raising salaries to stem their labor shortages, the Island's tech companies are hard-pressed to make their salaries stand out, Ms. O'Donnell said.
"Everyone is reacting to the same situation," she said. "They're all competing for the same employees."
The intense shortage is prompting the Long Island Association to enter the debate brewing in the United States Senate over whether to open the doors to more foreign high-tech labor, Mr. Crosson said. The association is likely to support a loosening of restrictions on foreign workers, he added.
In large measure, Mr. Crosson blames Long Island's technology companies for the flight of local talent. Local corporations are not awarding internships early enough or scholarships large enough to compete with other companies around the country, he asserted.
"In Silicon Valley, for example, companies are recruiting high school students as summer interns and then once they have identified kids who are potential employees and talent, they are paying all or most of their college tuition," Mr. Crosson said. "By way of contrast it's sometimes difficult to persuade high-tech companies here to bring on additional college students as summer interns even though they may be only as little as a year or two away from graduation or employment. What is frustrating is the same companies will pay a relocation fee of $75,000 or more to bring a young person from another part of the country."
But Ms. Coughlin, the Computer Associates human resources executive, said her company had committed to help SUNY Stony Brook double the size of its computer science department in the next several years. The company has plans to work with the school on its curriculum, train professors "and maybe even loan some of our own people as professors," she said. The problem is "you just don't have enough new bodies coming out of the schools," she said.
Last month, the company agreed to participate in Suffolk County's affordable housing program, a pivotal issue in attracting talent, by providing a subsidy to new homeowners.
Many business leaders agree that the short-term prospects are dim for attracting large numbers of high-tech workers. But they are just as confident of some kind of payoff farther down the road.
H. Michael Boyd, a human resources analyst at International Data Corp. of Framingham, Mass., said that Long Island planners might be onto something by playing up the bonds the Island's homegrown talent have with the area. Dr. Boyd recounted the difficulty recruiting Long Islanders away from the region even during the height of the defense layoffs.
"There was a strong, I don't want to say emotional attachment, but cultural attachment about various parts of the Island that people didn't want to leave," he said.
John Hoctor, 25, a Centereach native, said that local planners would need more than high school teachers and memories of home to bring them back.
"I think it would be kind of funny to have my high school teacher come out and recruit me," said Mr. Hoctor, who earned his bachelor's and master's in mechanical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology last year. He has started a venture capital fund in Manhattan and did not foresee a return to the Island.
"I owe a lot to my high school teachers," he said. "I got a very good education at Centereach High School, but I wouldn't feel they would have recruiting power over me. It would be nice to see them again, but they wouldn't draw me back to Long Island."
But Mr. Younas, the Palo Alto-based software engineer and SUNY Stony Brook graduate, said that he and some of his Stony Brook friends who also left after graduating could return. Mr. Younas and his best friends from college, Mohamed Abdelsadek, 24, and Kwasi Mireku, 32, excelled at the university, graduated at the top of their 1996 class and heartily embraced all that the school offered.
They worked together on a complex senior project that translated data into 3-D images. And together they built a cardboard catamaran that stayed afloat for a regatta on a university pond. The three now meet weekly via an Internet chat room, where Mr. Younas said he has been talking up the idea of launching their own tech startup.
"One of the places we were considering was Long Island," Mr. Younas said. "It's close to the financial world and has low real estate costs. It has some strategic value. Maybe one fine day we'll end up there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Computer Associates provides day care for its employees, enabling John Siebert and his daughter, Kelly, to share lunch. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 14); With nationwide competition for high-technology employees, Long Island businesses often offer perks to land and keep workers. Computer Associates, based in Islandia, the third-largest software company in the country, provides a fitness center, left, an on-site day-care center, top, a chance for workers to eat lunch with their children, above, and a free dinner buffet, below. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Technical Differences"
How high-tech job salaries in Long Island compare to those in other cities.
 
Mean annual salaries, Oct. 1997 - Aug. 1998
 
Computer programmer
 
LONG ISLAND -- $50,310
NEW YORK -- $60,750
SAN JOSE -- $68,830
DENVER -- $51,190
BOSTON -- $58,140
AUSTIN -- $41,680
U.S. -- $50,490
 
Computer engineer
 
LONG ISLAND -- $58,490
NEW YORK -- $59,110
SAN JOSE -- $60,680
DENVER -- $56,530
BOSTON -- $62,320
AUSTIN -- $58,920
U.S. -- $56,590
 
Electrical engineer
 
LONG ISLAND -- $57,440
NEW YORK -- $59,350
SAN JOSE -- $69,270
DENVER -- $53,990
BOSTON -- $57,320
AUSTIN -- $56,640
U.S. -- $56,820
 
(Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); CA INC (51%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (83%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (83%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHORTAGES; ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); EARTHQUAKES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); FAMILY (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TRENDS (66%); 

PERSON: RICHTER, ALLAN ANN LIVERMORE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



143 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: In Nassau, the Millennium Comes Early;
The Budget Triggered One Voter Revolt, and There May be More in Store

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
THE key to the revolution that took place in Nassau County's voting booths last week -- and the key to much of the political maneuvering likely to captivate county government for the next two years -- can be found at a storefront office a couple doors away from the Dunkin Donuts on Merrick Road in Bellmore.
There, in the headquarters of David W. Denenberg's Democratic campaign for the County Legislature's 19th District, three big computer printouts adorn a wall. In bold capital letters, they all say the same thing: 
 "IT'S THE BUDGET, STUPID!"
Indeed, the county government's fiscal crisis under County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta and his fellow Republicans in the Legislature's majority was the overriding issue that led to the unparalleled election upset. Propelled by voter rebellion over the county's $300 million deficit and its tax increases, the Democrats won control of the legislature for the first time in Nassau's 100-year history.
And the county's lingering budget problem will continue to be the overriding issue that the Democrats face when they take office, political experts say.
"It will not go away," said Arthur J. Kremer, who was the Democratic chairman of the State Assembly's Ways and Means Committee and is now in the private practice of law. "It will be continuing throughout their tenure. It's a difficult challenge, but if they can solve the budget and stabilize the county, they can be in power a long time.'
Besides capturing the county Legislature, the Democrats also retained their hold on North Hempstead Town and the cities of Glen Cove and Long Beach. Moreover, they gained two seats on the Oyster Bay Town Board, where they had never had more than one. Most astonishing of all, the Democrats took two seats on the town board of Hempstead -- the most populous town in America and the citadel of the Nassau Republican organization. Historians had to go back to 1907 to find the last Democrat to hold public office in that town.
Democratic leaders themselves were surprised by the extent of their inroads. Now they seek to parlay their victories into permanent gains instead of a one-term fluke. It will not be easy, say politicians on both sides.
"For them, the good news -- and the bad news -- is that they won," said Frederick E. Parola, who as the Republican county comptroller has been critiquing Mr. Gulotta's budgets for years. "They're the party in control now, and it's their responsibility to make the hard decisions."
The Legislature's departing Republican majority claims that the budget it adopted three days before the election largely solved the county's fiscal problems, by imposing a combination of cuts and unpopular revenue increases that included a 10.5 percent raise in county property taxes, a new 1 percent tax on real estate sales and various surcharges in fees.
"We made a lot of progress governmentally," said the Legislature's presiding officer and Republican majority leader, Bruce A. Blakeman. "The '99 deficit will be closed out in a few days, we've gone a long way toward creating structural balance into the future, and I believe fiscal year 2000 is structurally balanced. We went so far that we had to inflict a lot of pain, not popular things to do in an election year."
Mr. Blakeman learned first-hand just how unpopular the budget was. A promising political career suffered a heavy blow when he became the biggest casualty of the Democratic sweep, losing his own seat.
"The key person out front was Bruce, selling the Republican plan and making TV commercials," Mr. Parola said, "and that's who paid the price, along with some of his colleagues."
Despite Mr. Blakeman's claims of solving most of the fiscal crisis, critics say that crucial elements of the new $2 billion-plus budget have yet to be seen -- even the total figures remain unknown. The critics also say that the budget is based on various revenue estimates and cost reductions that are doubtful and one-shot deals that need to be replaced by something else to plug budget gaps in future years. Some critics already predict more deficits.
"The issue continues to be the budget, and if we don't cure the budget problem, voters will turn back away from the Democrats," said Mr. Denenberg. "We're inheriting an awful problem. We have a unique opportunity that only lasts two years, unless we can prove that we can handle it and handle it correctly. The hard work begins now."
His motto on the importance of the budget was modeled on the theme that President Clinton's political operative, James Carville, drummed into his campaign workers: "It's the economy, stupid."
Mr. Denenberg was one of five Democratic challengers who upset incumbent Republican legislators. Added to the five Democrats already in the Legislature, the 10 will form a narrow majority when the new body takes office on Jan. 1. The nine Republican legislators who survived the election will become the new minority. They all come up for election in 2001 -- along with Nassau's top countywide officials, the county executive, comptroller and district attorney.
"Obviously the overarching issue is getting the fiscal ship back in order -- that's really going to be the test for the Democratic majority," said the Nassau Democratic Party chairman, Thomas P. DiNapoli. Desmond Ryan, a former Republican aide in Suffolk who is now the executive director of a developers' group called the Association for a Better Long Island, said: "They've been given an enormous vote of confidence. The public is trusting them to make a change, and they must deliver."
Whatever problems may be hidden in the hundreds of pages of budget lines yet to be published and scrutinized, the Democrats' task is made all the more difficult by their own campaign platform. Notably, they promised to oppose any renewal of the 1 percent tax on real estate sales -- a measure that the Republicans say will yield $55 million annually -- when it expires at the end of next year.
"That's laudable," said Comptroller Parola, "but now they're stuck with reality. We're over the silly season now, and they've got to come up with $120 million" to make up for the real estate transfer tax and other budget shortages, he said.
"The Blakeman plan did not totally address the structural imbalance created by the administration," he said, meaning that the basic cost of county operations exceeds the recurring revenues. "The Democrats, I assume, will do more cutting."
One specific problem the comptroller cited is his staff's estimate that police costs are running $15 million above the budgeted figures.
Even after the election, the new budget adopted by the Republicans remained a mystery. "We haven't been able to decipher very much from what they did," said Mr. Gulotta's budget consultant, William R. Marshall. "It's long on rhetoric and short on details. I'm going on guesstimates on my part, because at the end of the day we threw our hands up. Last night I started making a spreadsheet myself, trying to see if I can make heads or tails of it."
Because Mr. Gulotta faces a deadline this week on whether to veto any parts of the budget, Mr. Marshall said, "we're behind the eight ball" in figuring out what is in it. He complained that the Republicans "substituted a lot of one-shot revenues," a tactic for which Mr. Gulotta's own budgets have been repeatedly attacked. He also asserted that the Legislature's budget restored some cuts that Mr. Gulotta made and added more taxes.
The director of the watchdog Nassau Citizens Budget Committee, Phoebe Goodman, said: "I don't know what's in the budget any more than other people, but I do know it's a terrible way to make a budget. I hope I'm wrong. I hope they knew exactly what they were doing. I'm doing this blindfolded, but I'm assuming they just narrowed the deficit somewhat. They couldn't close it; it's just too big."
Mr. Ryan prdicted: "The question this time next year will not be if we have a deficit, but how much."
Major parts of the budget include paying off most of last year's $193 million deficit by using $82 million from the sale of the county medical center and nursing home, $12 million from the sale of county land in Plainview, the $19 million settlement from a disastrous attempt to switch to a private health insurer for county workers and getting $3 million in appealed Medicaid reimbursements.
An advance payment from Nassau's share of the national settlement of the lawsuit against the tobacco industry will be used to close deficits and to pay for the next five years of $18 million annual subsidies due to the new public benefit corporation that is running the medical center and nursing home.
The Republican budget also listed $45 million in spending cuts, including 250 jobs, some through layoffs and others through attrition and the elimination of vacant positions. New revenues included various increases in state aid, reimbursements for housing inmates who should have been in state prisons and a $5 million reduction in subsidies for the public buses.
But the Legislature's Democratic leader, Judith Jacobs, said that the budget documents so far "are nothing more than a glorified press release." Many of the added revenues, she said, are far from guaranteed.
Comptroller Parola said that the Legislature "went halfway or maybe a quarter of the way" in solving the budget problems, "but obviously to the electorate, did not go far enough." His office has always acted impartially, he said, adding that "I look forward to working with the Democrats and with my guys" on the Republican side ins seeking to balance the books. Referring to the Legislature's term of office, he said: "It's going to be a fun two years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas P. DiNapoli, the Nassau Democratic Party chairman, celebrates with victors after besting a once-unbeatable G.O.P. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (58%); COUNTY LEGISLATURE (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNTY LEGISLATURE (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS COUNTIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); RETAILERS (72%); TAX LAW (68%); HISTORY (67%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE; GULOTTA, THOMAS S (COUNTY EXEC) ANN LIVERMORE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



144 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Little Ambassadors With Hearts In Need of Repair

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: VALHALLA

 BODY:
TWO Siberian toddlers have arrived in the United States on an adult-size mission: to serve as emissaries of Russia and symbols of an effort to improve relations between the two countries.
Because they were born with potentially fatal heart defects and faced limited prospects for reaching adulthood in Russia, Sophia Ovchinnikova and Sergei Yurinski are at the Westchester Medical Center here to undergo surgery not available in Russia. 
 Some political and business leaders are want the two babies, handpicked from among thousands of others suffering from congenital heart defects in Russia, will serve as symbols of healing between nations -- particularly in the area of nuclear disarmament.
"The children show the real human side of the work we're doing in Russia's nuclear cities," Energy Secretary Bill Richardson said last week. "Everyone -- Russians and Americans -- want what's best for kids."
The United States Department of Energy has been working in the remote Siberian regions of Tomsk, where Sophia lives, and Krasnoyarsk, Sergei's home, on a nonproliferation program aimed at reducing the availability of nuclear material for weapons.
Sophia, 13 months old, and Sergei, 22 months old, arrived at Kennedy International Airport on Oct. 6 to a red-carpet welcome and were taken with their mothers to the Children's Hospital of the 1,100-bed Westchester Medical Center. A motorcade including the New York City Police and Fire Departments, the Westchester County police and dignitaries and businessmen, accompanied them. Those present included Kirill Speransky, senior counselor of the Russian Mission to the United Nations, Edward Mastal, director of the Highly Enriched Uranium Transparancy Program of the United States Department of Energy, and Edward A. Stolzenberg, president and chief executive officer of the Westchester Medical Center.
The children's visit is sponsored by the Forum Club's Children of the World Foundation, a New York-based organization established by William Denis Fugazy, a limousine magnate and lobbyist, to give ailing youngsters in different parts of the world access to the most advanced medical techniques. The Forum Club, an organization of business and civic leaders, counts among its members Lee A. Iaccoca, the former chairman of the Chrysler Corporation.
The Siberian babies are the sixth and seventh to receive heart surgery in the United States under the sponsorship of Mr. Fugazy's foundation, which was formed last year.
Both Mr. Fugazy and Secretary Richardson said that because of the mutual humanitarian, economic and political benefits to both sides, American offers of medical assistance have been well received. The United States selected the two Russian children through the medical department of the Russian Ministry of Atomic Energy.
In many cases, care at American hospitals specializing in pediatric heart surgery is the only opportunity for sick children like Sophia and Sergei to live normal lives, said Dr. Lester C. Permut, the surgeon in charge of Sophia and Sergei's cases. The Westchester Medical Center is providing its services without charge to the children's families.
Dr. Permut said that Sophia and Sergei suffer from two of the most common heart disorders in children and that in the United States, the prognosis for such cases is excellent: a 95 percent percent survival rate after surgery.
"In this country, we consider these kinds of pediatric heart surgeries very routine operations," he said.
But in Russia, children having surgery to correct congenital heart defects have only a 5 percent chance of survival because advanced pediatric heart care is not available there. As Olga Victorovna Ovchinnikova, Sophia's mother, explained through an interpreter: "I was told my child could have surgery in Novosibirsk, but that it was highly experimental and there were no guarantees. Then we heard about this. It was like a miracle."
It is the first time that the Children's Hospital at the Westchester Medical Center -- one of only about 10 hospitals in the state licensed for pediatric heart surgery -- is taking part in the Children's Foundation program. More than 100 children each day are cared for at the center here, which has the region's only pediatric intensive care and neonatal intensive care centers. Next year, the Medical Center plans to complete construction of its new 257,500-square-foot, four-story Children's Hospital.
At the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York earlier this year, Anton Kozhedub, 3, of Ukraine and Maria Lucia Miller and Merolyn Roario, infants from the Dominican Republic, underwent heart surgery. Mr. Fugazy said those medical procedures, like the others that have been performed, "have opened avenues not there before and created new friendships."
In particular, Police Commissioner Howard Safir of New York City and law enforcement officials from the Dominican Republic have since exchanged information that has aided in arresting criminals. And pharmaceutical companies are exploring new business venues in the Dominican Republic. Also, George Steinbrenner, the principal owner of the Yankees, helped finance a hospital in the Dominican Republic, a country that is a rich source for American baseball teams.
In the latest partnership with Siberia, the most immediate and palpable gain is Sergei's speedy recovery. A hole in his heart has been repaired and he is making satisfactory progress, Carin Grossman, a hospital spokeswoman, said.
Dr. Permut, who performs about 150 open-heart procedures a year, explained that the wall that should have formed between the lower left and right chambers of Sergei's heart did not completely close when Sergei was in the womb -- resulting in an abnormal blood flow and increased pressure in the artery that goes through his lungs.
Before the operation, the blood pressure in the artery to Sergei's lungs was the same as that in his aorta, when it should have been one-fourth of the pressure. It has, however, finally begun to drop, but not to the level it should be.
Under ideal circumstances, the surgery should have been performed before Sergei reached 6 months. "It is already late to start fixing the problem," Dr. Permut said.
Sergei's lungs have suffered, although the damage is probably reversible, Dr. Permut said. Without the surgery, or a heart-lung transplant later on, Sergei would have lived only into his teenage years or perhaps until he was 20.
In contrast, Sophia is undergoing a correction of a hole between the two upper chambers of her heart at precisely the correct time in her life, Dr. Permut said. Her medical problem is less complex than Sergei's, although the mitral valve in her heart needs to be repaired as well. Without surgery, she might not have lived past her 20's, he said.
In interviews last week, Sophia's mother, Mrs. Ovchinnikova, and Sergei's mother, Yulia Sergeevna Yurinskaya, said they had been overwhelmed by the kindness New Yorkers have shown to them and their children.
"They've treated us like family," Mrs. Yurinskaya, a housekeeper at a Siberian factory said, speaking through Dr. Gregory Rozenblit, a director of the department that performs angioplasties at the Medical Center. Sergei's bed is littered with toy trucks and other presents from well-wishers.
Mrs. Yurinskaya is able to talk by phone every day to her husband Mikhail, who also works in a factory in Siberia, and to her parents and in-laws. "They were going out of their minds waiting," she said. "They were very worried about the baby, and at first they were crying because everything was so bad. But now they are crying because they're so happy."
Sophia lives with her mother, aunts and grandmother in a small town in Siberia. Ms. Ovchinnikova, a single mother who works as a housekeeper in a gym, said she talks to her relatives only about once a week at a pre-arranged time and place from the United States, because there is no phone in their apartment in Siberia.
When they do talk (the news from Siberia is that the snow has already begun to fall) the women discuss their new hopes for Sophia and changing relations between the two countries.
"We can't believe what is happening," Ms. Ovchinnikova said, "that after all these years of cold war tensions, there is now so much friendliness."
Sophia is awaiting surgery, and since their arrival in the United States, Sophia and her mother have lived in a small apartment here provided by the hospital, so that Sophia can recuperate from a cold and ear infection.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sergei Yurinksi, 2, and mother, Yulia Sergeevna Yurinskaya, with Dr. Lester C. Permut at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Sophia Ovchinnikova with her mother, Olga Victorovna Ovchinnikova. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER MEDICAL CENTER; FORUM CLUB CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (63%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER MEDICAL CENTER; FORUM CLUB US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; SIBERIA; UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HEART; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; SURGERY AND SURGEONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PEDIATRICS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MEDICAID (78%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (77%); HOSPITALS (76%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); POLICE FORCES (69%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); AIRPORTS (51%); 

PERSON: OVCHINNIKOVA, SOPHIA; YURINSKI, SERGEI; BRENNER, ELSA BILL RICHARDSON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



145 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: Bursting Schools Go on a Building Spree

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE 

 BODY:
AN unprecedented spurt of public school construction is under way in Connecticut. State records show that the total cost of construction projects approved by local districts in 1999 is three times what it averaged in previous years.
David Wedge, manager of the school facilities unit of the State Department of Education, said that local public school districts have submitted requests for partial reimbursement in state school building grants for 200 projects totaling $1.5 billion. During the last few years, he said, the total cost of school construction projects in Connecticut that have been submitted for reimbursement has been between $475 million and $736 million annually.
 "We expected an increase, but we didn't expect an increase of that magnitude," he said. 
 Mr. Wedge said that the favorable economy and the decaying conditions of many public schools, which were detailed in a State Department of Education report last year, combined with rising school enrollments, have resulted in the construction increase.
This isn't just happening in Connecticut, either. "School construction is a national phenomenon right now," he said.
School districts are not building the same kinds of schools that were built during the last great pulse of school construction, the baby boom years of the 1950's, 1960's and 1970's. There are some important differences that appear to be trends.
New schools are architecturally more interesting than those built 30 years ago. They are designed for growth and for use by the community when school is not in session. They accommodate a broader range of academic, athletic, artistic, and technological offerings than ever before. And their libraries have been reborn as media centers that have taken a more central, important role than previously.
Typical of the new schools is Ansonia High School, which opened just after Labor Day on a hilltop overlooking a wooded area with a man-made lake. The $23 million high school was described by Douglas Rudig, the Ansonia school superintendent, as the "centerpiece" of a $50.5 million restructuring of Ansonia's educational system that, he said, eliminated inequities between what students were offered in different parts of the city.
State reimbursement grants vary with the relative wealth of the school district, ranging from 80 percent for the poorest to 20 percent for the wealthiest. Ansonia received 76 percent reimbursement from the state.
Ansonia invested in technology in the high school. The entire school is linked with networked computers; there are foreign language, writing and mathematics computer labs, and a computer-assisted drafting lab; there are capabilities for distance learning, through which courses can be taught for students in other buildings, allowing Ansonia and neighboring municipalities to share specialized instruction courses. The school also has a television production studio, which students in Ansonia never had available to them before. Specialists in the media center can beam videotape recordings into classrooms.
The new high school also has expanded program accommodations for the arts. There is a new ceramics studio. The 450-seat auditorium has sophisticated sound and lighting equipment for student performances and there is a new suite of music rooms.
"This is the third year we've had music in the high school in over 20 years," said Maria Tangredi, a music teacher. "It just died away."
Building a new high school was an opportunity to expand and improve the city's educational offerings for students, said Wilhemenia Christon, the high school's principal.
"It is not the physical plant that is going to make this school," she said. "It's the programs. You can be in a castle, but if you don't do anything with it, then nothing is going to happen."
Curiously, Ansonia's school construction reversed the usual course of cause and effect. In most districts, the need for more school space to accommodate rapidly rising school enrollment has been the justification for improving the schools as well. But Ansonia's school enrollment had been projected to stay level, or even decline slightly for the next few years. Its decision to build and renovate schools was to improve them, and that seems to be the reason, Mr. Rudig said, for an unexpected increase of 130 students, more than 5 percent, in its school population in the last year. A few of those students transferred from a local state vocational school, but most were from families that had moved into Ansonia, attracted by the new schools, he said.
Not so for Ridgefield, where school enrollment is increasing 28.8 percent and growing. School Superintendent Ralph Wallace said school enrollment hit a peak in Ridgefield in 1979 at 4,910 pupils, and then declined to 3,293 in 1989. But it has been climbing for a decade, now standing at 4,806, and is projected to hit 5,846 in 2008.
But that's not all. As the State Department of Education's report on the condition of the state's schools noted, there has also been a decrease in class size, and furthermore, school enrollment increases are not distributed evenly across all cities and towns. So the fact that the state has about 550,000 public school students in schools built for 600,000 disguises the reality that most schools are either nearly full or overflowing.
To address its enrollment problem, Mr. Wallace said Ridgefield has begun a vigorous school building program, beginning with the construction of a $34 million middle school scheduled for completion in September 2001. It has three school projects included among those being considered for state reimbursement grants this year: the construction of a new elementary school, the enlargement and renovation of another elementary school, and the renovation of the old middle school. In the future, officials also hope to renovate and enlarge Ridgefield High School. Mr. Wallace said all of this will cost, conservatively, $72 million.
"People have held off and held off, making do with portable classrooms and using unconventional spaces like nurses rooms and faculty lounges as classrooms," Mr. Wallace said. There is no more spare space to use, and taxpayers in his town realized that waiting further merely meant paying more later on, he said.
As in Ansonia and many other communities, Ridgefield's school construction projects had to win approval in a voter referendum. "Community use was a big selling point," Mr. Wallace said.
So was technology, which is very popular with parents and the public. Like Ansonia High School, Ridgefield's new middle school will be fully wired for computer networks.
"We're emphasizing science," he said. That is because 96 percent of the town's graduates go to college, double the percentage of 40 or 50 years ago. Science labs will have classrooms built into them, and the woods adjacent to the school will feature trails for nature studies. The school will also have accommodations for a music performing arts program.
That makes Glastonbury's school construction a familiar story.
"We've had a 30 percent population growth in the middle schools in the 1990's," said Jacqueline Jacoby, the school superintendent.
Only two years ago, Glastonbury renovated all five of its elementary schools. The district is building a $38 million middle school that will also use woods on its grounds for an environmental studies program, will also be equipped with computers, will have a media center and will be designed for use by community groups. The middle school is scheduled to be opened for students in January 2001.
In June, she said, Glastonbury submitted requests for state reimbursement of 33.7 percent, its reimbursement rate, for a new $22 million elementary school and additions and renovations at its high school costing $38 million.
"Our schools are very heavily used by our community," Ms. Jacoby said. About 60 organizations and the local Parks and Recreation Department keep the town's schools booked every evening, she said.
Prominently located along busy Route 7, New Milford's new $48 million high school is scheduled for completion next summer.
Fully air-conditioned (another common feature of new schools in the state), the town's school superintendent, Raymond E. Avery, said the school is designed into three parts: the academic and administration portion in the center that includes the media center, the gym and athletic facilities at the south end, and the auditorium and performing arts rooms at the north end. Those three parts can be locked off from each other and used independently by students or the community, Mr. Avery said.
Besides all of the high-tech equipment, the performance arts rooms, and the glitter and drama of something new, some Ansonia High School students said there is a psychological benefit to their new school.
When the old Ansonia High School was opened in 1937, it made the cover of Life Magazine as an example of the most modern high school in the country. But over the following six decades, the school wore out and grew dingy and crowded, and that was embarrassing, some students said.
"People looked at us like we weren't good students because of the way our school looked," said Rebecca Judach, who was helping prepare the school's lobby for its public open house recently.
She and her friends, most of whom were cheerleaders and members of the student government, said the new school was academically inspiring both to students and teachers.
"I don't think anything's different," said Tiffany Goldson. "It's that we're different, in our minds."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of the school construction projects under way in the state is the high school for New Milford. Above, a view of the auditorium. At left, the front of the school. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Students work on their drawings during an arts class held outside of the new Ansonia High School. A class is held in the culinary arts lecture hall at Ansonia High School, which opened just after Labor Day. The school cost $23 million to build. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ANSONIA HIGH SCHOOL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANSONIA HIGH SCHOOL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES SCHOOL BUILDINGS (93%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TRENDS (74%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); DISTANCE LEARNING (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (64%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: WEDGE, DAVID; MUSANTE, FRED

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



146 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: An Important Fish Becomes Scarce

BYLINE: By SAM LIBBY 

 BODY:
SINCE Squanto taught the Pilgrims to fertilize their crops with menhaden, the abundance of the oily, pungent fish has been taken for granted along the Northeast coast. But during the last 10 years, adult menhaden, generally known as bunkers, have become scarce in the Northeast, affecting the food chain and causing a debate about the regulation of the menhaden fishing industry.
The Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission, a federal agency that monitors migratory fish along the Atlantic coast, reported that in 1998, the latest year for which statistics are available, 1 billion juvenile menhaden survived their first year, down from 2 billion in 1997. In 1990, the number was 6 billion and there were 7 billion in 1980. 
 "For years I haven't seen bunker," said Thomas Fitzgerald, a recreational fishermen from Madison. "When there's no big bunkers, there's no big blue fish. I always say the bunkers will come back next year and the blue fishing will be what it use to be. But it never happens. Something is wrong."
Biologists agree, but what exactly is causing the decline remains a mystery. Some experts said the bunker population has always been cyclical and the current numbers may just be a natural down cycle. Others said the bunker, which are used in fertilizer, livestock feed and food additives, are simply being overfished and may never recover if the industry doesn't cut back.
Menhaden range as far north as Nova Scotia and as far south as Florida. Among the things they eat are plankton. They are a vital food source for ospreys, bald eagles, seals and other marine mammals. Adult menhaden is the favored bait for blue fish, striped bass, king mackerel, red drum, sharks, tuna, crabs and lobster.
Because of the lack of adult bunkers in Long Island Sound, blue fish and striped bass are feeding more on river shad in the early spring, which is reducing their numbers, said David Simpson, a State Department of Environmental Protection supervisory fisheries biologist.
During a September public hearing in Old Lyme on the menhaden issue, recreational fishermen and environmentalists blamed the problem and the consequent decrease in Long Island Sound of large blue fish on overfishing by the industry.
Statistics from the fisheries commission show that the industry takes at least 90 percent of the annual catch. The remaining 10 percent of the commercial catch is used as bait for recreational fisheries or for lobster and crab commercial fisheries. The fisheries commission reported that the industry caught about 587 million pounds of menhaden off the Atlantic and Gulf coasts in 1997, down from 630 million pounds in 1996. In 1990, the catch was 877 million pounds.
"I'm bemused by the attention this issue is getting in Connecticut, said Barney White, vice president of the Omega Protein Corporation, a Hammond, La., company that makes food supplements, and chairman of the National Fish Meal and Oil Association. "The industry hasn't commercially fished Long Island Sound for the last three years, and has no plans to ever go back there."
It didn't always used to be that way.
"There use to be about eight bunker boats that operated out of New London in the late 1940's and 1950's," said Lawrence Malloy, 81, a second-generation Long Island Sound fishermen. "Many still had tall smoke stacks and coal burning steam engines. There were boats named Amagansett, Pocahontas, and Promised Land," Mr. Malloy said.
Now, according to fishery experts, most of the commercial bunker fishing is done in the southern half of the Chesapeake Bay in Virginia, where one of the menhaden rendering plants is located. Another is in North Carolina. The Virginia plant is owned by Zapata Protein, the parent company of Omega Protein.
Some environmentalists said the industry needs to be better regulated.
"Menhaden's enormous economic value to the public requires that they not be managed as a commercial fishery for the benefit of a narrow, commercial special interest," said Richard J. Weisburg of the Coastal Conservation Association, a national environmental organization focused on the preservation of fishery stocks.
Although commercial boats no longer fish in Long Island Sound, a moratorium in Connecticut prohibiting bunker fishing by the industry has been in effect for the last three years and has been extended two years to 2001, said Ernie Beckwith, manager of the state D.E.P.'s fisheries division. He said many states on the Atlantic coast have imposed moratoriums or increased regulations on the industries' fishing boats.
"The intent of fishery regulation is to preserve enough adult fish able to spawn and maintain the natural abundance of the species," Mr. Beckwith said.
Mr. White of Omega Protein said the industry is not causing the menhaden problem.
"Accusations that the industry is causing the decline of the menhaden population are just flat wrong," Mr. White said. "In a perfect year for commercial menhaden fishing, perhaps as much as 20 to 25 percent of the bio-mass of menhaden will be taken. But according to the scientific literature, as little as 3 percent of the menhaden bio-mass is needed to maintain the fish's population." He noted that a single female will produce 200,000 to 300,000 eggs.
Mr. White said another reason the menhaden population may be falling is because of the rebound of the striped bass, which feed on menhaden and have come back because commercial fishing has been prohibited on that species for the last three years.
Mr. Beckwith said there is no evidence that menhaden are being overfished.
"Commercial fishing is nowhere near what fishery biologists believe to be the maximum sustainable yield," Mr. Beckwith said. However, he said, as much as 70 percent of the fish being taken by the industry are three years old or younger. Because the fish commonly don't begin to reproduce until they are three, Mr. Beckwith said he is concerned that over the long-term catching those fish could further reduce the menhaden population.
Biologists believe the fall off in the numbers of menhaden is being caused by natural environmental conditions, such as wind and waves that move the fish away from areas where the juvenile menhaden can mature. According to fishery statistics, the same unfavorable conditions existed in the 1960's causing a comparable menhaden shortage in Long Island Sound.
Another theory about the scarcity of menhaden and blue fish in Long Island Sound is that these fish are simply remaining in the Atlantic and not entering the Sound. Biologists don't know why.
Because menhaden eat large amounts of plankton, which contribute to hypoxia or dissolved oxygen deficiencies in Long Island Sound and the Chesapeake, the Coastal Conservation Agency is calling for a moratorium on commercial fishing in the Chesapeake until the menhaden's role in maintaining water quality and possibly preventing hypoxia is studied, Mr. Weisburg said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: For five months each year, a trawler cruises Long Island Sound monitoring marine life. The boat's crew, Department of Environmental Protection scientists, began their survey in 1984. Recently, biologists measured lobsters and menhaden, below, from one to three years old. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OME (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (80%); NAICS114111 FINFISH FISHING (80%); SIC2077 ANIMAL & MARINE FATS & OILS (80%); SIC0912 FINFISH (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OMEGA PROTEIN CORP (80%); ATLANTIC STATES MARINE FISHERIES COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC STATES MARINE FISHERIES COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND SOUND; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; MENHADEN (FISH) FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (89%); SPORT FISHING (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); FISHERIES (89%); FISHES (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); FERTILIZERS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); ANIMAL FOODS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); MARINE BIOLOGY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BIRDS (76%); MAMMALS (76%); CRUSTACEANS (76%); BIOLOGY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); COMMERCIAL LAW (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); LIVESTOCK FEED (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (61%); FINFISH FISHING (56%); SHELLFISH FISHING (56%); 

PERSON: LIBBY, SAM CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



147 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /New Jersey;
For Newark's Central Ward, 206 Town Houses

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
BY next summer 206 town houses for low- and moderate-income families are expected to be completed on two 6.5-acre sites on either side of Irvine Turner Boulevard between West Kinney and Prince Streets in Newark's Central Ward. The sites are a block from where the 1967 racial riots erupted, pushing the city into decline.
Instead of being built with traditional techniques the wall panels and roof trusses for the homes are being manufactured in a factory elsewhere in the city and will be assembled on the site, where the rest of the construction will be completed. 
 Foundations for the first 92 homes of the project, called Community Hills, are under way, as is the assemblage of the wall panels for the 1,000- to 1,100-square-foot two-story houses. They will be sold for $20,000 to $50,475 to families earning $18,000 to $25,000 a year, depending on family size. The $25 million project will also include an 18,000 square foot day care and community center and three vest-pocket parks.
The housing components are being manufactured by NCC Technologies, an affiliate of New Community Corporation of Newark, the developer. The nonprofit developer, which builds 300 residences a year, most of them in Newark, opened its factory last year on one 40,000 square foot floor of the three-story, long-dormant former Borden's milk processing plant at Orange and Nesbitt Streets, near Route 280.
On the other two floors, said Raymond M. Codey, director of development for New Community, will be office space for start-up companies and support services on running a small business and securing loans and grants.
On part of the site New Community also has city approval to build a 40,000 square foot, single level factory with a 50 foot high ceiling, which will start to rise by year's end and, using wall panels, be completed four months later. There, the group envisions manufacturing modules for entire houses, underscoring its resolve to turn the operation into a long-term business venture like other businesses it runs.
New Community, for example, owns the land under a 57,000 square foot retail center on Bergen Street and South Orange Avenue in Newark and is part owner of its 45,000 square foot Pathmark Supermarket, which Pathmark operates. The group also owns and operates the center's 12,000 square feet of smaller stores.
New Community's enterprise will be the latest to test factory-built housing in New Jersey. The concept is considered an effective way to produce housing for lower income buyers or renters, but few factories have survived in the state.
Explaining the reason for opening the factory and planning a second one, Mr. Codey said: "It's a way for us not only to do affordable housing projects for ourselves and others, but to create jobs."
Mayor Sharpe James of Newark described the venture as "a win-win" situation. "For the last 15 years housing has been trucked into Newark from factories in Pennsylvania and Virginia and it made no sense," he said. "We should have a factory to build housing in and employ people from the city."
NEW COMMUNITY tested the current factory, which employs 12 people, by manufacturing 2,500 wall panels for the builder of 200 town houses on Avon Avenue and Irvine Turner Boulevard. That project is part of the Newark Public Housing Authority's program to create 1,777 such residences to replace rentals in 12 of the city's bleak public housing towers.
Community Hills is not part of the authority's replacement program, which is the result of a 1989 settlement of a federal lawsuit filed by tenant and housing groups. But it is part of the larger effort to change the face of housing for low-income people in the city, said Harry Robinson, a spokesman for the housing authority.
The authority is under contract to sell New Community the two sites for its project for about $250,000. The group is building the project using a $24.8 million grant it initially received from the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development to take over and renovate two vacant public housing towers. But last year H.U.D. permitted the group to build the current project, the second phase of which will go up across the street from the first on a site where four high-rises once stood and a fifth will soon be razed.
Below-market-rate mortgages will be available to buyers at the project from the New Jersey Mortgage Finance Agency and conventional lenders. Buyers will be required to make no more than a 5 percent down payment for the house.
The two projects, said Mr. Codey, jump-started the first factory and convinced New Community that operating it as well as the planned modular plant would enable "us to fill a market niche." The group bought the old Borden's plant for $10,000 at a bankruptcy auction and paid $600,000 in back takes owed to the city by the former owner. NCC Technologies, the nonprofit group's manufacturing affiliate, is run by Rudy Faust and Mark Flesher, who have backgrounds in residential construction in New Jersey.
Using factory-built components can lower the cost of producing a home by 15 percent over traditional houses and shave off six months from the production schedule, largely because of greater operating efficiencies, Mr. Codey said. Those figures, he added, rise to a savings of 20 to 30 percent when entire homes are made in a factory.
In such a setting the quality of the homes can be improved because they can be made year-round and under closer supervision, Mr. Codey said, adding that in terms of shipping "we can also offer a quicker turnaround" than out-of-state factories.
As of August, 467 manufactured homes were produced in New Jersey, up from 349 the same time in 1998, according to the New Jersey Manufactured Housing Association, a nonprofit trade group in Trenton. The state "has not been a big user of manufactured homes, but the use is growing," said Judith A. Thornton, the group's executive director, adding that "more and more builders are using prefabricated parts in home construction."
Ms. Thornton said factories "never lasted the test of time" because of, among other things, the high cost of operating in the state, finding workers and union resistance to nonunion manufacturers.
New Community has addressed those issues. Through its Workforce Development Center it has trained unemployed city residents to work in the factory at lower than prevailing wages. Mr. Codey said unions supported this endeavor because it would ultimately provide jobs for union members in completing the housing.
He said his corporation had received $3.5 million in federal grants, as well as $2 million in grants and low-interest loans from the Prudential Insurance Company of Newark, to set up the existing factory and build the new one, helping to reduce costs. The city also granted a tax abatement for the factory site, insuring the project's long-term financial viability, Mr. Codey said.
In addition to using the factories to produce its own low cost housing projects, Mr. Codey said New Community was in discussions with private and nonprofit developers to manufacture components and houses for projects in the state and, of course, in Newark. Mayor James predicted that the city, which plans to build 1,000 homes by the end of next year, and the housing authority would be "big users."
Since the authority's housing replacement program began in 1993, 959 of the planned 1,777 low-rise homes have been built and the remaining 818 are in various stages of planning, said Mr. Robinson, its spokesman. He said the authority also recently received a $35 million federal grant to raze additional high-rises and replace them with more low-rise residences beyond those required under the 1989 settlement. The hope is to build 800 mixed-income rental and for-sale units, he said.
While Newark's program is the largest in the state, five other cities -- Elizabeth, New Brunswick, Paterson, Jersey City and Atlantic City -- are involved in similar efforts, which is a market Mr. Codey said he intended to tap. But to guard against downturns in the residential market, he added, the factories will also turn out prefabricated parts and building modules for commercial and institutional uses such as charter schools and day care centers, for which there is a "built-up demand in urban areas, particularly Newark."
For the first 92-unit phase of Community Hills, to be completed by February, New Community's existing factory will produce 1,200 wall panels for the two- and three-bedroom houses. Each of the vinyl- and brick-faced homes, designed by Mikesell & Associates of Newark, will have a washer and dryer and one parking space.
Construction of the remaining 114 homes will begin once the last public housing tower on the second site is razed by year's end, said Mr. Codey. They are to be completed by the summer, he said.
"This is an effort to rebuild Newark one house, one job and one family at a time," he added.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of Community Hills town houses in Newark, which will replace high-rise Central Ward public housing. (Mikesell & Associates)
 
Map of Newark highlighting Communtiy Hills

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (83%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW COMMUNITY CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (75%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); RETAILERS (73%); RIOTS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); ROOFING MATERIALS (71%); FLUID MILK MFG (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); STARTUPS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); 

PERSON: RAYMOND M CODEY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



148 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 8; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
Sensing Room for Growth, Home Depot Thinks Small

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: EAST BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
Elizabeth Bacorn was in a hurry. After selecting paint to touch up the fireplace in her Old Bridge home, Ms. Bacorn scoured the aisles of the new Villager's Hardware here for her next purchase.
Christine and Jack Godowski of Sayerville were checking front doors, reviewing the prices as well as the merits of a free installation. And Kay Mirando was looking for new miniblinds for her kitchen but was determined not to spend a fortune. 
 It was a typical Saturday at Villager's, the latest retail experiment from Home Depot, the Atlanta-based home-improvement giant. The shoppers came for bargains, convenience, service -- and out of curiosity.
Indeed, when Villager's opened here in June, it was the first hardware store the chain opened in its gamble to capture part of the $50 billion a year home-decorating and remodeling business not served by big box retailers. Not surprisingly, Home Depot, which viewed New Jersey as fertile ground, decided to test its concept here. Three more are expected to open in central New Jersey by the end of the year.
Villager's is a baby big box store intended to appeal to both the Martha Stewarts and the Bob Vilas of the do-it-yourself crowd and to provide an updated version of the mom-and-pop hardware store.
Robert J. Wittman, Home Depot's senior vice president for business development, said the decision to make New Jersey a testing ground was a simple one.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Wittman recited New Jersey's retail vital statistics: the second most densely populated state in the nation with 8.1 million residents; an average per capita income of $33,937, second only to Connecticut's, and an aging housing stock.
Translation: Baby boomers with discretionary money to spend on sprucing up their charming but troublesome old homes.
Mr. Wittman said other factors included the state's diverse economy, a qualified labor pool and the Whitman administration's pro-business attitude.
Moreover, he said Home Depot's Northeast headquarters is in South Plainfield, and the chain has 30 stores in the state.
"The reception here has been terrific," Mr. Wittman said.
He declined to give any specific figures, but added that Villager's "is doing better than expected" in terms of customer traffic and sales.
John M. Harris, a research analyst at Schroder & Company in Manhattan, who follows Home Depot, said the concept "showed that the company was planning for future growth and to enter different market segments before it was absolutely necessary."
Mr. Harris added that Home Depot had five years of growth left to open its typical big box stores, and that Villager's was a "kind of contingency planning for the future because we all realize all big boxes will run out of room sometime."
For now, he said, "it fills a niche big boxes don't in terms of convenience."
Cynthia A. Nelson, director of real estate at PricewaterhouseCoopers, agreed that the choice made sense because given its presence in New Jersey, the chain "will be able to leverage off its brand name."
Ted Kraus, a retail consultant in Mercerville, added that despite the state's seemingly endless shopping outlets, "we are under-retailed."
Mr. Kraus said that while there is likely to be some carnage as a result of the Villager stores, the brunt of the new hardwares will be felt by linen and houseware stores.
"Don't get me wrong," he added. "Some of the little hardware stores will be impacted, but those that survived Home Depot probably will again."
That's how Timothy Verasca -- the third generation in his family to run Spotswood Hardware -- sees it.
"So far there hasn't been any impact" on his family's hardware store, which has operated on Main Street in Spotswood -- two miles from the new Villager's -- for the last 58 years, Mr. Verasca said. "Business is up."
What is in his favor, he said, is that "Villager's is on a highway and the locals don't want to deal with traffic. People also know me, know I live in the community and have the same problems they do."
For instance, he said, his store carries copper wiring because most houses in the area were built before the 1970's, when aluminum wiring became common.
Service is also what Raymond Cappella feels insulates his store, Milltown Hardware on North Main Street in Milltown, a half-mile from Villager's. Though he and his two brothers bought the business three years ago, Mr. Capella said they grew up in the community, where the store has been in the same location for more than 100 years.
"We sell service," he said before cutting the conversation short to wait on customers. "They can hire all the people they want, but they will never be able to duplicate it."
Interestingly, the Villager's here was carved from a Rickles, the hardware chain that went bankrupt, losing out to Home Depot. Channel was another casualty.
The 40,000-square-foot Villager's here, like the others on the drawing board, is smaller than the typical 120,000-square-foot Home Depot. And it has neither the look nor the incessant beeping of the fork lift trucks of the larger stores.
Huge items like lumber, large appliances and sheet rock for big home improvement jobs cannot be found. Instead, Villager's is meant to be a place where men can feel as comfortable picking out dinner plates as women can choosing power tools.
Convenience is the idea behind the concept, said Mr. Wittman, which could be rolled out nationally based on the performance of the test stores.
"We want to get customers in and out quickly," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Villager's in East Brunswick is the first hardware store opened by Home Depot in an effort to get a piece of the decorating and remodeling area not served by big box stores. (Photographs by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VILLAGER'S HARDWARE STORE; HOME DEPOT INC HOME DEPOT INC (95%); SCHRODER & CO INC (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: VILLAGER'S HARDWARE STORE; HOME DEPOT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST BRUNSWICK (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOME FURNISHINGS HOME CENTERS (90%); HARDWARE STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (76%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); INTERVIEWS (69%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (68%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (64%); LABOR FORCE (64%); BABY BOOMERS (62%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE ROBERT J WITTMAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



149 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Marla Nierenberg, Michael Hanan

 BODY:
Marla Sue Nierenberg, a daughter of Claire Nierenberg and Dr. Aaron Nierenberg of South Orange, N.J., is to be married today to Michael Scott Hanan, a son of Linda A. Hanan of Parsippany, N.J., and Nathaniel Hanan of Cliffside Park, N.J. Rabbi Jehiel Orenstein will perform the ceremony at Congregation Beth El in South Orange.
The bride, 31, is the director of education policy and new initiatives at the New York City Partnership, a business organization that is concerned with education, economic development issues and the building of affordable housing. She graduated from Rutgers University and received a master's degree in public administration at Columbia University. 
 Her father is a consulting psychologist for corporate personnel matters. Her mother teaches the fourth grade at the Solomon Schechter Day School of Essex and Union Counties, a private religious school in Cranford, N.J.
The bridegroom, 30, is an assistant corporation counsel for the City of New York. He graduated from American University and received his law degree cum laude from New York Law School. Until September, his mother was a senior project manager in the Mount Olive, N.J., office of Mars Inc., the candy manufacturer. His father is a business development consultant in Cliffside Park for the American Power Conversion Corporation, a manufacturer of backup power supply sources for computers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APCC (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (82%); SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: APC-MGE (82%); MARS INC (82%); AMERICAN POWER CONVERSION CORP (APC) BV (67%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); RELIGION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (70%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (70%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (68%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (65%); 

PERSON: NIERENBERG, MARLA SUE (MARLA SUE HANAN); HANAN, MICHAEL SCOTT MARLA SUE NIERENBERG (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



150 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 20; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: DESTINATIONS;
Farms Where Turkeys Are Raised to Be Gobbled

BYLINE: By JOSEPH D'AGNESE 

 BODY:
"HELP WANTED" reads the sign hanging outside Ronny Lee's farm market in Hightstown. This is the time of year when Mr. Lee anxiously seeks extra hands to help him perform an unsavory but necessary seasonal chore. "We hang the sign up, but we don't say what it's for," he said. "People come in and inquire, and then we'll break it to them."
Mr. Lee raises apples, peaches, pumpkins, corn and a host of other crops on his 54-acre farm in Mercer County. But his farm, built circa 1868 and his family's home for six generations, is famous for its Jersey-grown turkeys, fat, corn-fed gobblers that sell for $1.49 a pound, plucked, dressed and ready for the oven. Last year, Lee's Turkey Farm filled 2,000 orders for customers wanting freshly killed birds for Thanksgiving. Mr. Lee expects about the same number this year, but as always, he'll need a little help. 
 Meanwhile, Larison's Turkey Farm Inn and at Hinck's Turkey Farm, two of the state's other major turkey purveyors, are also gearing up for the gobbler season. Each caters to a slightly different market.
At Larison's, a 53-year-old restaurant ensconced in a farmhouse in Chester, patrons dine amid antiques, Tiffany lamps and stuffed-animal trophies. "We get a lot of comments from people who say they came here as a kids," said Louise Blaine, whose cousin, Arthur McGreevy, has owned Larison's for 27 years. "They like being able to bring their kids now."
You could just let Larison's do the cooking for your dinner and swing by to pick up the bird in time for the meal. A ready-to-serve turkey, fresh from the oven, is $3.50 a pound and comes with two quarts of gravy. But you must order a 28- to 30-pounder.
That kind of takeout meal -- not to mention sandwiches, salads and trimmings -- is the year-round specialty of Hinck's, a four-store, family-run chain, which has raised its own birds on a farm in Wall Township since 1938. Hinck's, too, roasts whole turkeys for customers' tables but limits the number of orders. (Dinner for 10 runs $61; for 15, $83, and for 20, $123.) "We're going to be careful about taking too many orders," said Bob Longo, whose father-in-law, Richard Hinck, started the business. "I could probably take more orders and make more money, but I don't want to stress the system."
No other holiday calls upon one's ability to pull together a flawless meal, and turkey houses feel the pressure, too. "It's such a traditional meal," Mr. Longo said. "Everyone knows how it's supposed to be." All those expectations come to roost at the dinner table. And that has dictated how much business Mr. Longo accepts on this day. "When a customer sits down with one of our birds, we want it to be perfect," he says. "Therein lies our future."
And as he says, the meal itself has ties to the past. Historians are far more certain that eels and venison were served at the first Thanksgiving in 1621 at the Plymouth Colony than that turkey made an appearance. Gov. William Bradford's official record of the holiday menu notes only that he sent out four men hunting and they returned home with numerous "fowles." What those were is anybody's guess.
The tom turkey we all grew up drawing in grade school is at once vain and wily. To attract a mate, he flares his bronze-brown feathers like a peacock. Stalked by hunters, he uses those same feathers to camouflage himself in the woods. "One of the common misconceptions is that these birds are stupid," Mr. Lee said. "They are not. Well, my guys are not as swift as wild turkeys. They think I'm their mama because I raised them since they were a day old. But hunters need to be pretty skillful to catch a wild turkey."
For Mr. Lee and his family, turkey season starts in June, when they begin to receive day-old poults, as the babies are called, from a hatchery in Ohio. Not one of those turkeys will ever resemble the one emblazoned on the bottom of your serving platter. "These all have white feathers," Janet Lee said. The Lees' birds occupy comfortable quarters in the family barn.
All summer long they gorge themselves on corn, but these animals are clever diners. "We feed them once a week," Mr. Lee said. "We literally put all their food for a week right in front of them. If you did that to a dog, he'd eat it all and make himself sick. But turkeys know enough to eat and give it a rest."
When people -- the Lees, their visitors or children on class trips -- to visit the barn, the curious turkeys flutter en masse to the front of their barn fence to greet them. And as they go about their work, the Lees hear their occasional telltale calls. Toms make the traditional gobble; hens utter a different sound. "It doesn't really sound like a gobble, gobble to me," Mrs. Lee says. "They make a barking sound like a seal."
The silence of the birds comes in the two weekends and the week before the holiday, when Mr. Lee and his $8-an-hour hired hands -- men with regular jobs as varied as accountants, jet mechanics and stock car designers -- go to work filling orders. Customers from Texas, Florida, Georgia and California have been known to arrange business trips to drop by the farm and pick up their birds.
The attraction is taste, which is enhanced by proper storage and handling. Freshly killed birds are sold only by special order, but many are also frozen. Once a bird meets its maker, its cleaned carcass is aged 48 hours in a refrigerator, then flash-frozen at minus-10 degrees Fahrenheit. Mr. Lee insists there is no difference between the two, provided his system is strictly followed. Supermarkets, he maintains, handle birds poorly, dumping them into freezers just barely under 32 degrees. This is why he does not sell to supermarkets. When a customer arrives asking for a fresh kill but has not placed an order, "I say: 'Try one of my frozen birds. I'll stake my reputation on it.' Once they try it, they're hooked."
Besides being a stickler for quality, Mr. Lee subscribes to an odd but convincing notion that turkeys can act as an economic indicator. "You can literally follow the economy by the average size of the turkeys people are ordering," he said. "I can tell if it's going to be a winning year for stores for Christmas shopping based on sizes. The average turkey was 16, 17 pounds in the Carter years, and when Reagan got in, they averaged 27, 28, 29 pounds. Bush started at 25 pounds and ended at 22 pounds. Clinton boosted it to 25, 26 pounds, but I think it fluctuates every time he screws up. You can tell the economy's going strong right now. Sizes are even bigger this year than last."
But optimism may well flee earnest home chefs when they get the turkey home. Every Lee bird leaves with cooking instructions and a phone number, which customers are not shy about using. "We might get calls at 6 A.M. asking, 'How do you cook this thing?' Mr. Lee said. "One year, someone called as they were sitting down to eat. 'It's really bony,' they said. 'I can't cut it.' I told 'em, 'Turn it over.' "
Then there's the zealous chef who remembers only that Mom used to get up early, stick the bird in the oven and cook it all day. They're a little fuzzy on details like cooking times and temperatures. When their relatively small 15-pounder is ready by 9 A.M., Mr. Lee, a one-man Thanksgiving hot line, fields the call: "I tell them, 'O.K., you want to keep it warm until dinner time, and you're going to need a lot of gravy.' "
It could be worse. They could be cooking the Pilgrims' traditional Thanksgiving eel.
Hinck's Turkey Farm (limited seating, bakery and takeout meals year-round). Four locations:
 1414 Atlantic Avenue, Wall Township, off Manasquan Circle; (732) 223-5622.
 1112 Highway 35, Ocean Township, one mile south of Asbury Circle; (732) 517-0055.
 45 Broad Street, Red Bank, across from White Street; (732) 933-9848.
 500 Bay Avenue, Point Pleasant, at Bay and Arnold Avenues; (732) 899-1973.
Larison's Turkey Farm Inn (restaurant seating for 260 people, Thanksgiving dinner specials, takeout dinners year-round, animal farm in rear for children, gift shop on premises), 2 West Main Street, Chester; (908) 879-5521.
Lee's Turkey Farm (fruits and vegetable, frozen turkeys sold year-round; special orders Thanksgiving and Christmas only), 201 Hickory Corner Road, Hightstown; (609) 448-0629.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronny Lee and his son, Dylan, among the residents at Lee's Turkey Farm in Hightstown, left. The population there will soon drop by about 2,000. Below, slicing fresh turkey for a sandwich at Hinck's Turkey Farm in Wall Township. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey highlighting Hightstown and Wall Township.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: LARISON'S TURKEY FARM INN (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING DAY; TURKEYS TURKEY PRODUCTION (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); ANIMALS (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); POULTRY (74%); BIRDS (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (63%); 

PERSON: D'AGNESE, JOSEPH RONNY LEE (93%); RICHARD HINCK (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



151 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES;
Even the Mayor Is Not Immune

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

DATELINE: IRVINGTON

 BODY:
Mayor Sara Bost had not repaired the wall where car thieves had slammed into her house on Eastern Parkway when it was riddled with bullets from a drive-by shooting.
She said last week she thought the shooting on Oct. 14 -- in which no one was hurt and no suspects were charged -- was in retaliation for her effort to crack down on the drug trade by putting more police officers on the streets at night. 
 But privately, some officers said the mayor's home -- up the street from an exit of the Garden State Parkway -- might simply have been a victim of the random gunfire that seems all too common these days in this crowded corner of Essex County.
Only days after the mayor's house was peppered with bullets, a 16-year-old mother of two was shot to death in her home on Highland Terrace. And last week, at Oak Street and 15th Avenue, a block from the mayor's house, a wreath was hung in memory of a young Irvington man who was shot to death there in July.
The recent violence highlights a much more gradual but no less dramatic decline in the fortunes of Irvington, a 2.8-square-mile township of 61,000 residents sandwiched roughly between Newark to the south and east and suburban Essex and Union counties to the north and west. Once a bedroom community of one- and two-family houses more akin to its suburban neighbors in affluence, racial and ethnic composition, Irvington over the last several decades has more closely reflected the deficits of its looming neighbor: violent crime, poverty, a decaying physical appearance.
"We're a suburban community with urban problems," said Mayor Bost, whose challenge since being elected in 1994 has been to reverse the trend.
As if the city cannot generate enough crime on its own, officials here said a crackdown on drugs in Newark had had the unforeseen consequence of pushing business over the boarder.
"On one side of 20th Street is Newark, on the other side of 20th Street is Irvington, so when they increase their effort, the drug dealers just come over," Mayor Bost said.
It was a gloomy Election Day at the Fire Department's Station No. 4 firehouse, an East Ward polling place and sturdy brick reminder of the township's past as a middle-class suburb of Newark. But inside, the brass polls were gone; across the street, two houses were boarded up.
The Rev. Theodore Backman, an associate minister at the Zion Baptist Church in Newark, had just cast his vote when he paused to list some of the problems that infest the town.
"One's a drug problem, one's a housing problem, the other's a rat problem," Rev. Backman said. "All these abandoned buildings, if they can't sell them, they should tear them down."
He lamented that Irvington had changed since he moved here 31 years ago from Newark. "People were more up to par," he said. "It was a more quiet area. It's become more transient. They're moving in, moving out. Plus, you've got landlords who don't live here, so people say, 'I don't care.' "
To help combat crime, there are plans to enroll about 40 cadets in the Essex County Police Academy in January and add them to the 172-member force in the spring with the help of $6 million federal grant.
For now, the town does what it can. "We're putting pressure on the dealers," Chief Steven Palamara of the Irvington Police Department said one recent day as a yellow front-end loader uprooted an illegal telephone from its concrete base; the phone was suspected of being used for drug deals.
Charles Henderson, 40, a firefighter for 13 years who grew up here, said it had pained him to move his family into a condominium in Basking Ridge five years ago. "I've got a son, and the education system is not what it should be," said Mr. Henderson. "In Basking Ridge, they still sing Christmas carols."
The departure of middle-class residents and the abandonment of property are factors in what Mayor Bost said is the local government's most fundamental problem: a low 88 percent tax collection rate that has forced the city to cut services and raise taxes for property owners who do pay.
It is that inadequate tax collection rate, Mayor Bost said, that forced her to declare the city in distress and to open its books to auditors to receive additional funds from the state's Aid to Distressed Cities Program. She said the city received $6.7 million toward a $61 million budget for the current fiscal year. Next week, the state will announce next year's aid for Irvington as well as for East Orange, Jersey City, Paterson and Camden.
To be sure, there are breaks in the gloom enveloping the township. The West Ward, for instance, is lined with well-kept homes owned and occupied by professionals. Just off Eastern Parkway, Maple Gardens is a private gated complex of spotless brick high-rise apartment buildings set off by flower beds and manicured lawns.
In addition, Mayor Bost said the city is condemning 140 properties to clear the land for residential development that will provide housing and tax revenue.
In terms of business, Springfield Avenue, which divides the 2.8-square mile city, is a bustling commercial strip, with hardly a vacant storefront in sight. The city's largest employers, including Revlon, Standard X-Ray and American Aluminum, have remained steadfast. Businesses participating in the state-chartered urban enterprise zone alone have invested more than $40 million and hired 316 residents since May 1996, said Lorelei Mottesse, director of the town's urban enterprise program.
Ms. Mottese said the city recently formed a district to assess retail businesses for improvement projects along Springfield Avenue. A similar program is being formed for industries, she said. The city has also received a $114,000 grant from the state Department of Environmental Protection to study redevelopment of its mildly contaminated industrial sites, called brownfields.
"Everyone is working very, very hard," said Ms. Mottese, a former mayor of Lincoln Park, "to bring Irvington back as the Newark suburb that people remember so fondly."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Bost of Irvington says her house was shot at in retaliation for a crackdown on drugs. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); The Fire Department's Station 4, the East Ward polling place, is a sturdy reminder of the town's middle-class past. But inside, the brass polls are gone. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey highlighting Irvington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (55%); IRVINGTON POLICE DEPARTMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRVINGTON POLICE DEPARTMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRVINGTON (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CRIME AND CRIMINALS SHOOTINGS (91%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBURBS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (79%); FIREARMS (78%); VEHICLE THEFT (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (76%); TRENDS (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (63%); RODENTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BOST, SARA (MAYOR); STRUNSKY, STEVE SARA BOST (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



152 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 12; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: POP MUSIC;
Rocking the Foundations Of American Life

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:
LITTLE STEVEN VAN ZANDT has always been "a band kind of guy." Having said that for the first time many years ago, he left his role as a guitarist in Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band, which many fans consider one of the best rock-and-roll bands in the world, to start a solo career in 1984.
That career has now brought him back to being a member of the hottest rock band to hit the stage in years while also releasing his fifth solo album this fall. 
 Some music industry watchers may consider the term release a misnomer when applied to the new album, "Born Again Savage," on his own Renegade Nation label, since the album has been available only through the artist's Web site (www.LittleSteven.com) since early September.
Until Mr. Van Zandt, 49, reconnected with his longtime friend when Mr. Springsteen recreated the E Street Band for a reunion and "rededication tour," he had done little musically that was in the public eye for a decade. He acknowledged that only his dedicated fans were aware of the Web site or the album until recently.
"Born Again Savage" is the last installment of a five-part concept Mr. Van Zandt conceived in 1982. He set out to explore the meaning of the individual, the family, the state, the economy and religion, all weighty topics to deal with in rock-and-roll songs. He did not shy away from the controversial side of any of his topics and produced two albums with decidedly anti-American government themes.
His current effort, which he described in a telephone interview from the road as the only pure rock-and-roll album he has ever made, is just as hard-hitting as the first four albums, both in musical style and in its judgment of American life, this time as it relates to religion. Musically, the album sounds like an update of the 1960's, complete with psychedelic overtones on some tracks, plus a sprinkling of punk and alternative rock to liven things up.
Mr. Van Zandt, who grew up in Middletown and now lives in Manhattan, was born into a Catholic family but grew up as a Baptist. He says he now accepts a mixture of many religions.
"I think people are a little lazy when it comes to religion," he said. "Religion should make you dig deep inside and think. Then you can make up your mind."
The songs on "Born Again Savage" deal with the hypocrisy that Mr. Van Zandt feels is rampant in religion, as well as many people's muddled and shallow thinking about heaven, hell and God. Although the album is considered a solo effort (Mr. Van Zandt plays all the numerous, hard-driving lead and rhythm guitar parts), he is backed by an old friend, Adam Clayton of U2, on bass and Jason Bonham, son of the Led Zeppelin drummer John Bonham, on drums.
On each of his albums, Mr. Van Zandt put together a talented but temporary backing band, which is different from the kind that defines a "band guy." That kind of band generates lifelong friendships, personal commitment and people who will always be there for one another -- like the E Street Band, which has claimed his loyalties from the early 1970's on.
Despite the talent he displays on his albums, Mr. Van Zandt has never had an easy relationship with recording companies. His fourth album, "Revolution," was released only in Europe and is now almost impossible to find. His newest effort is to be available in some independent record stores starting Nov. 30.
"We wanted to put it out there for the fans first," he said. "I've had the Web site since the beginning of the year, so it seemed like a good way to go. Record companies have a lot of reasons to not like me, in addition to the fact that I deal with controversial subjects. I'm old; I've never had a hit; many of my songs are not particularly radio-friendly, and true rock-and-roll is very much out of favor right now."
He has a sixth album of nonpolitical songs written but said he did not know when he might release it.
Mr. Van Zandt acknowledges that he is lucky to have the money and the fame from the E Street Band to allow him to market his own recording, something many independent artists do not have the option to do.
"But I think I've earned it, too," said Mr. Van Zandt, whose speaking voice is a far cry from the drawn-out, gravelly growl heard on his songs. "I've learned the harder you work, the luckier you are."
Much of the music on his albums is derived from the years of research he did on everything from the meaning of human existence to apartheid in South Africa to the involvement of the United States government in the politics of South American countries.
Once again, Mr. Van Zandt's celebrity status contributed to his ability to do things most people could not do. He spent much of the 1980's globe-trotting into any country that had a war or oppression going on, and when he felt he knew enough about a situation, he would take a stand and try to effect change.
"Sun City," a 1985 song that united more than 50 artists in a fight against apartheid, was one of the results of this personal obsession with world politics. It is also one of the few songs he has ever written that did not make it onto his or someone else's album because, he said, he writes only the songs he needs.
"Voice of America" and "Freedom, No Compromise," his second and third albums, were also direct outgrowths of his travels and include African and South American rhythms.
"Helping to end apartheid in South Africa was the most satisfying,' he said. "You very seldom have clear-cut victories like that. It is usually a process of chipping away at something."
The United Nations has twice honored Mr. Van Zandt for his humanitarian efforts. He is no longer caught up in a missionary zeal to politicize the world, as he says he once was, in part because he now has three careers going at the same time. In addition to the world tour with the E Street Band and his solo work, he plays Silvio Dante, a Jersey street guy and mob enforcer on HBO's critically acclaimed series "The Sopranos."
"Unfortunately," he said, "learning the truth about what is going on in the world, and even learning about oneself, is a luxury because it is a full-time job."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A little like the 60's: the cover of Little Steven Van Zandt's "Born Again Savage."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: E STREET BAND (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) POP & ROCK (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); RECORD RELEASES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC REVIEWS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); RECORD INDUSTRY (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); WEB SITES (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); 

PERSON: DEMASTERS, KAREN; VAN ZANDT, LITTLE STEVEN BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



153 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
GreenspanCranes His Neck Over Stock and Home Prices

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THE Federal Reserve, as everyone knows, is always trying to keep inflation down without sacrificing too much economic growth. The public debate that accompanies this process focuses on the behavior of the real economy. The booming stock market has stretched that focus, of course. But even so, the Fed's chairman, Alan Greenspan, is expressing greater concern lately about the dangers of a high stock market and rising home prices.
Far more than in the 1970's or 1980's, the wealth embedded in stocks and home ownership generates spending, and thus raises the odds that consumer demand will exceed the nation's supply of labor, materials and services. Inflation would then accelerate. Mr. Greenspan and his fellow policymakers have argued that case in the past. And now the chairman has underscored his concern in three speeches since mid-October. 
 "The frequency with which he makes this point means that his not-terribly-successful campaign to talk down the stock market continues," said Alan Blinder, a Princeton economist and a former Fed vice chairman. "He has not given up."
And if his jawboning doesn't work? If stock prices fail to decline from present levels, or even resume their climb? Would he want to raise rates at the next Fed policy meeting, on Nov. 16, fulfilling an expectation that unsettles the stock market?
Mr. Greenspan himself has probably not decided yet. The Fed tries to control inflation, or the threat of it, by raising interest rates. But the target is inflation itself, Fed officials insist, not any one of the contributors to it, like stock prices. In his recent speeches, Mr. Greenspan has not changed that message. But his remarks have heightened the profile of stock prices and home prices as potential contributors to inflation.
The economy once drove the stock market; now the opposite is true. Raising rates is one way to discourage stock buying and nullify the market's inflationary potential.
"There is no question that the stock market has become an important component" of our discussions, said Edward M. Kelley Jr., a Fed governor.
Mr. Greenspan's recent speeches outline these discussions, or at least his decisive contribution to them. New technologies, he argues, have made corporate management more efficient, and have raised the level of labor productivity, or the amount of goods, services and revenue that an average worker produces in an hour. All this adds to Corporate America's capacity to increase supply and thus satisfy rising demand.
Rising stock prices reflect this improvement, Mr. Greenspan says. They also reflect a view that stocks are less risky an investment than in the past and therefore worth more. Both factors, however, may be unsustainable. Stock prices, in short, may be unjustifiably high, in bubble territory.
A financial crisis could restore the old risk factor. A stock that now seems worth $10 may, a few months from now, be fairly valued at only $8 to a more nervous investor. The "equity premium" will have risen, or, as Mr. Greenspan puts it, "The key question is whether the recent decline in equity premiums is permanent or temporary." If the improvement is temporary, then stocks will eventually plunge in some crisis, damaging the economy and also creditors who have loaned tens of millions of dollars for the purchase of stocks.
THE productivity-growth trend presents another danger. While it certainly is at a higher level than in the recent past, that level cannot keep on rising. When the inevitable plateau comes, Mr. Greenspan warned in one of his speeches, then consumer demand, still driven by market wealth, "can accelerate so much that total demand could rise above even the productivity-augmented" greater supply of goods and services. As demand exceeds supply, shortages develop and prices rise.
A speech on Tuesday added home prices to the mix, but in a subordinate role to stocks. For every dollar of stock market gain, consumer outlays are lifted by 3 to 4 cents, Mr. Greenspan said, while higher home prices yield 5 cents for each dollar of gain. But only "about a sixth of the so-called wealth effect -- that is, the impact of capital gains on consumer spending -- stems from equity extracted from the sale of existing homes," he said, or the refinancing of mortgages. The rest comes from the huge, booming stock market.
The distinction adds to the stock market's importance in the Fed's deliberations. "Greenspan is not targeting the stock market," said William C. Dudley, a chief economist at Goldman, Sachs, "but he is saying the market is an increasingly important factor in setting interest rates."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the total value of United States stocks, plotted weekly, from 1996 through last Thursday. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKS AND BONDS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (61%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN; UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



154 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 4; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Blackmail Questions

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is investigating whether contractors working on downtown renewal projects in New Rochelle were pressured into hiring minority workers, city Detective Lieut. Robert DeLeno said.
The investigation follows the October indictments of Darnell King and Clifford Lester, the detective said. The United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York has charged that Mr. King of Mount Vernon and Mr. Lester of New Rochelle tried to extort money and jobs at construction sites at the New Rochelle Public Library Plaza parking lot and at a nearby park. The indictment also charges that the defendants conspired to extort money, including salary payments and protection payments, from the construction companies, using threats of damage to the companies' machines and a threat to the owner of one of the companies to accomplish their goals. 
 They apparently posed as members of a coalition seeking minority employment, authorities said. Both defendants face federal extortion charges that carry a penalty of up to 20 years in prison.
Judge Charles Brieant of Federal District Court in White Plains ordered the two held in the County Jail in Valhalla without bail while they await trial. A bail hearing was set for Friday. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION MOUNT VERNON NEON (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%); US ATTORNEY'S OFFICE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%); US ATTORNEY'S OFFICE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ROCHELLE (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); EXTORTION AND BLACKMAIL EXTORTION (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONSPIRACY (78%); RELIGION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); BAIL (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA CLIFFORD LESTER (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



155 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 46; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: ENDPAPER;
But Does It Work?

BYLINE: By ALAN B. KRUEGER; Alan B. Krueger, a former chief economist of the Department of Labor, is the Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University. He is writing a book entitled "Education Matters," to be published next year.

 BODY:
We run from one fad to another in education, from phonics to whole language and back to phonics, from subject-based to holistic learning, from curriculum-based to child-centered learning, from neighborhood to magnet to charter schools, from old to new to whole math, from English-only to bilingual education to language immersion.
With education growing as a voter concern, politicians have been quick to martial dueling remedies of their own. Republicans propose expanding charter schools and diverting funds from failing schools to finance vouchers. Democrats want to reduce class size and install computers in the classroom.
Indeed, how we teach our children shifts with the winds of philosophies and politics, leaving many observers dizzy and dismayed. 
 "The sad truth is," the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once lamented, "American schools, by and large, do not know how to teach. The ineffectiveness in teaching reading skills to many young people, whether white or black, poor or rich, strongly indicts foundations and government for not spending funds effectively to find out what different kinds of reading experiences are needed by youth with various learning styles at various points in their life."
Thirty years later, we still know little about the effectiveness of the tools in vogue: school vouchers, charter schools, school-to-work transition programs, summer school, year-round schooling, extended-day schooling, tracking, school uniforms and small schools.
Dr. King was correct to look to research to shed light on this darkness. But therein lies the problem: education suffers from a lack of scientifically sound studies.
The federal government spent $14 billion on space exploration last year, but less than $300 million on research to improve education. The primary research function of the Department of Education has been to administer tests and collect data. Less than 1 percent of its budget goes to research, with even less to conduct and evaluate studies.
Controlled experiments are especially rare. With insufficient funds and little tradition in experimental methods, most researchers rely only on observations in a handful of classrooms, without any concrete measure of results. Findings are weak or inconclusive.
Take, for example, the decades of seesawing over automatic promotion, the practice of passing students to the next grade so they can remain with their peers, whether or not they have mastered the material. The National Research Council and various studies have found that students who are held back, with little additional tutoring, continue their academic slide and are more likely to drop out. But those studies don't tell how those children would have fared if they had been promoted. They might have done even worse, justifying an end to the policy once and for all.
Or consider the nationwide rush to wire schools, despite the contradictory claims about the effectiveness of computer-based instruction. Should computers be a priority for inner-city fourth graders who read at the first-grade level? Or do they need more books and less software?
By randomly selecting some classrooms to receive computers and some to go without -- or some districts to practice automatic promotion and some to hold back failing students -- the effects could be measured under scientifically appropriate conditions. Random assignment ensures a balance in terms of variables like students' intelligence, motivation and parental involvement.
Such research is not unheard of. In the late 1980's, in a Tennessee study by a consortium of universities, 11,600 students in kindergarten through third grade were randomly assigned to regular-size classes of 22 to 25 students, to regular-size classes with teacher's aides or to smaller classes of 13 to 17 students. The results, gleaned from tracking the students for four years, showed that attending a smaller class increased average test scores. Students did not score higher when their classes had teacher's aides; and the teacher's experience and whether he or she had an advanced degree were also irrelevant to scores. Two recent follow-up studies showed that students assigned to smaller classes were more likely to graduate from high school and apply to college.
Although these results have made a case for reducing class size, leading to billions of dollars in additional federal, state and local spending, they shouldn't be the end of the story.
The largest improvement occurred the first year. The gain remained about the same for four years, while the students were in smaller classes, but the advantage shrank when they returned to regular classes. Think of it as that first aspirin that makes a headache go away; the second and third keep it at bay, and when you're off the aspirin, it comes back, but not as badly.
Further experiments might show that it isn't necessary to reduce class size for all grades -- an expensive proposition. One dose might suffice. And it may not be necessary to reduce them everywhere but to concentrate efforts in districts where the study found the most improvement -- areas with many low-income and minority students.
Another reform sweeping the country is just beginning to be tested. In 1997, Mathematica, a nonprofit research company in Princeton, N.J., conducted a lottery to randomly select 1,300 low-income public schoolchildren in New York City to receive vouchers to attend private elementary schools. After the first year, the students scored, on average, only 2 percentile points higher on math and reading tests than those who remained in public schools -- a difference that was just barely discernible statistically. By comparison, the gain for low-income Tennessee students after one year of small classes was 7 percentile points. The voucher experiment is to continue for another two years, and it will be interesting to see if the private school students ultimately show meaningful gains.
Naturally, experiments involving children raise a host of ethical dilemmas. Some fear that members of a control group are denied the advantages of a sound education. But without conducting a controlled study, it wouldn't be clear which students were harmed -- say, those who were given computers or those who weren't. And some students would be denied computers anyway, because they aren't being installed in all schools at once.
Enough progress has been made since Dr. King's day that we don't need to take radical, untested steps to try to improve education. American public schools have educated the most productive work force in the world, test scores are rising, and a higher proportion of students graduate from high school than ever. Educators should demand compelling evidence before making wholesale changes.
The Food and Drug Administration requires scientific testing before new drugs are prescribed. Why should we treat children's minds differently from their bodies? Just as that agency has created an impressive body of medical knowledge, the Education Department can lead the way to a greater understanding of what works and what doesn't by requiring experimental evaluations before federal dollars are thrown to the philosophical and political winds.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (73%); BUDGETS (70%); 

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN B MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



156 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 15; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 2364 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE & MONEY;
Financial Aid for the Bourgeoisie

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Andrew Ross Sorkin reports from London for the Business Day section of The Times.

 BODY:
CHRIS CORNISH has a solid annual income of $140,000 from his own software business. He and his wife, Sandra, own three cars, including a Jeep Grand Cherokee, and live in a four-bedroom house in New Canaan, Conn.
The Cornishes do not sound like naturals for financial aid. Nonetheless, their daughter Jordana, a sophomore at Vanderbilt University, got $22,150 in aid this semester in the form of a $13,950 grant and several low-interest loans. Their daughter Charissa, who took time off before entering her sophomore year at William and Mary College, received a $23,000 aid package, mostly in low-interest loans. 
 "We're thrilled we were able to get what we got and talk about it," said Sandra Cornish, referring to the stigma financial aid would once have had in her prosperous community. "I'm not sure it would always have been that way."
Financial aid is no longer strictly for paupers, at least not paupers by traditional standards. As the cost of higher education hovers between $20,000 and $30,000 a year at private institutions and $8,000 at public ones, even affluent families are finding their wallets too thin.
Aid officials say that some families receiving help this fall have incomes over $200,000, and some have assets that hit seven figures. About 14 percent of students from families with incomes of $100,000 or more received federal aid in the 1995-96 school year, according to the Department of Education's latest accounting. For those attending private colleges or universities, the figure was 45 percent.
"We have more people at higher levels of income getting financial aid," said Thomas C. Keane, the director of financial aid and student employment at Cornell University, where 508 families with incomes over $100,000, 79 of them earning more than $150,000, received need-based grants last year. At Princeton University, 126 freshmen were eligible last year despite household incomes in excess of $105,000.
"The costs are going up faster than families' income is going up," Mr. Keane said. "Now there are programs so that anybody can get money, at the very least through a loan."
Administrators advise that even families with seemingly little need should apply, since they may qualify for some help. Special considerations might include many dependents, more than one child in college, certain large debts or high medical expenses. Aid officers know that tending to a sick or an elderly parent can drain resources.
The most salient feature of the Cornishes' application was the fact that they support five young children in addition to their two college-age daughters; they also have a growing business with debt. Still, the Cornishes paid $1,400 for the services of a consultant to help both daughters enhance their financial aid eligibility as well as find the best deals.
Many private colleges are sweetening their financial aid packages not only because their endowments are swelling in a boom economy, but also to attract students with the grades, demographic profiles or special skills to balance their student bodies.
"There are so many ways to be eligible for aid these days," said Monique Thomas, the founder of Collegiate Financial Aid Services in Darien, Conn. She believes that qualifying for aid is as much an art as it is a science -- a philosophy that has spawned an industry of financial aid helpmates and, for those seeking lower sticker prices, shelves of self-help books.
"I go through a 72-point system, where I look through tax returns and examine income and assets," said Ms. Thomas, who recently helped a family with three children in college obtain about $55,000 a year in mostly grants and scholarships, despite their having assets close to $500,000.
Kalman A. Chany, the founder and president of Campus Consultants, in New York City, says that many potentially eligible families don't apply. "There are a significant number of households that could be eligible but just don't bother, or they're too intimidated by the process and throw up their hands in disgust," he said.
Just as the Internal Revenue Service allows certain deductions to be taken to lower one's tax bite, there are legal ways to lower a family's tuition bill by increasing its eligibility for financial aid. And the arguments for using loopholes are similar in both circumstances. "You should be able to get what you're entitled to," Mr. Chany insisted. "Parents don't create the formulas."
Saving for the long term, of course, is the best way to ensure that there will be enough money to pay for college.
"A poor family without the means to pay for college will find concerned financial aid officers ready to look in every corner of their coffers to come up with the aid necessary to send that family's child to college," writes Mr. Chany in his Princeton Review guide, "Paying for College Without Going Broke," whose year 2000 edition came out last month. Not so, he adds, for well-to-do families just looking for the college to pick up the bill. "An honest attempt to save money, and a willingness to make sacrifices, can make a large impression," he writes.
With that in mind, here are short-term strategies that can maximize a family's chances for aid.
 
The ABC's
Aid packages usually consist of a combination of grants, work-study programs and, most often, low-interest loans. The college's financial aid officers, who have considerable discretion in allotting aid, can arrange a package using the institution's own money and funds from numerous state and federal programs.
Perhaps the most well-known federal grant is the Pell, a gift of up to $3,125 a year per student. But households with incomes over $40,000 rarely qualify. The Perkins loan, which at 5 percent currently carries the lowest interest rate of any higher education loan, is also designed for the most needy.
For stretched middle- and upper-income families, the most accessible federal loan is the Stafford. This loan is either subsidized or unsubsidized. Families that can demonstrate need and qualify for the former don't pay interest while the student is in college. The unsubsidized version is available to virtually anyone, no matter what the household income. Because of the low interest rate, which cannot go above 8.25 percent, some families have even been known to take the loan just to invest the money. (The current rate is 6.32 percent while the student is enrolled, after which it rises slightly.)
Colleges' methods for determining a family's need can be subjective and confusing, especially for institutions doling out their own money. "There are a lot of different ways to view a family's income and assets," Mr. Keane conceded. Even if you do not receive government money, you may be eligible for thousands of dollars in grants from the school itself.
The formulas that are used to ascertain what is called the Expected Family Contribution, or E.F.C., are indeed long, complicated exercises. Applicants can get help with the federal formula at www.ifap.ed.gov, the Department of Education's Web site for financial aid professionals.
Interactive calculators for both the federal formula and the Institutional Methodology, a different formula used by many private colleges and some state universities, are available at www.collegeboard.org.
The formulas consider parent and student incomes and assets, as well as the number of dependents and other family circumstances. Financial aid officers at a student's chosen college compute the cost of attendance, including tuition and fees, room and board and allowances for books, transportation and personal expenses. That number, minus the E.F.C., is a family's need -- the amount of money the student is eligible to receive from the government and the college.
Say, for example, that a family of four has an annual household income of $85,000. Not considering assets or any other circumstances, such a family might be expected to contribute $13,508 toward a child's education, which would amount to 15.9 percent of its gross annual income. At a state university, $13,508 could cover the entire cost for a year. At a private university, it might cover only half the year's tuition. But the college could arrange a package of government grants and loans or its own aid to cover the balance.
In this situation, Mr. Chany writes, "Depending on how badly the college wants the student, parents won't pay a penny more for an exclusive private college than they would for a state school." In some cases, they may even pay less, he adds.
But families must first fit their financial picture into the formula.
"The E.F.C. is the key number," said Greg Phillips, the president of Phillips Financial Aid Services, a financial aid consulting company in Pittsburgh. "That's where income and asset planning comes into play to get that number as low as you can get it."
 
E-Z Aid
Juggling assets and income can be risky, so it's important to talk to an accountant before making any big changes.
In addition, "the process has to start early, not in December of a child's senior year when these high schools have their Financial Aid Nights," Ms. Thomas said. "It's just too late."
The reason is that eligibility for aid is based on the family's income from the tax year that began in January of the student's junior year. By December, parents will want to have minimized their discretionary income for that year's tax return by, say, avoiding capital gains, profits on stock sales or premature withdrawals from I.R.A.'s.
Consultants also tell families with modest incomes and substantial assets to file the short forms 1040A or 1040EZ, if they can. When adjusted gross income falls below $50,000, assets are not considered, no matter what their worth, when the data on the federal form, the Free Application for Federal Aid, is analyzed.
Mr. Phillips, for instance, has clients with more than $1.5 million in assets but a household income of $40,000. Because they could file a 1040A, the clients ended up with a Pell grant and a Perkins loan.
"That's crazy!" Mr. Keane said. "With a million dollars in assets, it is likely they would not have received any need-based aid from Cornell. That's why we use Profile."
He was referring to the College Scholarship Service's Profile form, which many private colleges require in addition to the federal application and sometimes their own forms. Profile is far more inquisitive, demanding more information on assets and income.
But Mr. Keane adds that he would still have been required to provide government money to Mr. Phillips's clients.
"We're not allowed to deny somebody money when they prove eligibility through the federal formula," he said.
 
Whose Money Is It, Anyway?
Accountants often suggest that parents put money in children's names because of the many tax benefits while the child is growing up. But that move works against applicants who are filing for aid. That's because in determining E.F.C., administrators using the federal formula figure that the student will pay 35 percent of his or her assets (25 percent according to the Institutional Methodology), and parents 5.65 percent of theirs (5 percent in the Institutional Methodology).
"Do I think they should move that money back into the parents' name before the kid applies for college?" Mr. Keane said. "Yeah, I do.
"It really isn't the kids' money," he added. "The students never earned that money. But if a parent is putting money away for their child, taking advantage of the tax law while the child is growing up, they should be able to move that money back to where it benefits them most for financial aid."
 
If It's a Very Good Year
Families can have an exceptional financial year.
Nice as that is, it distorts the picture when it comes to aid. If a given year's income is extraordinary, consultants recommend writing a letter of explanation to the college's financial aid office, and including a tax return from the previous year to demonstrate the point.
"You've got to hit them over the head with your special circumstance," Mr. Chany said. "You have to be short and brief, because they are overworked. Tell them your income just went up, or it's about to go way down. You have to give them real numbers."
Financial aid officers sympathize with big medical expenses. And if a special circumstance exists -- say, the parents are divorced, and the father has stopped making his child-support payments -- officers can consider that, too.
 
Grades vs. Need
No matter what the financial situation, the key to getting aid is being a good student.
"Grades, SAT's, the quality of the student and what they bring to the table is going to make a difference," Ms. Thomas said. "The admissions office is going to be a heck of a lot more generous with a kid who has done really well than with Johnny over there, who is just a C student, even though need-for-need, they may be the same."
 
Need Help?
Higher education may be hopelessly expensive, but there's at least one source of aid that's often free: advice. The SLM Holding Corporation, better known as Sallie Mae, the nation's largest financer of student loans, offers the following options for angst-filled (and debt-ridden) parents.
l College Answer Service, (800) 891-4599. Financial-aid counselors answer questions and provide details on grants, loans, scholarships, work-study programs and application procedures. You can also obtain a free guide, "Paying for College."
l Parent Answer Service, (800) 891-1410. Counselors discuss the federal Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students (PLUS); you can determine your eligibility and apply over the telephone.
l The Web site www.salliemae.com offers information on financial aid as well as online loan applications, loan tips, a glossary of terms and interactive calculators to estimate Expected Family Contribution.
l If all else fails, the commercial Web site www.ECollegebid.org gives parents a chance to bid for a tuition they're willing to pay. Participating colleges then decide if they're willing to accept the bid. The site, which becomes active this month, works much like Priceline.com, the electronic discount-travel service.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by David Bergstein)
 
Graph: "Show Them the Money"
Most private colleges and some state universities use the Institutional Methodology formula to determine the Expected Family Contribution, the amount a family is expected to pay toward college costs, with financial-aid packages usually making up the balance. Here are approximate E.F.C.'s for a family of four for the 2000-2001 academic year, according to income and assets. (The more children you have, the lower the contribution.)
 
Households with annual incomes of . . .
$50,000
 . . . and with assets of: $50,000 -- $3,843
$100,000
 . . . and with assets of: $50,000 -- $14,685
$150,000
 . . . and with assets of: $50,000 -- $27,239
$200,000
 . . . and with assets of: $50,000 -- $40,619
$250,000
 . . . and with assets of: $50,000 -- $53,384
 
Households with annual incomes of . . .
$50,000
 . . . and with assets of: $100,000 -- $5,904
$100,000
 . . . and with assets of: $100,000 -- $16,270
$150,000
 . . . and with assets of: $100,000 -- $28,644
$200,000
 . . . and with assets of: $100,000 -- $42,025
$250,000
 . . . and with assets of: $100,000 -- $54,790
 
Households with annual incomes of . . .
$50,000
 . . . and with assets of: $150,000 -- $8,404
$100,000
 . . . and with assets of: $150,000 -- $18,728
$150,000
 . . . and with assets of: $150,000 -- $31,058
$200,000
 . . . and with assets of: $150,000 -- $44,438
$250,000
 . . . and with assets of: $150,000 -- $57,203
 
Households with annual incomes of . . .
$50,000
 . . . and with assets of: $250,000 -- $13,404
$100,000
 . . . and with assets of: $250,000 -- $23,728
$150,000
 . . . and with assets of: $250,000 -- $36,058
$200,000
 . . . and with assets of: $250,000 -- $49,438
$250,000
 . . . and with assets of: $250,000 -- $62,203
 
NOTE: Contributions calculated use the following parameters: both parents are employed, no unusual circumstances, standard deductions on U.S. income tax, joint 1040 tax return filed, one undergraduate child enrolled in college, and one sibling, who is 15.
 
(Source: The College Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (59%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (59%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (57%); WILLIAM & MARY COLLEGE (57%); WILLIAM & MARY COLLEGE (57%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (59%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (59%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (57%); WILLIAM & MARY COLLEGE (57%); WILLIAM & MARY COLLEGE (57%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; STUDENT LOANS; INCOME; PERSONAL FINANCES STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); FAMILY (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CHILDREN (72%); 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS KALMAN A CHANY (63%); THOMAS C KEANE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



157 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Bidding War To Uncork Drug Stocks

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
REDD FOXX, the comedian, once observed that health nuts were going to feel stupid someday, lying in the hospital dying of nothing.
It is difficult to call a business with more than $130 billion in sales worldwide dead, but until the end of September drug stocks did not have much life: as measured by the Amex Pharmaceuticals Index, from the start of the year through Sept. 29 the group was down more than 14 percent. The stocks started to wake up in October. Last week, investors became even more interested when Pfizer made an $82.4 billion bid for Warner-Lambert, casting doubt on Warner's friendly merger agreement, worth more than $70 billion, with American Home Products. 
 Until recently, Larry N. Feinberg, managing partner of Oracle Investment Management, which manages about $600 million in hedge funds and private equity exclusively in health care companies, was not buying drug stocks. He is now. Mr. Feinberg took some time last week to talk about the industry's problems and prospects. Here are excerpts from the conversation.
 
Q. In the mid-1990's drug stocks were crushed by fears about the Clinton health plan and then roared back. What has ailed them this year?
 
A. Drug stocks have lagged this year because of economics, politics and the Internet.
From an economic point of view, fears of rising inflation have not helped, because if interest rates are backing up, then price-earnings multiples are suspect.
A political issue is the biggest cloud over the industry, and one of the keys there is the Medicare prescription drug benefit. There is a big political push to get the elderly covered for prescription drugs. This fear of government regulation implies possible price controls by the government.
The Internet has caused concerns about drug utilization and benefit management. Historically, the thing that has been really striking about the health care industry is the lack of information flow.
Now we are entering a period where a number of companies are hooking up health information systems with doctors. The net impact of that is that drug utilization will get controlled more, and cheaper drugs, where applicable, will be used more often.
 
Q. It seems these are real concerns. Yet you are positive on drug stocks. Why?
 
A. We are past the bottom and are beginning to turn up. For demographic and technological reasons, the health care industry will be the world's great growth industry.
I believe we have entered a tremendous new product cycle. At the moment we have new drug categories like osteoporosis, breakthrough drugs for certain cancers. The first two flu drugs have just been approved. These are huge new markets that are opening up, and we are just at the tip of the iceberg.
The next big wave will be based on genomics, as we get more answers to what genes turn on and off and why that happens. That will lead to customized drug therapy.
Even if the effort to curb costs intensifies, expensive drugs are not going to go away. If they are better than generics, paying for them is still better than putting people in the hospital.
 
Q. What is your sense of the struggle for Warner-Lambert?
 
A. Both Pfizer and American Home Products are good fits with Warner-Lambert.
American Home Products has a great drug pipeline. Warner-Lambert doesn't have much of a pipeline, but it has good products. The Pfizer bid, which will be hard for American Home Products to match, is more of a strategic combination in that it gives Pfizer a better position in the cardiovascular business.
But the real key to this is that this is the trigger that will open the floodgate to further mergers.
 
Q. Which companies are more likely to combine than others?
 
A. Anybody who wants to get bigger is a candidate, so you could include everybody in the industry. There are tremendous cost savings to be realized.
The most obvious merger candidates are those that need help, a list that includes Novartis, SmithKline Beecham and Pharmacia Upjohn. I wouldn't put it past Merck to do a deal. In the next five years there will be fewer, bigger players.
 
Q. So which stocks do you like?
 
A. We own Bristol-Myers Squibb, which has a great drug pipeline, American Home Products and biotechnology companies like Amgen, which is selling at a multiple comparable to the drug companies but is spending twice as much on research and development.
Aside from the drug companies, the big opportunity for investors is business-to-business commerce in health care.
Companies in this area include Medical Manager, CareInsite, which has the former management team from Medco Containment; Healtheon; and IDX Corporation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Feinberg

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (91%); PFE (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (91%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PFIZER INC (91%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORACLE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PHARMACOGENOMICS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (75%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (74%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); MERGERS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (72%); OSTEOPOROSIS (72%); PERSONALIZED MEDICINE (72%); MEDICARE (71%); BONDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); INFLATION (70%); APPROVALS (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); GENOMICS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); INFLUENZA (50%); 

PERSON: FEINBERG, LARRY N; GILPIN, KENNETH N JOSEPH C PAPA (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



158 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES;
Dividends Are Fading As Market Signals, Too

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT 

 BODY:
OF all the market-timing models that failed to anticipate the extraordinary stock bull market of this decade, the most spectacular failure has been the one that is based on dividend yields.
According to that model, the stock market is overvalued whenever the average dividend yield of stocks drops to historically low levels. Between 1871 and 1990, the stock market was in danger whenever its dividend yield dropped to below 3 percent; stocks lost 3.2 percent, on average, over the subsequent year. 
 Often, such a yield portended a bear market. At the market top before the bear market of 1973-74, for example, the dividend yield of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was at 2.7 percent, then a record low.
But the signal hasn't worked in the 1990's. The S. & P. 500 last traded at a 3 percent dividend yield in October 1992, when the index itself was around 420. As of Friday, with the S.& P. 500 more than three times as high, its dividend yield is near its record low of 1.18 percent. At that rate, the S. & P. 500 would have to decline by more than half just to bring it back to the level that has signaled a major market top.
Clues to the model's failure are seen in a new study that examines the role of dividends in the United States economy all the way back to 1926. The study, by two finance professors -- Eugene F. Fama of the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business and Kenneth R. French of M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management -- concludes that the role of dividends has diminished.
Today, for example, just 20.7 percent of all publicly traded American companies even pay a dividend. As recently as 1978, that share was 66.5 percent. And even during the Depression, the number never dropped below 33 percent.
The professors discovered, first of all, that the universe of publicly-traded companies has changed significantly over the years. Relatively more and more companies are either unprofitable or so in need of cash that they must invest their earnings into their businesses. Often such companies are relatively young and have small market capitalizations. This class of companies rarely pays dividends, the professors said, and has seldom done so in the past.
CONSIDER the growing proportion of American public companies that are unprofitable. In any given year before 1980, that figure was rarely above 10 percent. At the end of 1997, however, it was more than 30 percent.
Even when small-cap companies have earnings, however, they rarely pay dividends. That is because they are often growing so fast that it makes far more sense to put their cash to work themselves. From 1963 until 1997, according to the study, the assets of companies that have never paid a dividend have grown 15.7 percent a year, on average, versus 8.7 percent for dividend-paying companies.
According to the professors, only about half the decline in the percentage of companies that pay dividends can be explained by the increased prevalence of this class of companies that are often fast-growing, small-cap or both. They attribute the other half of the decline to an increasing reluctance to pay dividends on the part of established, profitable and often large-cap companies -- a class that has made payouts in the past.
Many Wall Street analysts believe that this parsimony has been caused by the increasing popularity -- since the mid-1980's -- of companies' share repurchase programs. These stock buybacks are really just another way for management to distribute profits to shareholders..
But Professors Fama and French dismiss that view. They found that buyback plans have, almost exclusively, been the province of dividend-paying large-cap companies.
Furthermore, such companies are distributing a greater percentage of their earnings as dividends today than they were before repurchase programs became so popular. So share buybacks cannot explain why fewer large-cap companies are paying dividends today than in the past.
Regardless of the causes, it is clear that dividends don't play the role they used to in corporate America.
Of course, that reduced relevance doesn't mean that stocks aren't overvalued. But if a bear market does begin from today's levels, it won't be because the market's dividend yield is too low.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the percentage of companies that pay dividends from the 1940's through 1998.
(Source: Disappearing Dividends: Changing Firm Characteristics or Increased Reluctance to Pay?, by Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (54%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS DIVIDENDS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK KENNETH R FRENCH (62%); EUGENE F FAMA (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



159 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
In Convertibles, a Path To Technology Stocks

BYLINE: By JOANNE LEGOMSKY 

 BODY:
TECHNOLOGY has been the undisputed champ of the bull market. But investors seeking a slightly less risky way to jump into the sector may want to consider convertible bonds.
Technology companies have long tapped investor enthusiasm by issuing convertibles and preferred stock to finance the next stage of their growth. Of the $26 billion of convertibles issued year to date, more than 30 percent were from technology companies, according to the Value Line Convertible Survey. 
 Technology convertibles make up 41 percent of the market value of the Merrill Lynch All U.S. Convertibles Index, versus 26 percent one year ago. (Even a relatively technology-heavy index like the Standard & Poor's 500 has a technology weighting of just 24 percent.) The Merrill index has returned 17.8 percent so far this year, nearly keeping pace with the 19.0 percent return of the underlying stocks, according to Preston Harrington III, a convertible bond strategist at Merrill Lynch.
Mr. Harrington says technology convertibles may be an attractive alternative for investors who worry about the high valuations of the sector's stocks. "It's a more conservative way for investors to play technology," he said.
Convertibles are hybrid securities that can be exchanged for a specific number of shares in the issuer's underlying common stock. They offer much of the upside of a stock if prices are rising -- investors can sell the appreciated bond or convert it to stock. At the same time, the fixed interest rate paid on them provides some of the protection of a bond.
The hook for investors is that a fairly priced convertible usually rises more on an increase in the price of the underlying stock than it falls if the shares tumble.
"There is no question investors can sometimes do better with a tech convert" than with the common stock of the same issuer, said Michael Shamosh, bond strategist at Tucker Anthony. But, he added, there is still plenty of risk.
Hedge funds, for example, often profit by selling short the shares of technology companies, betting that they will decline, while holding the convertibles, so they can profit from a steeper decline in the stock while collecting the convertible's yield. That creates volatility when the hedge funds unwind the positions.
On their own, however, individual investors face big hurdles in buying convertibles, which are often rated below investment grade. Experts say sophisticated skills are needed to analyze the complex risks of both the stock and the bond. And because most of the technology convertibles are issued on an unregistered basis, only institutions can buy them initially. Individuals cannot trade the bonds until they are registered, usually 90 to 180 days later.
Convertible funds offer one solution. These have returned 12.6 percent a year to date through October, versus 10.2 percent for the average United States diversified fund, according to Lipper Inc., the research firm.
A clutch of such funds had heavy investments in technology as of Sept. 30. The $70 million Value Line Convertible fund had a 40 percent technology weighting, which includes the bonds of Internet companies like Doubleclick, Mindspring Enterprises and CNET. It has an average credit quality of BB.
The $47.4 million TCW Galileo Convertible Securities fund, with 37 percent of its assets in technology, has stakes in STMicroelectronics, Intel and Conexant Systems, and has an average credit quality of BBB-, higher than the average convertible fund.
The $449 million Van Kampen Harbor fund, with 36 percent of its holdings in technology, holds big positions in Comverse Technology and Conextant. Its average credit rating is BB+.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the weekly closes of Merrill Lynch's all U.S. Convertibles index, total return value, since January 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (91%); MER (NYSE) (91%); 8675 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); LIPPER INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMMON STOCK (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (77%); CONSERVATISM (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: LEGOMSKY, JOANNE PRESTON HARRINGTON III (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



160 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH -- EUGENE E. PERONI JR.;
John Nuveen & Company

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
WHO'S in charge of the stock market? The little guy, says Eugene E. Peroni Jr., director of equity research for defined portfolios at John Nuveen & Company, the money management firm based in Chicago.
"Institutional investors dominate the market only in terms of trading volume," Mr. Peroni said from his office in Radnor, Pa. "The turning points in the market, the more reliable and sustainable moves, are led by individual investors." 
 And so he scans the ticker tape, looking for heavy and consistent buying in particular stocks by investors trading in relatively small lots of 10,000 shares or less, almost your average mom and pop.
Following small investors is key to Mr. Peroni's craft. Each year since 1995, he has picked 10 stocks to be packaged into a unit investment trust, or U.I.T., an unmanaged portfolio of securities that are held for a set period -- 13 months. (Investors usually have the chance to roll over their investment into a new U.I.T. the following year.)
Previously, Mr. Peroni's U.I.T.'s were available only to clients of Janney Montgomery Scott, a brokerage firm in Philadelphia where he was director of technical research. In May, he joined Nuveen, and on June 15 he started the $40 million Peroni Growth Portfolio: Summer Series 1999, which holds 20 stocks. Starting on Dec. 6, Nuveen will offer a U.I.T. called the Peroni Top 10 Picks Portfolio: 2000, consisting of 10 stocks.
At Janney Montgomery, Mr. Peroni's 10-stock portfolios combined to produce an impressive record, returning 24.7 percent a year before commissions and fees, on average, for the 10 years through December 1998, compared with 16.6 percent for the Dow Jones industrial average. Through Oct. 29, the $138 million Janney Montgomery Peroni Top 10 Growth Trust 1999 portfolio, which started Dec. 4, 1998, returned 35.6 percent, versus 19.0 percent for the Dow Jones index, Nuveen said.
U.I.T. investors can buy shares only during a brief window (through January, for example, for the Peroni Top 10 Picks portfolio to be offered next month). The portfolio almost never changes over the life of the U.I.T.
Investors pay a 2.95 percent commission to their brokers the first year and 1.95 percent if they decide to roll it over -- so this is not a low-cost alternative to a mutual fund. The new Nuveen U.I.T., which has a minimum investment of $1,000, also carries expenses of 0.20 percent.
Mr. Peroni's stock-picking system was designed by his father, Eugene E. Peroni Sr., 89, an architect who became PaineWebber's head of technical research in 1971.
The younger Mr. Peroni, who describes his investing style as moderately aggressive, looks for mid- or large-capitalization growth stocks that have been trading for at least two years.
Mr. Peroni doesn't have much use for computers.
"We rely on the tools that were available at the turn of the century," he said: "ticker tape, a quote machine and point-and-figure graphs, which are drawn by hand."
The point-and-figure charts illustrate a stock's price movements of $1 or more.
"The graphs give us a good overall look at pricing patterns," Mr. Peroni said, "and let us quickly identify departures from a stock's historical price trend."
MR. PERONI ignores trades of 10,000 shares or more, which are usually institutional. Why? "We find that institutional traders react to news, like rumors or changes in analysts' direction," he said. "Individual investors are intuitive and anticipate positive change.
"I'm not talking about the CNBC couch potato or the day traders," he said, but rather "astute individuals who may have spent their careers at a particular company and know the business, the technology or the service intimately."
Hence the ticker tape, which shows all trades, rather than computer programs that typically highlight only high-volume trades. Patterns are sometimes visible in a day, but typically take several weeks to identify, he added. He takes special note of companies when he is satisfied that individual investors are making a strong commitment to the stock. Institutions follow sooner or later, Mr. Peroni says.
He whittles his list to 40 or 50 stocks by focusing on strong sectors where investors are buying steadily, typically choosing market leaders in each group. Currently, he likes technology, drug and telecommunications stocks.
By design, his 10-stock list generally includes just three or four industry groups. "For many years, the market has been driven by a few key industries and stocks," he explained.
Mr. Peroni gives minor consideration to nontechnical factors, including company news, economic events and Nuveen research reports. And he pays no attention to typical valuation measures like price-to-earnings ratios or book value.
One of his favorite stocks is Solectron, in Milpitas, Calif., a contract manufacturer of high-technology products like computer motherboards. Solectron is in his 1999 Janney Montgomery U.I.T. and the Nuveen summer U.I.T.
"The question is whether we're moving to a new generation of chips that would require retooling of equipment companies," Mr. Peroni said.
The stock could advance, he said, not only because of rising earnings expectations but because of the prospects for technological advances. Shares closed at $81.50 on Friday.
He also likes Commscope, a Hickory, N.C., manufacturer of cable that transfers data and voice more efficiently than copper lines. The cable is used in telecommunications links and in computer line hookups. Mr. Peroni said the stock, which is in the Nuveen summer U.I.T., had consistently outperformed earnings expectations. It closed at $42.50 last week.
ANOTHER favorite is Texas Instruments, which finished last week at $93.4375. He is bullish on the semicondutor business in general, but he also likes the company for its pursuit of higher-growth areas of the sector.
"The company has refocused away from calculators and semiconductor chips, and focuses on digital signal processing as a way to put data into digital format," he said. Texas Instruments is in the summer U.I.T.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eugene E. Peroni Jr., who builds unit investment trusts at John Nuveen & Company, works on a collection of shortwave radios in his spare time. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NUVEEN, JOHN, & CO DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUVEEN, JOHN, & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EQUITY RESEARCH (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BONDS (78%); UNIT TRUSTS (77%); 

PERSON: PERONI, EUGENE E JR; GOULD, CAROLE EUGENE E PERONI JR (96%); MONTGOMERY PERONI TOP (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



161 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: A U.S. Study Of Embassies Says Updating Is Urgent Need

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 6

 BODY:
American embassies are "perilously close to the point of system failure" because of antiquated buildings and grossly inefficient computer networks, an independent commission reported on Friday.
Few American diplomats can send e-mail messages to each other, even within the same embassy, but continue to depend on the slow and hierarchical "cable culture" of traditional diplomacy, said the independent commission, the Overseas Presence Advisory Panel. 
 In some embassies, including those in Ukraine and Angola, embassy staff members work in trailers or freight containers because spending on buildings has not kept pace with changing demands and staff levels, the panel said.
The solution is to spend at least $200 million on information technology, to rethink the size and shape of embassies, to perform some administrative functions regionally or in Washington and to set up a new corporation to manage government property abroad, the report added.
"The status quo is not acceptable," Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said of the report. "We need more resources to support our people, operations and programs. These are investments that will pay large dividends rapidly."
The commission also backed an earlier recommendation that the United States spend about $1.3 billion a year for the next 10 years to protect embassies from attack.
Dr. Albright set up the panel in April, partly in response to the bombings in August 1998 at the embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
The panel also said staff cuts at embassies could lead to significant savings. "We should have a leaner, more agile, better functioning, better trained force representing the 30 agencies who do work overseas," the panel's chairman, Lewis Kaden, a New York corporate lawyer, said at a news conference on Friday.
The United States has more than 14,000 citizens stationed overseas in 252 diplomatic posts in 160 countries. The State Department employs about 38 percent of them, followed by the Pentagon (37 percent) and the Agency for International Development and the Justice Department (6 percent each). 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); UKRAINE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); UKRAINE (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (95%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); BOMBINGS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: MADELEINE K ALBRIGHT (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



162 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3059 words

HEADLINE: Can G.M. Return to the Passing Lane?

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
A JOKE making the rounds of car dealers offers this solution to America's drug problem: "Turn the marketing over to G.M. and demand will go away."
The chief executive of one auto maker said he no longer bothered to pay attention to G.M. And John P. Wolkonowicz, an industry consultant at Buhlin Group, summed it up this way: "They've fallen and they can't get up." 
 General Motors may be the world's biggest company, and it may be enjoying record sales and profits, but it still doesn't get much respect.
Just last week, G.M. took the first step toward an expected management reshuffling that would be its biggest in seven years. But while its current leaders can point proudly to vast improvements in the balance sheet, there are doubts throughout the industry about whether a new team can solve the company's giant, persistent problem: a failure to plug a steady leak in market share. If the economy sours, the company -- as well as its work force -- faces enormous problems.
It is bad enough now. In October, G.M.'s market share, 28 percent, was smaller than the combined share of Asian auto makers, 28.4 percent. In some ways, that marks the end of an era. While G.M.'s market power has been eroding for three decades, sinking below the Asians was inconceivable a generation ago.
Decades ago, when G.M. built more than half the cars on the road, when designers expressed America's postwar exuberance with soaring tail fins, when marketers captured the imagination of millions by telling them to "see the U.S.A. in your Chevrolet," G.M. was held in awe. But for years it has built take-no-chances vehicles, usually a step behind the competition. G.M.'s design triumphs are now found not in garages but in museums.
"The company continues to run behind the curve," said Gerald C. Meyers, a former American Motors chairman who is now a professor of organizational behavior at the University of Michigan. "They have got to get out and lead the market in design."
G.M. knows it needs flashier cars, and is attacking that problem. "To get market share you need great products," said John F. Smith Jr., 61, G.M.'s chairman and chief executive. He is expected to retire in May, along with the director who helped install him in a palace coup in 1992, John G. Smale. "We've got a lot of strength coming in the marketplace," Mr. Smith said.
The changing of the guard is likely to amount to different men wearing the same uniforms and marching with the same methodical steps, according to interviews with directors, executives and others close to the company.
In the expected succession, several executives close to Mr. Smith would simply move up the ladder. Harry J. Pearce, 57, now vice chairman, would become chairman, while G. Richard Wagoner Jr., 46, now president and chief operating officer, would become chief executive. Mr. Smith said in a recent interview that he had no plans to retire soon, but people close to the company said that he is ready to step down and that the board planned to announce those changes in January, effective when Mr. Smale retires in May.
G.M.'s leaders said in a series of interviews that the company would be hitting on all cylinders within a few years -- that it had redefined each brand and was developing cars and trucks that meet its sharpened marketing goals. In an effort to win back buyers, G.M. plans to introduce 20 new car models and 40 light-truck models worldwide in the next four years.
IF it works, G.M. will have a sizable edge over its rivals. As other car makers scramble to become big enough to sell cars worldwide -- in the last year, Daimler-Benz bought Chrysler, Ford bought Volvo and Renault took a big stake in Nissan -- G.M. is already global in a way that they only dream of being.
Some experts said great designs could indeed jump-start G.M. "You can't expect to get much change in market share when you are just me-tooing," said David E. Cole, director of the University of Michigan's Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation. He noted that Chrysler -- the poster child of car company turnarounds -- "was very damaged and they turned it around remarkably fast."
Robert A. Lutz, Chrysler's retired president and vice chairman, agreed: "If they really came up with blockbuster cars and trucks as opposed to me-too vehicles or O.K. vehicles, they could turn things around in a hurry."
G.M. has a long way to go. Because its market-share decline has been so steady, it is hard to grasp its severity. At its peak, in 1962, G.M. sold 51 percent of the nation's sets of wheels -- with its Chevrolet division alone selling 31 percent.
In the 1999 model year, the whole company sold just 29.7 percent in an industry where executives claw like alley cats for every tenth of a point. G.M.'s market share even ticked down a tenth of a point from the 1998 model year, when a strike shut down production and essentially erased a month's worth of sales. In the 1997 model year, a fairer comparison, G.M.'s share stood at 31 percent.
The October 1999 number was G.M.'s lowest ever, with the exception of strikes.
The global picture is also grim: At its postwar peak in 1950, G.M., which peddles cars and trucks in 170 countries, sold 39.6 percent of the world's vehicles. By 1992, when Mr. Smith took over, that was down to 17.6 percent. In the first nine months of this year, it was 15.9 percent.
Starting next year, the board will add worldwide market share to the criteria that determine executive compensation.
"We need to grow market share; there is no question about it," Mr. Pearce said. "Our necks are on the line."
Car companies in trouble typically focus first on fixing what is closest to the consumer -- their cars and trucks. That is what Nissan is trying to do now, and what Chrysler already has done.
In the 1980's, Chrysler was best known for its boxy K-cars. But in 1989, it unveiled the Dodge Viper, a flashy muscle car. "An automobile company doesn't even have to be very good to look great if they have blockbuster products," said Mr. Lutz, now chief executive of Exide, the world's largest battery maker. "The Viper was the key to revitalizing the whole Dodge brand and possibly the whole Chrysler Corporation."
But that hasn't been G.M.'s way. It lost $2 billion in 1990 and $4.5 billion in 1991. Since Mr. Smith took over in 1992, G.M. has made money every year -- and has fixed everything but its cars.
Today's cars, of course, are better than yesteryear's, but the improvements haven't been enough to pass the competition. However, executives have managed to lift profits by improving productivity, quality, time to market, manufacturing, operating efficiency and, most recently, labor relations.
"We have systematically changed most things at General Motors," Mr. Smith said. "We're not a troubled company."
G.M. has set quarterly earnings records for four quarters in a row. Its high-profit sport utility vehicles and pickups are so popular that it cannot build them fast enough. Most analysts urge clients to buy G.M. stock. And despite its shrinking market share, G.M. is poised to set sales records this year because overall sales levels are so high.
BUT these achievements, to some extent, are the products of a sizzling economy. On closer inspection, G.M.'s financial picture is mixed. On the upside, it has already surpassed next year's goal of an average 12.5 percent return on net assets for four quarters in a row.
On the other hand, Mr. Smith had set a quarterly 5 percent net profit margin goal. But in the third quarter, G.M. missed that by a mile, managing just 2 percent, with its Latin American and Asia operations losing money. For the first nine months of the year, the overall margin was 3.4 percent. By comparison, Ford's margin was 6.3 percent.
And while G.M. has vastly improved its manufacturing efficiency, so have its competitors. Two decades ago, the Japanese could build cars for about $1,000 less than America's Big Three, according to Harbour & Associates, an auto industry research firm. Its latest study showed that G.M., along with DaimlerChrysler, still operates with roughly the same gap, while Ford has cut it in half.
G.M. has gone to great lengths, meanwhile, to impress shareholders. Between January 1997 and Oct. 13 of this year, it spent $7.5 billion to buy back 15.6 percent of its shares. It has sold or spun off to shareholders its Electronic Data Systems, Hughes Defense and Delphi Automotive Systems subsidiaries. And it is evaluating whether to spin off part of Hughes Electronics.
G.M. stock, having started the year at $58, ran up to a high of about $77 in April, but has since dropped to about $68.875, following the general trading pattern of Ford's stock. Most analysts rate the stock a buy, in part because it trades at just 8.12 times earnings.
But many rate it a buy for another reason. As John A. Casesa, an auto analyst at Merrill Lynch, put it in a recent report, the possibility of a Hughes Electronics spinoff "is the key attraction."
And while outsiders applaud G.M.'s efforts to improve its lineup, many are skeptical about the ability of G.M. executives to predict which cars and trucks will attract customers, given the company's track record of turning out dull designs. G.M.'s rivals are rushing out new models, too.
Robert J. Eaton, a former G.M. executive who is now co-chairman of DaimlerChrysler, said the thought of competing with G.M.'s future offerings didn't exactly make his knees knock. G.M. has not proved a force to worry about for some time and, he said, "I don't expect it will in the future either."
But Ronald L. Zarrella, president of G.M.'s North American operations and its marketing chief, countered: "I hope our competitors are writing us off. I think they are making a huge mistake."
Others hope so, too. G.M. stock can be found in the portfolios or pension plans of at least 1.2 million Americans, and nearly 400,000 workers around the world depend on G.M. for a livelihood. So while "What's good for G.M. is good for America" may be an outdated saying, the company remains awesome in size and impact.
The market share question is important not only because it symbolizes the decline of a once-great American company. Its answer may also be essential to the well-being of G.M.'s 143,200 factory workers in the United States. Mr. Zarrella said one reason the company's share had not increased this year was that G.M. is already building as many cars and trucks as it can. But in a weaker economy, workers now pulling overtime would probably face layoffs.
"In a lower market, we've got to increase our market share," Mr. Pearce said. "You would have excess capacity, and excess capacity means higher costs and less profitability and that's not the way we are going."
G.M. executives can explain their market share problems. "When we had the difficulties in the early 90's, we had to stop a lot of product programs," Mr. Smith said. "That hurt us."
When G.M. started making money again, it concentrated on replacing its biggest sellers with fresh products -- primarily midsized cars and minivans in a market craving sport utility vehicles and pickups. And because the money those cars brought in was keeping the rest of the company afloat, managers were loath to take design chances.
THAT is no longer the case. By 2004, G.M. wants half of its lineup to be made up of innovative products -- cars and trucks that are daringly designed, that do something other auto makers haven't thought of or that sharply improve on what others have done. The bulk would be vehicles that mix and match attributes of cars, pickups and minivans.
That is a big change. Three years ago, G.M. looked five years into the future and classified fewer than 5 percent of its products as innovative, said Lawrence D. Burns, G.M.'s vice president for research and development and planning.
Mr. Wagoner added: "I think people would like to see a little more spice in the mix -- maybe products, frankly, that may not be that critical from our volume and pricing and profitability perspective, but might liven up the overall car portfolio. And I think that's a fair criticism, and I think you are going to see more of those."
Some question whether G.M. can pull it off. Industry leaders say top G.M. executives are not "car guys" but financial wizards who seem out of place at car races, where many industry executives seem at home. As a result, those leaders said, they do not trust their gut instincts for what will prove popular with buyers, and instead rely heavily on research. Mr. Smale, retired chairman of Procter & Gamble, is as happy selling soap as cars, and so are many of the marketers G.M. has hired in recent years to sharpen the image of its vehicles. Mr. Pearce is a lawyer.
"G.M. is betting its future on getting the science of predicting what will work versus what won't work to levels which nobody has achieved before," said Mr. Lutz, the retired Chrysler executive. "It is possible that the science will prevail, but it would be the only area of creative expression where a scientific formula will determine the hits."
Indeed, in 10 separate interviews, G.M. executives mentioned the "R.D.B.'s" of various cars and trucks -- the "relative differentiated benefits" they give customers.
To be sure, the research effort is awesome in scope. G.M. has 40 full-time people who search the world for social, economic, environmental and political trends that might influence buyers. The sophisticated, ambitious forecasting and planning projects are intended to ensure that G.M. can be ready for whatever the future holds. One "what if" situation is that people will someday travel in flying cars, just as portrayed on "The Jetsons."
Despite G.M.'s Herculean research efforts, outsiders are skeptical. Just three years ago, G.M. introduced 15 cars and trucks that executives insisted would end the company's slide in market share. But those models only increased share slightly in some segments, while the overall decline continued.
As for G.M.'s latest assertions, "we've heard that song before," said Nissan's president of North American design, Gerald P. Hirshberg.
But G.M.'s rivals are hardly standing still. DaimlerChrysler is investing about $47 billion to develop 64 new cars and commercial vehicles by 2004. Toyota plans to introduce 11 models in the United States in the next 18 months. The much smaller BMW plans about a dozen in the United States in the next two years. And all auto makers are rushing to add new crossover products -- vehicles that combine car and truck attributes -- to the American market.
While G.M. said it had been focusing intensely on styling for the last 18 months -- and vehicles take up to five years to develop -- the company's latest styling attempts have been mere evolutions of existing designs. A year ago, G.M. replaced its full-sized pickups -- the Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra -- and in January it will bring out sport utility vehicles based on those designs, new versions of the Chevrolet Suburban and GMC Yukon XL.
G.M. executives argue that customers who are likely to buy those vehicles don't want radical styling changes. And they point out that the new trucks are handily outselling the old ones. '
'The new truck, some would say, is in terms of its styling, incremental," Mr. Pearce said. "That's what our marketing research said was warranted." While other companies are rushing out expressive designs for their sport utility vehicles, G.M.'s will look much like those that have been on the street for nine years.
G.M.'s newest design efforts -- the Chevrolet Impala and its two-door cousin, the Monte Carlo -- have also turned out bland, according to competing designers. But Mr. Pearce said "an Impala is very exciting in its own market segment," arguing that buyers of midsized sedans are more concerned about safety features and interior space than styling.
While some reviewers have given the cars high marks for handling, others are less generous in their praise. Automobile Magazine called the Monte Carlo "inoffensive but hardly exciting" and wrote, "We hope that by the next redesign, Chevrolet might wake up and make the Monte Carlo great as opposed to just O.K."
Mr. Wagoner shrugged. "Beauty is a little bit in the eye of beholder," he said.
OF course, styling isn't the most important attribute for some buyers. Legions of baby boomers have grown to trust Consumer Reports, but G.M. vehicles seldom excel there either. "Generally, the G.M. products have not done well," said David A. Champion, the magazine's director of auto testing. "In terms of reliability, they've always been below average, so we haven't been able to recommend them."
"They're getting better," Mr. Champion said. But he could only think of two the magazine had recommended in recent years: the Chevrolet Lumina, which he said was reliable but had sloppy handling, and the Oldsmobile Intrigue, which recently was dropped from the recommended list because of reliability problems.
Even if the skeptics are wrong and customers fall in love with the cars and trucks that flow out of G.M.'s new efforts, it will be years before most make it from designers' drawing boards to dealers' lots. Mr. Zarrella said market share should gradually increase because of new models like the Saturn LS and the Chevrolet Silverado and Suburban.
"The truth will be told over the next five years," Mr. Wagoner said. "I don't deny there are a lot of challenges for us, but I would have to say I like our deck of cards."
As Mr. Wagoner and Mr. Pearce prepare to take the reins at G.M., and as Mr. Smith and Mr. Smale prepare to retire, there is another striking change from 1992. The board is no longer clamoring for anyone's head. In fact, Mr. Smale is defending current management against outside critics instead of leading the charge to throw it out. "This is a cup half full, not half empty," Mr. Smale said.
And while market share is so important that it is now discussed at every board meeting, it is not done in a scolding manner.
"This is not the board shaking its finger at a complacent management, saying, 'Why don't you get your market share up?' " Mr. Smale said in a recent interview in his Cincinnati office. "The board agrees with management that the market share ought to be higher."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: G.M.'s management is expected to change. From bottom to top: John F. Smith Jr., chairman; John G. Smale, lead director; Harry J. Pearce, vice chairman, and G. Richard Wagoner Jr., president. When Mr. Smith retires, Mr. Pearce becomes chairman and Mr. Wagoner chief executive. (Jim West for The New York Times); In G.M.'s expected succession next spring, Harry J. Pearce, 57, above, now vice chairman, would become chairman, replacing John F. Smith Jr., 61. (Allan Barnes for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 
Graph tracks General Motors market share of domestic cars and light trucks and worldwide vehicle sales from 1982 through 1998. (Source: Ward's Auto Info Bank; G.M.)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "The Road G.M. Is Taking"
General Motors is sharpening the image of its seven brands in an effort to turn around its sinking market share.
 
CHEVROLET
CURRENT DESIGNS: IMPALA
DIVISIONAL MARKET SHARE -- Cars and light trucks
 '92: 16.7%
 '99: 15.3%
DIVISION'S MOTTO: "The most dependable cars in America."
COMPARISONS
G.M. likens the image of its divisions to these products: Gap denim shirt; Converse basketball shoes; Timex watch
FUTURE CONCEPTS
Designs represent the future style of the divisions: TRAVERSE
 
PONTIAC
CURRENT DESIGNS: GRAND AM
DIVISIONAL MARKET SHARE -- Cars and light trucks
 '92: 4.3%
 '99: 3.7%
DIVISION'S MOTTO: "Driving excitement."
COMPARISONS
G.M. likens the image of its divisions to these products: Sony Walkman; Mountain bike; Salomon in-line skates
FUTURE CONCEPTS
Designs represent the future style of the divisions: PIRANHA
 
GMC
CURRENT DESIGNS: YUKON
DIVISIONAL MARKET SHARE -- Cars and light trucks
 '92: 2.6%
 '99: 3.0%
DIVISION'S MOTTO: "Authentic, professional grade."
COMPARISONS
G.M. likens the image of its divisions to these products: DeWalt tools; Breitling watch; Sub-Zero refrigerator
FUTURE CONCEPTS
Designs represent the future style of the divisions: TERRADYNE
 
BUICK
CURRENT DESIGNS: LE SABRE
DIVISIONAL MARKET SHARE -- Cars and light trucks
 '92: 4.1%
 '99: 2.7%
DIVISION'S MOTTO: "Understated, premium family cars."
COMPARISONS
G.M. likens the image of its divisions to these products: Ralph Lauren place setting; Giorgio Armani sunglasses; Stainless steel cigar cutter
FUTURE CONCEPTS
Designs represent the future style of the divisions: LACROSS
 
OLDSMOBILE
CURRENT DESIGNS: AURORA
DIVISIONAL MARKET SHARE -- Cars and light trucks
 '92: 3.2%
 '99: 2.1%
DIVISION'S MOTTO: "Refined, confident performance."
COMPARISONS
G.M. likens the image of its divisions to these products: Braun electric shaver; Toastmaster toaster designed by Porsche; Skagen watch
FUTURE CONCEPTS
Designs represent the future style of the divisions: PROFILE
 
SATURN
CURRENT DESIGNS: L-SERIES
DIVISIONAL MARKET SHARE -- Cars and light trucks
 '92: 1.5%
 '99: 1.4%
DIVISION'S MOTTO: "A different kind of compa-ny, a different kind of car."
COMPARISONS
G.M. likens the image of its divisions to these products: Michael Graves's iron designed for Target; Ergonomic keyboard; Kitchen Tools blender
FUTURE CONCEPTS
Designs represent the future style of the divisions: CV1
 
CADILLAC
CURRENT DESIGNS: DEVILLE
DIVISIONAL MARKET SHARE -- Cars and light trucks
 '92: 1.7%
 '99: 1.0%
DIVISION'S MOTTO: "The fusion of art and science."
COMPARISONS
G.M. likens the image of its divisions to these products: Cobra putter; Issey Miyake men's; Eau de Toilette; Bang & Olufsen stereo
FUTURE CONCEPTS
Designs represent the future style of the divisions: EVOQ
(Sources: Ward's Auto Info Bank; G.M.)
(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; AUTOMOBILES MARKET SHARE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN RICK WAGONER (72%); GIORGIO ARMANI (50%); RALPH LAUREN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



163 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Coaching Entrepreneurs for Profit

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
IN his years in Congress and in his career as a professional football player, Jack Kemp gained fame but little fortune. Now, Washington's champion of entrepreneurship and the free market is turning his preaching into practice, embracing capitalism in a more personal way: He owns high-technology stocks worth millions, he's on the boards of nine public companies, he's an adviser to two Silicon Valley venture capital firms and he's raised capital for fledgling Internet ventures.
"I'm a Nasdaq kind of guy," said Mr. Kemp, co-director of Empower America, a Washington nonprofit corporation he helped found to promote the free market. "I want to see the little guy grow up to be a big guy -- and take me with him." 
 And what a ride it is for Mr. Kemp, who at 64 is being rewarded handsomely for connecting Washington with Silicon Valley. For starters, his Empower America board is filled with top names in private equity: The Forstmann brothers, Ted and Nicholas; Julian H. Robertson Jr., chairman of Tiger Management; and West Coast venture players like Thomas W. Weisel, who heads his own firm, and E. Floyd Kvamme, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers.
With such gold-plated connections, Mr. Kemp has become a strategic adviser, an indefatigable networker and a man who can meld ideas, people and money. "Jack really sees the value of entrepreneurial capital and now he's in it up to his waist," said Mr. Kvamme of Kleiner Perkins.
For instance, Mr. Kemp introduced Mr. Kvamme to the management of SeeItFirst.Com, an Internet streaming video company that plans to go public one day. Kleiner Perkins backed the company, and Mr. Kemp is a board member and investor.
"I played football when there was no money in it, and I was in Congress when there was not a great deal of income from it," Mr. Kemp said in a telephone interview. "I believe in capitalism and I paid my dues. Now I'm doing very well."
A look at his diversified portfolio of corporate board memberships shows how well: Carson Inc., an ethnic hair care company; JumpMusic.Com, an Internet music retailer; Proxicom, an Internet networker; Oracle, the software giant; ZapMe, an educational networking company; the Hawk Corporation, an industrial components maker; Realmed, a health care company; Speedway Motorsports, car racing sponsors; and Sports Authority Inc., a sporting goods retailer. The latter two seats came about through his friendship with Nick Buoniconti, the former Miami Dolphin.
Mr. Kemp is also on the advisory boards of two venture capital firms, Thayer Capital Partners in Washington and Thomas Weisel partners in San Francisco. He is also a professional speaker and is on the board of nonprofits like Howard University, Habitat for Humanity and Opportunity Industrial Centers, an urban business development group, pursuing his belief that entrepreneurism can help minorities and the poor, too.
"I introduce companies to people who have access to capital," said Mr. Kemp, the vice-presidential candidate on the 1996 Republican ticket. "I introduced Proxicom to Tom Weisel and he did the secondary stock offering. I'm involved in start-ups, in speed-ups. While I don't consider myself an expert, I can open doors and make introductions."
Financiers say Mr. Kemp's advice is invaluable. "Only recently has Silicon Valley realized government exercises a big role," said Joseph G. Fogg 3rd, a venture capitalist and Empower America board member.
The boards of these companies generally pay Mr. Kemp an annual retainer of $10,000 to $30,000, plus around $1,000 for each meeting he attends, along with fees for other activities. And he can buy stock at a discount.
While Mr. Kemp will not say how much he earns, Securities and Exchange Commission filings indicate he owns around $2.3 million in Proxicom shares and has 63,000 options in Oracle, a company whose stock closed last week at $58.6875. He met Lawrence J. Ellison, the Oracle chief executive, through a leading Bush administration economic adviser, Michael Boskin. "Sixty-three thousand Oracle options," Mr. Kemp said. "I got a lot more than that. It's a great company. I jumped at the opportunity to be on that board because it's one of the most dynamic software companies on the face of the globe."
How Mr. Kemp ended up making millions from Proxicom, based in Reston, Va., is a tale of politics paying off in unexpected ways. Proxicom's chief executive, Raul Fernandez, 33, with a net worth of at least $287 million, once worked for Mr. Kemp on Capitol Hill. "Raul's a brilliant guy, did all my computer work for me when he was 19 years old," Mr. Kemp said. "He's just a neat, neat guy and he came to me one day and said 'Mr. Kemp, I think I want to start my own business.' And, here I am the champion of capitalism and I say to him 'stay with me and I can get you a $10,000 raise in the Bush administration.'
"Well, now he put me on his board," Mr. Kemp said, "and I put him him in touch with some venture capital guys and he went public five months ago and today the stock hits 83 and Raul's worth like a half-billion dollars."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Kemp, one-time quarterback, one-time candidate for vice president, is now up to his waist in capitalism as a co-founder of a group that matches entrepreneurs with venture funds. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: TRK (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (81%); NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (80%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (80%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336340 MOTOR VEHICLE BRAKE SYSTEM MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (62%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (62%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS335129 OTHER LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3648 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (51%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: EMPOWER AMERICA SOFTSHEEN/CARSON PRODUCTS INC (81%); SPORTS AUTHORITY INC (80%); WELLMAN PRODUCTS GROUP (62%); THAYER/HIDDEN CREEK (58%); PURESPECTRUM INC (52%); ICROSSING INC (51%); SPEEDWAY MOTORSPORTS INC (51%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMPOWER AMERICA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; VENTURE CAPITAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ENTREPRENEURSHIP (94%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); AUTO RACING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (76%); STREAMING MEDIA (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); INTERNET VIDEO (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (69%); HEALTH CARE (66%); RETAILERS (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (62%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (60%); TOILETRIES MFG (60%); 

PERSON: KEMP, JACK F; WAYNE, LESLIE JACK KEMP (97%); THOMAS W WEISEL (56%); E FLOYD KVAMME (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



164 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS: Next to Mom and Dad;
It's a Hard Life (or Not)

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
MONEY doesn't buy happiness -- and among teenagers, it may actually make life feel harder.
In a New York Times/CBS News Poll last month, 1,038 young people aged 13 to 17 were asked to compare their lives with what their parents experienced growing up. Over all, 43 percent said they were having a harder time, 33 percent said they were having an easier time and 23 percent said it was about the same. At the same time, there was a divide along economic lines, with the upper-income children saying they were feeling more burdened. 
 In fact, the affluent teenagers, whatever their race or gender, were substantially more likely than those from more modest homes to report that their lives were harder and subject to more stress: Among those with household incomes of $75,000 or more, 50 percent said their lives were harder, 28 percent said easier and 21 percent said they were about the same.
Among those from families where the household income was less than $30,000, only 38 percent said their lives were harder than their parents', compared to 41 percent who said their lives were easier and 18 percent who said they were about the same. Among those with household incomes of $30,000 to $50,000, 41 percent said their lives were harder, 33 percent said easier and 26 percent said about the same.
Some social scientists believe the gap is a measure of what parents tell their children, and how the information is conveyed.
"It's a really interesting class issue," said Gina Bria, an anthropologist at the Institute for Family Development in New York City. "In families living close to the bone, parents are more likely to pass on family stories about how people survived, and in the process to pass on skills for living. Wealthy kids often have less of a perspective on the struggles of life. And in some strata, there is a lot of pressure to keep the family's new-found status, and children feel the pressure to get into elite schools, to be sure they don't slide back. Everything's about going forward, about prosperity. Falling back is the American nightmare."
In later interviews with some of the teenagers who took part in the poll, the more affluent said that higher parental expectations, more pressure for good grades, a faster pace of life and a more dangerous world made their teen years more stressful than those of their parents.
It may come as a surprise to parents who came of age in the druggy 1960's and 1970's, with the Vietnam war raging, but many of their teenagers sound wistful describing their parents' childhood as care free, leisurely and safe.
"My parents both said they felt safe growing up, my dad in Long Island and my mom in California," said Ashley Nielsen, 14, of Alta Loma, Calif. "They could do a lot of things we can't do today, like I don't think they had to worry about things like hitch-hiking. Sometimes at football games, or when there's a whole bunch of teenagers around, I feel a little nervous, like something could happen. My world is pretty safe, but I know there's a real world out there. I think there's more peer pressure now than there was in their time, and more expectations to get good grades. Grades are the biggest stress for most kids I know."
Several teenagers who said their lives were harder described a steady anxiety about peer pressure and living up to their parents' academic expectations.
"Life was just a lot easier when my parents were growing up," said Tommy Shipp, 15, of Houston. "They didn't have as much peer pressure to do drugs and all that. There's a lot more pressure to be popular, and to drink. I've heard my parents talk. My dad's parents didn't really care what he did, he got kicked out of the house at 15."
But now that his father is a highly successful businessman, Tommy says: "I'm definitely going to go to college, and they care about how I'm doing in school."
Several of the more affluent teenagers who said life has gotten harder attributed it to a sense of too-muchness: too many activities, too many consumer choices, too much to learn.
"I think everything's gotten harder since my parents were growing up," said Molly Wilhelm, 15, of Lakeville, Minn. "Back then, I think everyone was more equal, but now, because there's so much more offered in styles of clothes and stuff, we all want to fit in. I think my parents had more free time, and the world isn't as safe as it was in their day. It's more common for kids to do drugs and all that stuff. Education gets progressively harder as people learn more, and there's more to cover. And now that there's more technology, they expect more out of us."
MANY teenagers from more modest backgrounds view the new technologies and new opportunities as making their lives easier than their parents' were.
"I think it's easier now, because of technology," said Ariel Garcia of Opa-Locka, Fla. "When you want to do a report, you just look at the Internet, you don't have to go to the library. Cars have air-conditioning now, so you're comfortable. There's microwaves, so it's easy to cook. My dad had it much harder. He's Dominican, and he was in the Navy. That's tough. I would never go into the Navy. Those rich kids, they don't appreciate what their parents do for them. The money just goes through their hands."
While the more affluent teenagers portray their parents' upbringing as easier, and more idyllic, the lower-income youngsters talk more of the difficulties their parents had to overcome.
"There were 13 in my mom's family, and there's only four of us, and without so many brothers and sisters, my mom can take care of all of us," said Rae-chelle Nunn, 17, of Columbia, Tenn. "Like my mom drives me to school, but when she was a kid, she had to walk."
Asked why the richest teenagers might see their lives as harder, Ms. Nunn has a quick answer "They're just spoiled brats," she said, laughing. "But I am too. My mom spoils all of us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A slightly beleaguered-looking youngster in Malibu, Calif. (Lauren Greenfield/Corbis-Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (85%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (85%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); TRENDS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FAMILY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: TOMMY SHIPP (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



165 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS: GILT COMPLEX;
It's No Longer Just the Economy, Stupid

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE median size of a new house in the United States just passed 2,000 square feet, 25 percent bigger than two decades ago. Ford's new Excursion, a $37,000 behemoth of a sport utility vehicle, is selling out as soon as it reaches dealers. Half of all households now invest in the stock market. Unemployment is at a nearly 30-year low.
America is doing well by any material measure, and for the most part is thoroughly enjoying the experience. But there are also signs amid the prosperity that people are asking whether this is all there is, whether driving cars the size of tanks and parking them in garages the size of gymnasiums is truly the national purpose. 
 Polling shows that most Americans view themselves as less cynical and more compassionate than even a few years ago, and that they are inclined to do more for the less fortunate now that they have taken care of themselves. There has been a surge in volunteerism. Charitable giving is up across income levels.
At the same time, sociologists and commentators report that people feel more stressed, that they do not have enough time for their families, that they sometimes see their quality of life failing to keep up with their improved finances.
Restless searches for spiritual fulfillment and backlashes against consumerism are longstanding features of American society, and are magnified during periods of affluence, when people have the luxury of looking beyond the next paycheck.
Culture warriors, especially on the right, have long warned of a dangerous emptiness in the national soul. And it may be that the whole phenomenon this time around is nothing more than an attempt by self-absorbed baby boomers to feel better about themselves, especially given the persistence of the gap between rich and poor and the unforgiving nature of the global economy.
But the country also seems to be grappling genuinely with the question of how it can best put its prosperity to use.
THERE may never be a single or clear answer. But the issues behind the question are bouncing around Washington and on the campaign trail with increasing prominence.
In the aftermath of a bitterly partisan presidential scandal, it is perhaps not surprising that Washington has not yet reached any consensus. Presented with the opportunity this year to allocate huge projected surpluses, Congress and the Clinton administration gridlocked, shunting big ideas from both parties to the sidelines for now.
Still, there seems little doubt of a renewed willingness on the part of politicians across the ideological spectrum to focus more on those who have not benefited from the current boom. Less clear is how big an effort the country is prepared to mount to deal with such problems.
President Clinton, who twice won office by appealing to the middle class, spent two days last week touring inner cities, using some of his dwindling reserves of political capital to draw attention to ways in which a little bit of public money can encourage private enterprise to bring jobs and hope to the country's most blighted neighborhoods.
Not to be outdone, Republicans accepted an invitation for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert to join Mr. Clinton in promoting the approach, which as much as any program illustrates a trend toward small-scale solutions that look to market forces and individuals rather than big government.
IN his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination, Bill Bradley is bucking the trend to some degree. He is suggesting that government can tackle a few big problems with big programs and lots of taxpayer money, although even he looks to the private sector and markets in his plans to alleviate child poverty and improve access to health care.
Vice President Al Gore has positioned himself somewhere in the center. He has blasted Mr. Bradley for proposing to spend so much that the nation's newfound fiscal health would be endangered, and talks mostly about "working families," but has his own plans for issues like providing health care to poor children.
"Whether you believe that the federal government should do it or the state government or your church, there is a general feeling that we can now as a country look beyond our driveway and say, who in my town needs help?" said Rich Galen, a Republican consultant. "If somebody can tap into that, it can be a powerful political force."
In fact, the front-runner for the Republican nomination, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, seemed to recognize the opportunity particularly early, and built his campaign around the theme "Prosperity With a Purpose."
That purpose, it seems, is as broad and vague as it is indisputably admirable: that nobody gets left behind. And if the main beneficiaries are meant to be the poor and the poorly educated, the act of addressing their needs is intended to make those in a position to help feel more fulfilled as well.
IT has not escaped Mr. Bush's team that the approach could help neutralize the strong economy as an issue favoring the vice president by shifting the focus from whether voters are better off than they were four or eight years ago to how to capitalize on the good times. But they say the slogan only resonates because the country is looking for a moral dimension to its happiness.
"There's a sense out there in America that for years people strived for prosperity, and now they've achieved it but feel incomplete," said Mark McKinnon, Mr. Bush's media consultant. "Governor Bush has articulated a message that many Americans feel, which is that it's not enough for our wallets to be full if our hearts are empty."
Mr. Bush's ideas on how to achieve such a transformation -- like supporting faith-based charities, giving tax breaks to the working poor and improving underperforming school systems -- would not put any big new burdens on the middle class and would by no means rule out a broad-based tax cut.
And even in the context of a middle class that is looking for more than material gain, the middle class is still likely to demand attention for its problems.
Both parties are acutely conscious of a vague but persistent sense among many relatively well-off families that their children are not getting the attention they deserve, that they hardly know their neighbors anymore, that their lives are getting harder, not easier.
In some cases, the government can respond with specific policies, like requiring employers to provide leave for births, deaths or family emergencies. In other cases, politicians are struggling with how to respond.
"It's really a new agenda, and a lot of times leaders don't know what the solutions are or even what the questions are," said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster. "Leaders who speak to it and come up with new approaches will be received well."
Ruminating last week on the new politics of prosperity, a senior member of the Clinton administration said that while the revived focus on poverty fighting was well established, there would also be a greater focus on what he called "trans-economic" issues.
"There's a kind of inner angst, beyond-materialism kind of dynamic that's emerging," he said. "It's 'Tipper Gore was right' kind of stuff: Is there a movie you can take your kids to? Are we raising a nation of Nintendo zombies?"
WHAT may be new is the degree to which such social and family concerns are no longer articulated un-self-consciously just by the religious right, which claimed them as its own during the 1980's.
Instead, they have become part of what Amitai Etzioni, a sociologist at George Washington University, called the "new, more moderate language of the moral center."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lucre next to the Lord: Trinity Church, in the heart of New York's financial district. Amid prosperity, many Americans are asking: Is this all there is? Politicians are taking note. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRENDS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); CHARITIES (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); POLITICS (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



166 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Leaving the Farm for the Other Real World

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: FARGO, N.D.

 BODY:
TO Scott Halley, there was never any question that he was meant to be a farmer, his life forever set to the rhythms of planting and harvesting wheat.
But the balance sheet told another story. 
 "You look at the numbers at the end of the pencil," said Mr. Halley, 44, "and you realize it's time to try something different."
With a heavy heart, but a clear head, Mr. Halley recently joined a growing trend of American farmers who are voluntarily leaving agriculture rather than lose money year after year. But what has surprised many of them is that the transition to urban life has been so successful. Businesses are eager to hire farmers, who are often well educated and highly skilled as managers. And their families often relish the social and cultural offerings in places where the lights shine brighter.
A century ago, nearly half of all Americans lived on farms and ranches. Now fewer than 1 in 100 people farm. The winnowing of their numbers has been chiefly a matter of the food supply exceeding demand; technological advances, from tractors to computers, have allowed each acre of land to produce more and more bushels of grain.
While the resulting decrease in crop prices benefits consumers, farmers are struggling to survive. Operating on slim margins, only the largest farms stand a chance of turning a reasonable profit. Thousands of small farmers sell out every week, typically to a much larger agricultural enterprise.
Since leaving their farm in remote Bisbee a year ago to work as a soil scientist at North Dakota State University here, Mr. Halley has seen the family's income double to more than $40,000. And the Halleys' three children, who feared leaving rural life and starting over in suburban West Fargo, have thrived academically and socially in their new surroundings.
"The kids would never want to go back now," said Mr. Halley."The telephone never stops ringing."
A recent study at Iowa State University found that former farmers have largely succeeded in building satisfying new lives and sound financial foundations.
"The good news is that there is life after farming," said Fred Lorenz, a sociologist who worked on the study, which is to be published in the journal Rural Sociology.
Iowa State has begun a program that helps farmers move into other jobs. While farmers often walk away from the fields with deep feelings of dejection and failure, they have highly marketable skills, including working on computers, dealing with financial markets and running a business. Many farmers under age 50 are college graduates.
"Farmers underestimate their market potential," said Bruce Babcock, an agricultural economist at Iowa State. "They have a skill package that's in demand. It's just a matter of convincing them."
BUT even for those who found good jobs, leaving farming exacts a profound emotional toll, made all the more keen since farmers are surrendering a way of life that has often been carried on for generations.
"It's not just about making money, but about having a life that is meaningful," said Dr. Michael Rosmann, a farmer and psychologist who counsels farmers. "For most of them, that grieving lasts for the rest of their lives. To make the decision to quit farming, to do what's best for the family, takes an awful lot of courage."
Mr. Halley, who tended land that had been homesteaded by his wife's grandfather, feels the pull of the land every day. Once a week he drives eight hours to work a portion of the farm that has not been rented to other farmers, just to sustain the bond for a day. Mr. Halley, who earned an economics degree in 1978, is working on completing a master's degree. His wife, Denise, works for a catalog company in Fargo.
To succeed on their farm, the Halleys needed to get about $100 from an acre. Nearly 70 percent of that cost was tied to planting -- buying the crop, paying for fertilizer, maintaining machines; another 10 percent went for overhead and interest payments on the $130,000 debt for machinery. But with wheat selling for $2.40 a bushel, with 30 bushels an acre, the Halleys were falling far short.
Professor Babcock said farmers often succumb to a crisis mode of thinking -- "If I can just hang on for one more year, maybe things will get better." Too often the result is a draining of resources until nothing is left, he said.
Today grain prices are at their lowest levels in more than 10 years, even without adjusting for inflation. Farm aid packages enacted by Congress in the last two years have helped some farmers stave off failure. Despite the hard times, farmers have not been whipsawed by the terrible conditions of the 1980's, when land values fell sharply, interest rates soared and many banks called in their loans.
THE number of full-time farmers in the country has been falling since the 1930's, to less than one million. Iowa alone is losing some 1,500 farmers a year, Professor Babcock said. The typical Iowa farmer earns between $25,000 and $50,000 a year.
More than half of Iowa's farmers commute to jobs in offices or factories. It has become unusual for any farm to survive without some non-farm paycheck, often provided by a wife.
In the Iowa State study of farmers who left the land, incomes rose, and measures of stress and symptoms of depression declined, among children as well as parents.
Megan Halley, 13, who transferred from a class of 30 at Rock Lake School to a class of 400 at West Fargo Middle School, spoke with excitement about the courses in her new school. She especially likes art, which was not offered at Rock Lake, and computer technology. Back on the farm, she said, the antiquated phone system took five minutes or more just to dial up to the Internet.
"It's cool here," said Megan, who now shops at a nearby Gap, rollerblades at Skateland and finds the latest releases of one of her favorite band, Savage Gardens, at the record outlet. The closest store to the Halleys' Bisbee farm is a 10-mile drive.
Megan worried she might not fit in with the young people in her new surroundings.
"The boys here aren't any different than back in the country," she said. "There's just a lot more of them."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scott and Denise Halley's farm in the Bisbee, N.D. Mrs. Halley's grandfather homesteaded the farm. In 1911 family members at the 1908 farmhouse. The Halleys outside their new home in Fargo. From left, Megan, Denise, Bryn, Scott and Jeremiah. (Dan Koeck for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (87%); 

CITY: FARGO, ND, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (87%); FARGO, ND, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FARMERS & RANCHERS (93%); FAMILY (89%); SOCIOLOGY (88%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (78%); AGRONOMY (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); TRENDS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (61%); CITY LIFE (55%); CITIES (55%); 

PERSON: SCOTT HALLEY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



167 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 23; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: A Dying Neighborhood Has Many Executioners

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your article "Swept Away," a sympathetic image of the White Sands community (Oct. 10) reports (prematurely, I hope) on the "death of a neighborhood." If this comes to pass, then the executioners will be the Home Depot Corporation, the top administration officials and the local politicians.
White Sands's history is colorful but this is no more an obsolete neighborhood or an unhealthy slum than Broad Channel or Rockaway Point or Clason Point or many older waterfront communities. 
 But the economic impact of the proposed 171,000-square-foot Home Depot will devastate more than the immediate White Sands area. It would threaten at least 85 local businesses, by my count, employing more than 420 people and located in the major shopping and service streets: Coney Island and McDonald Avenues, Avenue U, 86th Street, Kings Highway and many others. The loss of these businesses could undermine the value of these streets, then the surrounding communities.
I call on responsible politicians to turn thumbs down on Home Depot.
 
IRWIN FRUCHTMAN
Gravesend, Brooklyn 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (85%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC HOME DEPOT INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOME DEPOT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE SANDS (BROOKLYN NEIGHBORHOOD); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); 

PERSON: FRUCHTMAN, IRWIN

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



168 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Nothing Behind The Wall

BYLINE: By David Fromkin; David Fromkin is the author, most recently, of "Kosovo Crossing: American Ideals Meet Reality on the Balkan Battlefields."

 BODY:
When the Berlin Wall came down 10 years ago this week, it made a lot of very smart people look very foolish.
The failed rebellions of East Germany in 1953 and Hungary in 1956 had convinced most Westerners that the Eastern Europeans could not overthrow their Soviet masters by themselves -- and also that America, the only country that could stand up to the Soviet Union, would not run the risks inherent in doing so. And everything we knew about Russia, and about human nature in politics, disposed us to believe that the Kremlin would not relinquish its empire voluntarily. 
 Only a handful of thinkers, ranging from Charles de Gaulle to the Soviet dissident Andrei Amalrik, foretold the eventual dissolution of the Soviet Union itself, and even they saw it as likely to happen as a result of disastrous wars with China or pressures from the Muslim Soviet states of Central Asia.
I know of only one person who came close to getting it right: Raymond Aron, the French philosopher and liberal anti-Communist. In a talk on the Soviet threat that I heard him give in the 1980's at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, he reminded the audience of Machiavelli's observation in "The Prince" that "all armed prophets have conquered and all unarmed ones failed." But what happens, Aron asked, if the prophet, having conquered and then ruled by force of arms, loses faith in his own prophecy? In the answer to that question, Aron suggested, lay the key to understanding the future of the Soviet Union.
The Berlin Wall -- and other Soviet walls, both real and metaphorical -- came tumbling down because nobody believed in them strongly enough to man them anymore. Not even the Soviet elites, the prime beneficiaries of the collapsing system, were disposed to call out the police or armed forces in defense of their fiefdoms. The armed prophets, having lost faith in their religion, surrendered their arms.
Anniversaries provide the occasion for looking back, and for re-evaluating. Perhaps the most curious thing about the events of 10 years ago is that just as Westerners were utterly surprised by what happened, we also overestimated what it signified. Caught up in high hopes for what freedom would bring to the former Soviet bloc, we confused the collapse of a failed ideology with a victory of our own system. Thus we are puzzled and disappointed that in the intervening decade the results have been uneven, with progress (in our meaning of the word) visible in some countries but barely apparent in others.
Might the explanation for these struggles date back to the crumbling of the wall? The rot in the Communist world set in long before the revolution of 1989 -- for years, the landscape of the Soviet empire had been dotted with Potemkin villages. Professors went through the motions of teaching students what both knew to be untrue. The economy was in large part make-believe: factories pretended to produce, employers pretended to pay and workers pretended to work.
So if the loss of faith that Aron posited occurred years before the wall fell, then the Soviet experience was a life of all-embracing fraud, in which people believed neither in themselves nor in others, nor in the institutions, policies and philosophies they all purported to serve. As law and government fell into disrepute, crime and corruption thrived. Marxist idealism vanished, creating a vacuum that was quickly filled by a lingering cynicism that stood much stronger than the Berlin Wall.
Is it any wonder, then, that the events of a decade ago did not usher in, uniformly and everywhere, the rule-of-law idealism that a liberal democracy with a free-market economy requires? All societies need certain amounts of coercion, but Aron was right in saying that coercion is not enough. Belief in the system is essential, too. What happened in 1989 was that our enemies gave up their own faith without necessarily acquiring ours.
The continuing electoral success of formerly Communist candidates and parties in Eastern Europe provides evidence of how hard it has been to convert the people of the former Soviet bloc to the Western liberal faith. Yet precisely such a positive belief in our values is required in order for these countries to build successful societies.
The paradox is that the loss of faith, the cynicism, the lawlessness and the corruption that enfeebled and then brought down the wall in 1989 have kept us from fully achieving our own goals in the decade that followed, and still block the road to a more promising future. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); HUNGARY (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (77%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; EUROPE; EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); HUNGARY (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (77%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); LIBERALISM (75%); RELIGION (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (66%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (51%); 

PERSON: FROMKIN, DAVID RAYMOND ARON (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



169 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: France Presses For a Power Independent Of the U.S.

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 6

 BODY:
In a Europe that is increasingly concerned about unilateralism and resurgent isolationism in the United States, France seized the moment this week to urge the European allies to develop a more independent defense and foreign policy.
President Jacques Chirac, speaking Thursday at an international conference, warned that a world with only one superpower is not as secure and safe as a multipolar world in which Europe is one of the strongest poles. 
 Mr. Chirac said he believes this "because the present situation is causing difficulties in numerous countries, including the most powerful among them, the United States, where Congress too often gives in to the temptations of unilateralism and isolationism."
Another reason, he added, was "because the forerunners of what could someday become a new bipolar tension are already arising" between the United States and China.
French officials close to Mr. Chirac said that one of the main causes for concern in both China and France was the possible deployment by the United States of a limited missile defense shield to protect against attack by "rogue states" like Iraq or North Korea. Such a shield in the eastern Pacific region might also make China think it had to build more missiles to keep its own nuclear forces from being marginalized.
France, Germany and Britain all have strong reservations about amending the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with Moscow to permit more anti-missile defenses, and Russia has said that changing the treaty could destabilize the global strategic balance.
That is also the view of the European allies. "President Chirac has told President Clinton that it could open a Pandora's box that is in none of the allies' interest," one French official said.
In the view of French leaders since Charles de Gaulle in the early 1960's, the best insurance against both American isolationism and the capriciousness of heavy dependence on the United States has always been an independent French or European strategic power.
Now Mr. Chirac and other French officials are capitalizing on the Senate's rejection last month of a global treaty banning nuclear tests to urge Europeans not to defer to American leadership but to go ahead and build something that Americans have long been calling for: stronger European defenses.
The world needs "responsible involvement" by the United States in international affairs, Mr. Chirac said in his remarks, which were warmly received by many other Europeans present.
"He spoke for me and for all Europeans on that," said Karl Kaiser, a German foreign policy expert who was an adviser to Gerhard Schroder, the German chancellor.
Mr. Chirac singled out the United States for only one moment of praise: "I salute their impressive economic and technological dynamism," he said at a gathering organized by the French International Relations Institute. "I deplore the present American diffidence in several major areas as a result of decisions by Congress. I wish the United States would once more take on all its responsibilities on the international scene, and as soon as possible. But the world is a fragile place. It won't wait."
The Socialist ministers of defense and foreign affairs also took a strongly Gaullist line this week. "For my part, I believe that since 1992 the word 'superpower' is no longer sufficient to describe the United States," Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine told the same audience on Wednesday. "That's why I use the term 'hyperpower,' which American media think is aggressive.
"Supposing Europeans really do want to become a power," Mr. Vedrine added, "the willingness of the United States to accept with anybody, and particularly with Europe, partnership that is anything but momentary or limited, and to move from unilateralism to multilateral ism, remains to be demonstrated. We would like to believe it. This question underlies the whole question of the European common foreign and defense policy.
"We cannot accept either a politically unipolar world, nor a culturally uniform world, nor the unilateralism of a single hyperpower," he added. "And that is why we are fighting for a multipolar, diversified and multilateral world."
Defense Minister Alain Richard, speaking of lessons the Europeans learned from Kosovo, where only the United States was quickly able to mass the sophisticated precision-guided weapons needed for the NATO bombing campaign, urged Europeans to cooperate and build forces for similar missions.
He and some other Europeans complain that the United States has been warning Europe against trying to build multilateral defenses that would duplicate the alliance's. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (88%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN STRATEGIC PORTFOLIO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (88%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



170 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Last Stand in Defense Of a Hollow's History

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: BLAIR, W.Va., Nov. 4

 BODY:
Jim Weekley, the last litigious man in Pigeon Roost hollow, warily awaited word from Washington about how the politicians were trying to get around his big court victory, which has put this state's coal mining industry and government establishment in a state of shock.
"Now, Senator Bobby Byrd's done a whole lot for this state, but Bobby Byrd's just like all our politicians here -- they're coal company men," said Mr. Weekley, a retired miner who chain-smoked watchfully in the autumnal glow of the hollow where his mother was born. 
 The hollow is a gentle valley containing 200 years of his family history. It is set amid a series of mountaintops that the coal industry targeted for decapitation with mammoth mining machinery -- "mountaintop removal" is the technical term. It is a technique of dynamiting and bulldozing that Senator Robert C. Byrd and the rest of the state Congressional delegation are now furiously defending in the name of the state's economic health. They are pressuring the Clinton administration and fighting to undo the stunning court victory over this high-tech strip-mining practice recently won by Mr. Weekley and a group of other homesteaders and environmentalists.
Unlike tens of thousands of others in hollows across Appalachia, Jim Weekley decided to rebuff the mining company's offers and cling to his seven-tenths-of-an-acre homestead as he saw this backwoods hamlet about 40 miles from Charleston shrink to 60 families from 200 when the mountaintops and hollows were bought for removal. In the face of gargantuan removal machinery that juts 20 stories above the horizon, Mr. Weekley became the holdout among his now departed hollow neighbors. He joined a public interest lawsuit to block the common mining practice of dumping the vast tons of dynamited waste from the obliterated mountaintops down into valleys just like his beloved Pigeon Roost hollow, where streams and woodland vistas are choked off and buried.
"I ran free in this hollow all my life," said Mr. Weekley, citing values different from the rich low-sulfur coal lying all about him up in the mountaintops. "The memories and the footsteps and the happiness we have had in the hollow. The six children we raised, the love tree where I courted my wife. This fight is not about money. It's about being for the future."
Chief Judge Charles H. Haden 2nd of United States District Court, a veteran Charleston jurist with a reputation for being conservative Republican in his outlook, shocked the state last month when he ruled for Mr. Weekley, the West Virginia Highlands Conservancy and a half-dozen other landholders. He found that the state had violated federal mining and clean water laws for years by permitting the blockage of hundreds of miles of vital valley streams with the mountaintop rubble.
"That judge came down my hollow to see what it was all about," Mr. Weekley proudly recalled even as he awaited word from Washington on the efforts to undo the ruling, which environmental lobbying groups have hailed as a landmark defense of antipollution law. As Mr. Weekley spoke, that lobby was in a tooth-and-claw struggle against the storied powers of Senator Byrd, the dean of Senate constitutionalists and leader of the state Congressional delegation.
The senator, who loves to revel in such home state glories as mountain fiddling, is alarmed that the state's mining economy and jobs are under threat from the court ruling. He is planning to block the decision by attaching a legislative rider to some final bill in the Congressional rush to end the session. "We have taken some reasoned steps toward ensuring the viability of the coal mining industry in our state," the delegation declared in an opinion essay prepared for Sunday newspapers.
But Joe Lovett, the lawyer who won the court decision in behalf of Mountain State Justice Inc., said that he had seen the rider and that it would plainly gut the court decision by eliminating the current laws' valley fill standards and buffer zone requirements for protecting streams -- strictures that Judge Haden found had clearly been ignored. The state delegation, which has declined to release details of its rider to the public, is insisting a way can be found to repair the problem while protecting both jobs and the environment.
"The White House is hedging," said Mr. Lovett, noting that under pressure from Senator Byrd, the administration has declined to repeat in this case its earlier unqualified warnings that the president will veto any late session bills that include anti-environmental riders. "My guess after eight years of watching this president is that he's not going to veto it," Mr. Lovett said pessimistically. He is concerned as well that any last-minute effort to compromise may also mean a weakened environmental law.
Environmental groups are watching Vice President Al Gore in particular because he is running for president on his pro-environment credentials. He has contended that the urgency of the issue was eased by Judge Haden's subsequent decision to stay the ruling pending an appeal. But environmental lobbyists, noting that the delegation is pursuing a rider to trump the appeals process, are dissatisfied that Mr. Gore has not explicitly guaranteed a presidential veto if the Byrd rider is passed.
"Gore's resolve does not seem so great," said Courtney Cuff, Washington legislative director for Friends of the Earth. "We fear they're going to talk the talk, but not walk the walk."
Here in the state, the coal industry, the miners union and virtually all government officials have attacked the court ruling as economically ruinous. Gov. Cecil H. Underwood, a Republican, ordered a hiring freeze and a 10 percent budget cut, steps that environmentalists say was part of a pro-industry panic scenario to help passage of the Byrd rider.
Ken Hechler, a Democrat who is West Virginia's secretary of state, accuses the White House of trying to finesse politics over principle in this struggle. Long a crusader against mountaintop removal, Mr. Hechler asserted that both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore had been "oblivious to the utter devastation" left by this rapid form of strip mining. Precious mountains in four coal-rich states of Appalachia are being reduced to "moonscapes" by a technique increasingly on the rise, Mr. Hechler warns. The industry points to showcase reclamation projects, but Mr. Hechler, grieving for lost nature, dismisses them as "lipstick on a corpse."
As he patrols Pigeon Roost hollow, Jim Weekley is pleased that by defending his family roots and memories on seven-tenths of an acre he has managed so far to block a huge plan for a mountaintop mining swath of 3,100 acres, a project that needed his hollow to go forward. He is not against mining, he emphasizes, speaking as a veteran of the old deep-shaft mines where, he says, the work could be lethal but at least a man knew that his labors below were not literally erasing his place in the hollow.
Mr. Weekley is angry that the politicians so concerned now about the environmental laws never really told their constituents about their provisions in the first place.
"Why didn't they tell the little guy?" he asked, studying the horizon and Washington beyond. "The companies sure knew, but what about the little guy in the hollows?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: His neighbors are gone, their land in West Virginia bought for mining, but Jim Weekley stands firm on his homestead in Pigeon Roost hollow. (Brian Ferguson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COAL INDUSTRY (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); COAL MINING (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); JUDGES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (61%); 

PERSON: ROBERT BYRD (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



171 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: Joined at the Stoop: Neighbors Till the End

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 6

 BODY:
Mornings begin on West Hagert Street at 7, when Dorsha Mason, 80, crippled and bent by phlebitis and arthritis, rises from bed in the row house of the North Philadelphia neighborhood where she has lived for more than half a century, inches her way across her living room with her walker and opens her front door.
Her neighbors do not have to worry; the open door says she has made it through another night. 
 Up and down the block, neighbors echo the signal. Across from Mrs. Mason, Rachel Lockhart, 83, opens her door, and so does Mary Little, 80, next to her, and Amanda Riley, 89, two doors down. On the corner, Katherine Jones, 66, opens hers.
They have lived side by side on this short block of red and white row houses, most of them, for 40 and 50 years. They raised their children together, and paid off their mortgages by scrubbing other people's floors or working in the factories that brought tens of thousands of black families here from the South.
They went to church together, singing in the choir and cooking for the needy. Through it all, they always made time for the neighborhood, organizing meetings and voter registration drives, sweeping the streets, planting prize-winning gardens.
Now, with failing hearts and aching backs, they are negotiating old age together in a neighborhood like other urban neighborhoods in Philadelphia, burdened by poverty, crime and years of neglect by the city.
"We're all deteriorating," said Mrs. Mason, who has outlived two husbands. Wearing a flowered satin robe and receiving visitors on a hospital bed that she keeps in her dining room, she threw back her silvery hair and laughed. "And I'm the chief deteriorator."
Though West Hagert Street is considered relatively safe, many residents have installed triple locks and security bars. Mrs. Riley still takes a morning walk, but on the advice of a neighbor she has adjusted her route to avoid drug dealers on 20th Street.
"There's some rough spots," Mrs. Riley acknowledged. But she does not focus on the drug dealers any more than she does on the arthritis that racks her body. The neighborhood, she said, is not unlike her life: "I assume there's going to be rough spots."
Mrs. Riley and her neighbors, like most older Americans, are staying put, not moving to retirement communities. "Don't move me from this block," declared Mrs. Riley, who still recalls her elation when she and her husband and their two teenage sons moved in on May 20, 1950.
But unlike many retirees, Mrs. Riley and her elderly neighbors, with a few exceptions, could not move if they wanted to. As hard as they have worked to maintain their row houses, painting regularly and keeping up with repairs, they have, in a sense, outlived the neighborhood. They would be lucky to sell their homes for $20,000, they say. Where could they move with that?
"Our younger people don't want our houses," said Geraldine Cade, 74, who has spent 42 years on West Glenwood Avenue, a block over from West Hagert. "They don't want to live around the neighborhood. They want an apartment or a condo."
Mrs. Cade and her neighbors hang on in row houses that were not built for the old. The bathrooms are on the second floor, up 15 steps. They all know the number; after knee-replacement surgery, said Theodosia Golson, 73, "I crawled up those steps."
They make do with Social Security and modest pensions. They are sustained, they say, by their faith in God. The traveling they do is mostly to church and back. At night they stay home, listening to the radio, watching television and reading their Bibles.
And they look to each other. These neighbors were all specializing in assisted living -- the informal, unpaid kind -- long before developers began using the term to attract the affluent elderly.
At 83, Rachel Lockhart is still working, taking care of other people's children, but in her free time she bakes pound cakes and casseroles for people on the block.
Raymond Hodge, 79, who lives on Glenwood Street, is not giving rides the way he used to -- his car is too old, he says, and the windows have been broken and the tags stolen -- but he says he is available in a pinch.
Mrs. Riley, at 89 the oldest resident on the block, takes care of her 87-year-old brother, Arthur Hemphill, who had a stroke in June, and she still helps sweep the street.
Mrs. Mason, who worked as a procurement clerk, purchasing agent and negotiator for the Navy, says she retired as block captain and president of the neighborhood association, but she still does the jobs. She is too crippled to pick up cigarette butts on the street as she once did, but she pays a neighborhood man, Harry Gathers, a few dollars to do the job for her.
Mr. Gathers, 50, is one of Mrs. Mason's projects. "Harry has a problem with self-esteem," she said. "Mrs. Riley and I are working with Harry."
According to the 1990 census, nearly 20 percent of the neighborhood's residents were 60 or older, and 3 out of every 10 of those lived at the poverty level. Social workers say some residents make do on Social Security checks of $500 a month. It is not the easiest neighborhood to live in at any age.
The grocery on the corner is gone, in its place a vacant lot. There is a new Pathmark grocery, part of a rebuilding effort, but it is eight long blocks away, along a busy avenue, past abandoned buildings and more vacant lots.
A nearby drugstore also closed, and residents complain that a chain drugstore five blocks up the hill is expensive. One benefit to living in the city, though, is that a bus line passes through the neighborhood, and people 65 and older ride free.
To outsiders, the landscape of vacant lots and abandoned buildings define one vast North Philadelphia zone.
But Mrs. Mason said of her neighborhood, once so well tended that even after whites left and factories began to close, it was known as Upper Society Hill: "This is not a ghetto. This is a place where people worked hard to build a community."
Unemployment is high, but the neighborhood is home to nurses, teachers and accountants. Mrs. Mason does not have children, but she does have plenty of nieces, nephews and cousins who visit regularly. Mrs. Riley's son Charles, 67, a retired machinery painter, has moved back home to help his mother.
A block away, James Golson Jr., a high school principal in New Jersey, has returned to Boston Avenue with his wife and their 6-year-old daughter so he can keep an eye on his parents, James and Theodosia, who live four doors away in the house where they raised their five children.
Mr. Golson Sr., 84, a retired Navy cook, is a rarity in the neighborhood. "Most of the husbands have died," Mrs. Mason said.
Half of the members of the neighborhood association's board have also died. Mrs. Little had to give up her post as secretary because of palsy in her hands. The remaining members do not meet nearly as often as they used to, but when Mrs. Mason gets on the phone and calls them together, as she did the other week, they are at her door promptly at the appointed hour, bringing chairs and homemade cakes.
"It's not where you live," Mrs. Mason said, directing the meeting from her bed, "it's how you live where you live."
Mrs. Mason moved to the block with her husband in 1943, and when Mrs. Riley arrived seven years later, Mrs. Mason was one of the first people at her door.
"She introduced herself as the block captain," Mrs. Riley said. "She said what we all were expected to do. Meetings were going to be at her house, and we're going to keep the block clean."
They didn't just keep the block clean; with help from Philadelphia Green, a nonprofit gardening program, they planted trees and gardens. "Everywhere you had a pot, or a tire, or whatever would hold dirt, it would have flowers in it," recalled Mrs. Riley, who grew up on a farm in Rock Hill, S.C.
Mrs. Mason's scrapbooks are filled with photographs of the flowers that year after year won top prizes from the Pennsylvania Horticultural Society. There is also a 1972 newspaper clipping describing West Hagert Street, with its gardens and community pride, as "the essence of what urban living can be for the ordinary citizen who can't afford Society Hill."
Mrs. Mason organized children to help sweep the streets. She ran an after-school program in her living room. When drugs arrived in the late 80's, Mrs. Mason and her neighbors formed a community watch. Mrs. Mason patrolled the streets with an elderly neighbor, Ora Lee Camp, who lived on 20th Street.
"We came out at 11 p.m. and walked the block till 5 a.m.," Mrs. Mason recalled. "We had nerve. You had to have nerve to do this job."
Back then, Mrs. Mason was in her 70's and on crutches.
Despite all those efforts, the neighborhood declined. There were drug-related killings on Opal Street. Several houses burned. One morning Grace Skinner, 77, who lives in the row house where she was raised, found two bullet holes in her windshield. The flowers were stolen. Many residents and businesses fled.
Mrs. Mason and her aging neighbors stayed.
"They figured out how to survive with each other," said Kim Camp, the daughter of Ora Lee Camp, who died two years ago at age 74.
"Before direct deposit, they would rob people coming out of the bank," she said, so the neighbors would all go to the bank together.
The question now is how much longer these neighbors can carry on.
The other afternoon Mrs. Mason was maneuvering from Mrs. Carter's car to the sidewalk and up the five steps to her front door. Back from one of her regular hospital visits, she had neighborhood business to tend to. "Mrs. Dugue needs help," she said.
Dolores Dugue, 77, who lives across the street, had broken her ankle on her stairs the night before. And she could not afford to be laid up; she is taking care of three great-grandchildren. Her granddaughter, Mrs. Dugue said, died of a drug overdose last spring.
Mrs. Mason telephoned Mary Cook, the 70-year-old volunteer social worker at St. Martin de Porres, the neighborhood Catholic parish. Fifteen minutes later, Mrs. Cook was at Mrs. Dugue's bedside.
Mrs. Mason turns 81 on Nov. 17. "I retired in 1995," she keeps telling people. "I'm too old to keep doing this."
Mrs. Cook worried aloud: "Who's going to take over after Mrs. Mason?"
People in the neighborhood ask the same question. Mrs. Cade apologizes for not being able to keep up the community garden the way she used to; her arthritis makes bending over painful.
One of Mrs. Mason's protegees, Kim Camp, is trying to start her own business and it is hard to get to neighborhood meetings, said Ms. Camp, who is 43.
"I don't know how they did it," she said of her mother and Mrs. Mason and the others. "I sit in awe. I don't know where they got their energy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Amanda Riley, 89, paused recently at a vacant house on her block in North Philadelphia. Residents have created an informal support network to negotiate old age in an area beset by poverty and crime. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 32); Geraldine Cade, right, and Dorsha Mason look out for each other in their neighborhood in North Philadelphia. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AGING (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (87%); FAMILY (77%); CITY LIFE (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); GARDENING (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); CITIES (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (51%); 

PERSON: AMANDA RILEY (92%); HARRY GATHERS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



172 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3212 words

HEADLINE: Siblings' Lives Trace a U.S.-German Divide

SERIES: ONE EUROPE, 10 YEARS: Different Paths

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: WITTENBERG, Germany

 BODY:
On March 15, 1960, an 18-year-old German girl and her younger brother boarded a train here to escape East German Communism for the West. But the police were patrolling and the girl, convinced they could not make it together, pushed the boy off the train as it started to move.
"Police were asking me who I was, where I was going, why I was traveling, and I realized we were too suspicious as a pair," said Heidi Boettcher, now an American citizen. "My brother was just 16. I was sure he would join me later." 
 But the nudge that left the boy, Hans Schulz-Netzer, marooned at Wittenberg station 17 months before the Berlin Wall went up led to permanently divided lives. One has long lived in the Soviet bloc, the other in rural Missouri. By the time the wall fell a decade ago, Hans and Heidi stood at opposite poles in the basic post-cold-war debate of Western societies.
That debate no longer concerns the merits of capitalism, a system without ideological rival since Communism collapsed. Rather, it centers on the differing European and American views of how far capitalism should be regulated in order to cushion people from the harshness of market forces.
A German without job prospects, Hans favors enveloping social protection. An American with a convert's zeal, Heidi wants "the government out of my face." Hans sees his sister as "way over to the political right." Heidi views her brother as the victim of a German system "that still assumes people are so dumb they need to be taken care of."
German unification without German neutrality was a great Western achievement, but the economic toll was also great. Over the past decade, the decision to extend state pensions, unemployment benefits and all West Germany's social programs to 17 million new citizens has precipitated a crisis in Europe's largest welfare state.
Put simply, a once envied "social market" model is now carrying more weight than it can bear. Mr. Schulz-Netzer, 56, is part of the burden. He has been collecting about $825 a month in unemployment benefits for the past two years. His wife, Karin, 55, gets another $600. Karin's daughter, also unemployed, receives some more.
That money has to come from somewhere, free lunches being as scarce in Germany as anywhere else. The taxes and charges needed to finance all the social cushioning have pushed up wage costs and so deterred hiring. Long Europe's engine, Germany has stalled, unable to dent 10 percent unemployment.
This crisis does not surprise Mrs. Boettcher, 58, who is married to a farmer in Missouri, a state with a 4 percent unemployment rate. "If you want to work, I don't give a damn, you find work," she said, laughing. "But Germans are sheep. Why should my brother think for himself if money is being thrown at him?"
Having raised 11 children since arriving in the United States in 1961, she has now started a small business -- a day nursery for infants. Charging a daily rate of $11 a child and on the move from morning to night, she makes a little more than her brother's family receives from the German state for doing nothing.
It is tempting to see in Mrs. Boettcher's dynamism and her German brother's passivity facile symbols of American vitality and German self-doubt, of the vigor of the New World and late middle age of the Old. But the divisions of the post-cold-war era are more nuanced than that.
Germans in general reject unmitigated "Americanization"; if that is the sum of cold war victory, they tend to say, no thanks. To the millions of American jobs created this decade, some respond that Germany has free health care, free universities, smaller prison populations, no homeless: capitalism tempered by equity.
"We could benefit a lot by being more American," said Norbert Walter, chief economist for Deutsche Bank. "We should apply the market economy instead of being a museum of Western socialism. But Americans only need to take a look at their inner cities to see they might also learn a little from Europe."
A decade after the fall of the Berlin Wall, this debate is coming to a boil. Time has run out; Finance Minister Hans Eichel said recently that the German model was "finished." But a look at the lives of Heidi Boettcher, American immigrant, and her brother suggests that trans-Atlantic accord will prove elusive on how much state-directed compassion global capitalism needs.
 
The Right Qualities For Assimilation
Germans make good Americans. Between 1820 and 1996, 7.1 million Germans immigrated to the United States -- more than from any other nation. The desire to forget an often painful past, honesty and thoroughness, a practical bent -- many Germans share these qualities, and they have made absorption easier.
Certainly Mrs. Boettcher looks the part. With one infant on her back, another in her arms, she exudes a ready friendliness that speaks of 38 American years. Her manner is easygoing to the point that even 10 children under 4 in her new home in Altenburg, Mo. (population 256) seem manageable.
So the darkness of the story she tells -- punctuated by the contented squeals of little Americans -- is doubly shocking.
Like many Germans of her generation, Heidi grew up fatherless. Like most Germans, she suffered. Her father, Karl Schulz-Netzer, was captured by the Americans and held in St. Louis. On his return to Germany after the war, he filed for divorce.
Her parents and her country split at the same time. Age 4 when the war ended in 1945, Heidi fell into the Communist world. She recalls her mother cutting up a blanket to make pants for her and her brother. The garden yielded bare subsistence.
Living in a rural area, she saw Communist doctrine at work. Land was taken over by the state, farmers put to work eight hours a day and granted a month's vacation. But holidays were scant compensation for expropriation.
Wheat sometimes grew "to the ceiling" because nobody could be bothered to harvest it, she recalls. A first lesson in Communism's effect on motivation: nobody wants to herd the state's sheep.
Care packages sent from the United States by distant cousins, the Degenhardts, provided the only relief. The family had emigrated to Missouri in the 1870's. For the young girl, sweet Hershey bars and succulent lard constituted America's first lure.
A good athlete, Heidi was sent at 17 to the German high school of physical culture in Leipzig, training ground for many East German Olympic gold medalists. In this palace of high socialism, indoctrination moved into high gear. But Heidi was more marked by rationing than revolution. If the latter produced the former, how good could it be?
"When I turned 18," she said, "I was nominated to join the party. It was, of course, the greatest honor. The only problem was, I didn't believe in Communism. I'd already decided it works fine on paper, but in reality people need incentives."
Her own incentive became escape. With the Berlin Wall not yet built in 1960 -- it would go up the next year -- thousands were leaving every week. It was enough to get to Berlin and board a subway to a Western sector. But movement into the capital was tightly controlled.
At the end of a vacation at home in Teuchel, an outlying district of Wittenberg, Heidi feigned sickness to put off return to school and decided to take a train to Berlin, a little over an hour away. She went to the station with her little brother, Hans, who kept saying that he wanted to go with her.
They boarded the train; Hans, she recalls, clung to her. But he was only 16, without qualifications, and, seeing the police, she urged him to get off. In the end she had to prod him as the train lurched forward.
"I thought I'd never make it," she said, "and I was already wondering what prison would be like. The police cornered me between two cars and kept grilling me. And then, for the first time in a long time, I thought of my father."
A visit to her long-lost father: that was the reason for her journey to Berlin. An older policeman -- about her father's age -- listened to the girl's story of estrangement. How she wanted to see her dad now after so many years. Then, abruptly, after 45 minutes, he smiled and ordered the interrogation ended, saying, "Have a nice trip."
The voyage would be long. It took her, that night, to West Berlin: a first Coke, refugee camps, her first 10 West German marks for giving blood. On to Hanover, then Bavaria, and training as a nurse.
Freedom was real; it was also lonely. She wrote to the Degenhardts, who invited her to join them in Missouri. The Berlin Wall had gone up in August 1961. A few weeks later, on Sept. 22, she flew to the United States.
Her road took her from Wittenberg, Saxony-Anhalt, to Wittenberg, Mo., where the Degenhardts lived. It was one long traveled by Germans. The American Wittenberg was founded in 1839 by about 700 Lutherans who sailed to the United States after leaving the town where Martin Luther nailed his explosive theses to the church door.
Wittenberg, on the banks of the Mississippi, is now a ghost town, destroyed in the flood of 1993. But in Altenburg, a parish founded at the same time on higher ground, all is neatly ordered around the Lutheran church. Boxes contain pretty floral arrangements and American-flag pennants.
In this area, in a tightknit, church-dominated community, Heidi quickly felt at home. What struck her was the absence of fences, the unlocked doors, the friendliness, the positiveness. A place free of the shadow of bad German history.
 
Eleven Children, Without State Support
Soon she met Albert Boettcher, known as Junior, president of the Lutheran youth association, descendant of Germans who had moved to the area in the 1920's, proud owner of a 1960 Chevy. They were married in 1963.
"Heidi was always a wild one," Mr. Boettcher said. "That's why she got out and her brother stayed: a question of spirit. She swam the Mississippi twice, you know, and that's about a mile. Always she hated authority, regulations, doctors, hospitals, pills. So we just went right ahead and enjoyed nature."
To such effect that the Boettchers had 11 children between 1964 and 1984 on their 100-acre Altenburg farm. In Germany, this would have provided them with something close to a living. The state pays "Kindergeld," or child money, for every child regardless of parents' income, to encourage child-bearing and support families.
At a rate of 250 marks per child for the first two children, 300 for the third, and 350 for each subsequent one, the Boettchers would have been entitled to about $2,000 a month from German authorities.
In the United States they received nothing. "I never could bring myself to sit in a county office and ask for some handout like food stamps," Mrs. Boettcher said. "I know where that kind of thing leads."
All the family ever accepted was free school lunches during a two-year period. Like more than 15 percent of Americans, they never even had medical insurance. They did not want it, and the children were generally healthy. When one daughter was sick and hospitalized, they raised $3,000 through a collection in the church.
"We're not the German sheep yet," Mr. Boettcher said, "although we're trying to play catch-up with President Hillary's universal health care. More taxes and more programs will kill this country."
The hypothetical has scant value in history, but Mr. Schulz-Netzer dwells on it. The Berlin Wall went up on Aug. 13, 1961; he qualified as a mechanic 15 days later. That qualification was what he had been waiting for to join his sister in the West.
"My handicap was the wall," he said, sitting drinking a beer, his gaze distant. "If it had gone up three weeks later, I would be with Heidi. But fate wanted me here." And what of his sister's nudge on the train? "At that time, I don't think I was ready to go, anyway," he said.
For 16 years after his birth in 1943, the two grew up in the same Wittenberg home. But they are so different now, shaped by opposing cultures, that this shared past seems infinitely remote.
He is full of the caution, the fatalism, the unspoken fears of Germany; she seems to have been freed of them by a wide-open continent. "In God We Trust," says the dollar bill, but Germans have every reason to be suspicious of God's benevolence.
In a sense, its past explains the country's social safety net. In West Germany, after hyperinflation and Hitler, social cohesion was worth almost any price. In the East, free day care centers and visits by doctors and dentists to schools were billed as the gifts of socialism; they also helped secure compliance to a police state.
But the world has changed. Germany has ceased to be the treacherous epicenter of the cold war. It desperately needs more risk-taking: 8.4 percent of the American adult population has started a business, against 2.2 percent in Germany.
But the country's essential difficulty since 1989 has been in convincing people it might be worthwhile to trade some of the old and no-longer-affordable security for the rewards of risk.
Certainly Mr. Schulz-Netzer seems stuck with the old habits. Can-do is not his motto. For decades he worked in a state company repairing increasingly obsolete buses. It was dull, repetitive and secure.
"You'd roll up on Monday morning with a headful of alcohol and know nothing would happen," he said. "It was written right there in the East German Constitution: every man and woman has the right and obligation to work."
And, where possible, work the angles. From time to time, Mr. Schulz-Netzer would be called into his boss's office and some prominent Communist Party leader would be there needing his car repaired. On the black, for a quiet payment.
Mr. Schulz-Netzer was happy to oblige. Over the years they flocked to him: party officials, police, state security agents.
"They were all so stiff and formal in their official roles," he said, "and then they'd show up at my place and be quite sympathetic."
East Germans called such angles their "Lebenstrategie" -- "life strategy" for making a bad system bearable. And so, Mr. Schulz-Netzer said, people were lulled. "We get used to things," he said, shrugging. "We had movies, we had television, we had cars of a sort, and we even had our own little Florida on the Baltic."
Was anything missing? He pondered the question for some time. "Well, we had no incentive to be self-sufficient."
Through his acquaintances with party officials, he secured permission to use his moonlighting money to build a house on land next to his mother's home.
He had to request official approval for the purchase of each hinge, each doorknob, each tap -- but over a six-year period he got the job done. That bungalow, completed in 1982, is now his pride and security.
Other security evaporated when the wall fell in 1989. The car company struggled through various incarnations before closing in 1997, leaving Mr. Schulz-Netzer without a job -- like 21.7 percent of adults in Saxony-Anhalt, whose population of 2.7 million is about half that of Missouri (although in area Missouri, half the size of Germany itself, dwarfs Saxony-Anhalt).
"It's simple in this society," he said. "If you're over 40, nobody wants you." He has sent out hundreds of job applications, without luck. Garages, he says, do not want to hire a master mechanic when they can employ a youth for half the price.
Of course, when the wall came down, he had the option of turning his informal domestic workshop into a real enterprise. He thought seriously about it. "But I was 46, and I would have had to go into debt to be competitive," he said. "It seemed like too much risk, especially as I have no sons who could inherit the business."
So he has been living on handouts instead and awaiting a monthly pension of over $1,000, which begins at 60 if he opts for a slightly lower payment than he would receive at the official retirement age of 65. As of next month, he will be on a one-year state program that will put him to work at odd jobs like cleaning cemeteries.
A few years ago Karin Schulz-Netzer, who lost her seamstress job in 1991, got an early pension after convincing authorities that she was psychologically troubled.
"We live all right on our 2,400 marks a month," Mr. Schulz-Netzer said. "I garden, I potter around. I worked for 34 years. This money we get is money we have earned by paying taxes."
 
Strangers Too Scared 'To Do Anything'
In 1991, two years after the wall fell, Mr. and Mrs. Schulz-Netzer traveled to the United States for the first time. In New York they missed their connection, and spent one terrified night in a hotel, not daring to telephone or even urinate.
"American toilets are different," Mr. Schulz-Netzer explained. "The water level is higher, and so we were worried about a flood."
His sister could not believe it. "That is the fear the Communist system engendered," Mrs. Boettcher said. "They were scared to pee, to sleep, to phone, to do anything."
After this trauma, the reunion in Altenburg was a happy one. But there was no meeting of the minds. They visited Chicago, and Mr. Schulz-Netzer was appalled by the homeless people he saw. He was also troubled by the restlessness of Americans. "It's slower here in Germany, and I like that."
Mrs. Boettcher says that sometimes she feels she does not even recognize her brother. She cannot imagine not working and derives major satisfaction from baby-sitting. "I keep the kids happy, I am doing something," she said. "And I get paid."
Her husband, now 72, also works hard. Apart from the farm, he is active in bovine artificial insemination. His record, he said, is 2,600 cows bred in a single year. "It's great business," he said.
By almost any estimate, business is better in Missouri than Saxony-Anhalt. The discrepancy between a 4 percent and a 21.7 percent unemployment rate tells much of the story. In Missouri, wage costs are about half the German level.
But a central conundrum of European-American relations is that the American success story of the 1990's may not be exportable, any more than Mr. Schulz-Netzer can be convinced that his sister's active American life is better than his own state-supported existence.
As Mr. Walter of Deutsche Bank put it: "One thing about Germany today, and much of Europe, is that if you want to achieve something, change something, don't say it's the American way. There's an allergy to American triumphalism."
But a decade after unification, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder has not yet found another way to convey a reform message that resonates. A united Germany continues to live beyond its means. There are 46 pensioners for every 100 active workers today; in 2030 there will be 96 pensioners for every 100.
But of course 2030 is still 30 years away. "We like the social line here," said Mr. Schulz-Netzer said. "In fact, in many ways, we thought of the old regime as good."
 
One Europe, 10 Years
This article is part of a series examining Europe a decade after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Previous articles have looked at Vaclav Havel, the Czech dissident who helped bring down the wall, as well as the troubles that unification has brought to Germany and the shifting relationships between East European countries 10 years after the fall of Communism.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: WORLDS APART -- Heidi with Hans in Germany in 1946, above, and Heidi in Missouri recently with her husband, Junior Boettcher, holding a photo of their 14 grandchildren. "Heidi was always a wild one," says her husband. "That's why she got out and her brother stayed: a question of spirit." (Bill Stover for The New York Times)(pg. 12); A FAMILY ASUNDER -- Heidi Schulz-Netzer and her brother, Hans, above in East Germany in 1959, were separated a year later. At right, the two today. (Mark Simon for The New York Times); (Bill Stover for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Map of Europe highlighting Wittenberg, Germany: With a push, a Missouri-bound sister parted company with her brother in Germany. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (94%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COLD WAR (78%); TRAINS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); MAMMALS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); 

PERSON: HEIDI BOETTCHER (93%); HANS SCHULZ-NETZER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



173 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VERSUS MICROSOFT: THE HORIZON;
Microsoft's Horizon

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
For more than a year, the Microsoft Corporation has been untarnished on Wall Street and on Main Street from the government's relentless antitrust assault on the company. But suddenly, it may begin feeling some pain as investors and the computer industry consider the likely impact of the blow delivered on Friday evening by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson.
The judge, who is deciding the antitrust case without a jury, took a defining first step toward a verdict, with findings of fact that concluded that Microsoft was a monopoly whose bullying tactics had hurt consumers and the economy by stifling innovation in the computer industry. 
 With that conclusion, Judge Jackson set the stage for an eventual ruling against the software giant and remedies that could be as extreme as a breakup of the company.
The Microsoft Corporation has not known this kind of threat to its business or public image in the 18 months since the government filed its antitrust suit.
At the trial in Washington, Microsoft was pummeled with harsh accusations of corporate misconduct and incriminating evidence. Its every embarrassing slip-up in the courtroom was chronicled daily in the news media.
Yet Wall Street shrugged it all off as an irrelevant sideshow. Microsoft's stock price kept climbing, minting more Microsoft millionaires and ensuring that William H. Gates 3rd continued to extend his lead as the world's richest person. And polls of public opinion have shown that the favorable reputation of Mr. Gates and his company have been untarnished by its antitrust battle with the government.
But on Friday night, in late after-hours trading after Judge Jackson's findings were made public, Microsoft's stock price fell sharply, down as much as $5 from $91.5625. David Readerman, an investment banker who studies the company, says he expects Microsoft's shares to drop early this week, though by no more than 10 percent. Still, a 10 percent decline would erase $47 billion in the wealth of Microsoft shareholders.
"It won't be a wipeout," said Mr. Readerman, a managing director at Thomas Weisel Partners in San Francisco. "Microsoft is still a great growth story. But not only the Department of Justice but also now a federal judge feel that some of that growth was acquired improperly."
Mr. Readerman added: "The findings of fact by a United States federal judge are a serious thing, and now it's out. It's new information, and it's not pretty reading."
A judge's findings of fact are not a ruling, but they set the framework for the outcome of the case -- a legal judgment or an out-of-court settlement.
And now, the industry and investors will begin thinking seriously about remedies the government might seek. With Judge Jackson's one-sided findings, even sanctions that had seemed extreme -- like breaking up the company -- now seem to be back on the table.
On Wall Street, Mr. Readerman noted, bankers will surely be doing spreadsheet calculations on the value of Microsoft if it is broken up into separate companies. The division most often mentioned would create three companies: one with Microsoft's industry-standard Windows operating systems, a second with its office productivity software and a third with its Internet and electronic commerce products. Many bankers have said they believe that if the court splits up Microsoft -- just as the government forced the breakup of Standard Oil earlier this century -- the company's value would actually increase.
Within the industry, there is a debate about the restraining influence, if any, that the antitrust case has already had on Microsoft. Any waning in Microsoft's power over the last year has resulted mainly from the evolution of technology, as the Internet gradually erodes the role of the personal computer as the center of gravity in computing.
The case has certainly not slowed Microsoft's aggressive investment program in new businesses -- especially its taking stakes in cable television and telecommunications companies, as their networks become increasingly important to the future of the computer industry. Microsoft made the latest such investment on Friday, announcing that it was putting $200 million in Teligent Inc., a supplier of wireless phone and data services.
Still, there is a sense in the industry that Microsoft has become more careful in its business dealings since the antitrust case began. Judge Jackson's powerful findings of fact, industry executives say, should bring further self-restraint.
"Before this case, Microsoft would make sure you lost," said William R. Hearst 3rd, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a leading Silicon Valley venture capital firm. "Now, you have to lose on your own." In earlier rounds of settlement talks, Microsoft showed a willingness to loosen its contracts with personal computer makers, including opening up its secret "marketing development agreements." Judge Jackson found that these contracts provided price incentives for companies that favored Microsoft's software products and punished companies that did not. Microsoft, according to people close to the talks, also offered to publish the pricing lists, adjusted for volume sales, for its licensing agreements with personal computer makers like Compaq, Dell, Gateway and I.B.M.
But the company has fiercely resisted any suggestion that it must be forced to give companies wide-ranging access to its fundamental software technology or allow them to modify it.
"We take the simple-minded view that it is our intellectual property, we made it, it's our song, and you should play it our way," explained William Neukom, Microsoft's general counsel.
The government accused Microsoft of using access to its Windows technology as another tool to reward allies and punish rivals. Without that access, other software products will not run smoothly on Microsoft's Windows operating systems.
Regardless of the government accusations or the judge's findings, Microsoft believes that the case law protecting intellectual property strongly supports its stance. And while the company would find it difficult, if not impossible, to appeal Judge Jackson's findings of fact, an appeal can be built around legal precedents.
In any settlement talks, it is Microsoft's concept of intellectual property protection that is the biggest obstacle, according to antitrust scholars. "Anything that suggests compulsory access to its technology is poison to Microsoft," said William Kovacic, a professor at the George Washington University Law School.
For Microsoft, the great incentive to settle would be to sidestep an actual verdict declaring the company a monopoly. That could open the floodgates to rounds of private antitrust suits because proving that a company is a monopoly is often the most costly, time-consuming hurdle. Being a monopoly is not illegal in itself. But if a federal court has ruled Microsoft to be a monopoly, that hurdle has been overcome for all subsequent antitrust litigation.
Since Judge Jackson's findings of fact are not a final ruling, a settlement would presumably erase the monopoly finding.
"Taking that off the table is the biggest carrot the government has to offer Microsoft," said Herbert Hovenkamp, a professor at the University of Iowa College of Law.
On the other hand, Judge Jackson's findings of fact come down so strongly on the government's side, it gives Microsoft little room to compromise and thus little incentive to settle. Instead, it may well hope to win the case on appeal, which could end up before the Supreme Court and last until 2002.
For the government, there is perhaps one incentive to try to reach a settlement.
"Despite the finding coming down strongly on the government's side," said David Yoffie, a Harvard Business School professor, "there is one additional reason for it to seek a settlement: we have a Presidential election next year. And a new administration in Washington could change a lot in its thinking and approach to the Microsoft case." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (96%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); JUDGES (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); EVIDENCE (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); VERDICTS (76%); MISCONDUCT (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); SECURITIES TRADING (64%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



174 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-17
 
Ground War in Kosovo Was Closer Than It Seemed
The United States came much closer to a ground war in Kosovo than is commonly understood, despite President Clinton's stated intention not to deploy troops, according to senior government officials from the United States, Britain, Germany, Italy, France, Finland and Yugoslavia. 6 

Tough Stance on Chechnya
Russian generals are pressing publicly for an all-out military victory against the Chechen rebels, and in unusually strident fashion warning politicians to get out of the way. 10
 
Australia Votes for Queen
A mismatched coalition of political opposites soundly defeated a move to end the symbolic rule of the British monarchy in Australia, even though that is clearly what most Australians want. 4
 
Colombia Peace Effort Gains
With startling swiftness and a sense of civic commitment rarely seen in Colombia, an organized mass peace movement is suddenly becoming an important new force in efforts to negotiate an end to civil conflict after 35 years. 15
 
Bridge In Kosovo Sabotaged
Saboteurs tried to blow up a railway bridge in northern Kosovo on Friday hours before a train carrying about 400 Serbs was due to cross it, the international peacekeeping force in Kosovo said. (Reuters)
 
Pakistani Names Cabinet
Pakistan's military ruler swore in a new cabinet of technocrats, who face an uphill battle to revive the economy and maintain popular support since overthrowing the country's elected government last month. (Agence France-Presse)
 
NATIONAL 18-36
 
Conservative Leaders Rally Abortion Foes for Bush
Fearful that Gov. George W. Bush's stand on abortion could cost him crucial support, conservative leaders are working to persuade their followers to put aside misgivings and rally behind the Texas governor. Mr. Bush opposes abortion, but has said he would not use it as a "litmus test" for judicial nominees. 1
 
Five Killings Shake Denver
Since early September, five homeless men have been found beaten to death and two others have been assaulted in Denver, prompting fear and an offer of $100,000 from an anonymous donor for information leading to the arrest and prosecution of those responsible. 18
 
'I Have a Dream' Suit Revived
Reversing a lower court's decision, a federal appellate court has revived a lawsuit by heirs of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. who say CBS violated copyright laws by broadcasting portions of his "I Have a Dream" speech without permission. 20
 
Gore Effort Thrives in Nashville
By moving his campaign headquarters from Washington to Nashville, Vice President Al Gore has achieved his hope for a "leaner campaign." 26
 
Wall Street Lures War Chests
Some members of Congress are investing donations to their re-election campaigns in the stock market, with mixed results. 26
 
Microsoft Vows to Fight On
One day after a federal judge issued a sweeping denunciation of the company, finding that it was a monopoly that had repeatedly sought to bully its competition, Microsoft's message remains the same: We did nothing wrong. 33
 
NEW YORK/REGION 37-44
 
New York to Toughen Auto Emissions Standards
Governor Pataki will impose new state vehicle emissions standards that are more stringent than federal requirements, a step expected to help push the entire auto industry to develop lower-pollution cars, trucks and vans. With California already enforcing the standards, and Massachusetts expected to follow suit, the decision could, in effect, set a new national standard. The three states account for a fourth of the national automobile market. 1
 
Baby Slain in 1979 Found
A 60-year-old Brooklyn woman was charged with murder after the body of her daughter, dead since 1979, was discovered in a foot locker in a closet of her home. Detectives discovered the body of the 3- or 4-year-old daughter on Friday after receiving a tip, the police said. 37
 
Piety and Parking in Flushing
Hindus, Muslims, Methodists, Jews and Buddhists all have places of worship around Bowne Street in Queens. The street, named for a Colonial-era icon of religious freedom, is a place of tolerance, except when it comes to parking and traffic. 37
 
OBITUARIES 46-47
 
Charlotte Perriand
The French designer who created furniture with Le Corbusier in the 1920's and 30's and was rediscovered late in life, she was 96. 47
 
Chess 44
 
Weather 44
 
Cong.Vote 41 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ITALY (73%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ITALY (73%); TEXAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LITIGATION (85%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BRITISH MONARCHS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); COPYRIGHT LAW (69%); ABORTION (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); HOMICIDE (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); JUDGES (64%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); ARRESTS (50%); COPYRIGHT (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



175 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 8; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
In Hindsight, Mets Made the Best and Worst Trades of Last Off Season

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
The off-season had hardly begun when the Texas Rangers traded Juan Gonzalez to the Detroit Tigers. Last off-season only one player of that magnitude, Roger Clemens, was traded. The Gonzalez deal last week could be the harbinger of a whole string of swaps involving major players.
With general managers convening today in Dana Point, Calif., for their annual week of meetings, five weeks ahead of baseball's winter meetings, talk will be plentiful. Some of it -- maybe much of it -- will be fanciful. The spiciest topics of conversation will be Ken Griffey Jr., Shawn Green, Carlos Delgado and maybe Alex Rodriguez and Manny Ramirez. 
 But before the general managers start tossing too many names and bodies around, this would be a good time to look back at their efforts a year ago and see which trades worked well and which failed.
Trades made during the winter of 1998-99 can be judged on the impact they had on the teams or on their one-sided nature. Obviously, when minor league prospects were included in a deal, it can't be judged on the long term until the prospects establish themselves or fail to make it.
On the basis of 1999 results, the Mets, the Cincinnati Reds and the Arizona Diamondbacks made the trades that had the greatest impact on their success. The Pittsburgh Pirates made the trade that produced the best performance in relation to what they gave up. The trade that produced the worst results for both sides involved the Mets and the Los Angeles Dodgers.
The Dodgers were also on the wrong side of the most one-sided trade, as developments would show. It was made Dec. 1 and was a three-team transaction between the Mets, Dodgers and Orioles in which the Mets acquired Armando Benitez and Roger Cedeno and gave up Todd Hundley.
Cedeno was a revelation to the Mets, hitting .313 and stealing 66 bases. Benitez, firing his demon fastball past batters, assumed the closer's role after John Franco was injured and played a major role in the team's drive, albeit tortured, to the playoffs. Benitez finished with 22 saves, a 1.85 earned run average, a .148 opponents' batting average and 128 strikeouts in 78 innings.
Because the Mets had a $91 million catcher in Mike Piazza, they sought to shed Hundley. The Dodgers took him. In addition to Cedeno, they gave up Charles Johnson, a good defensive catcher, in the trade, and expected a productive catcher to play in his place. But Hundley batted .207 and struck out 113 times in 114 games. His 24 home runs were not enough to overcome the hitting deficiencies. His throwing still suffered from an elbow operation in September 1997: opponents stole 107 bases against him in 139 attempts.
The trade took just one week to put together, Steve Phillips, the Mets' general manager, said.
"We had talked to a number of teams about Todd," Phillips related. "It came down to just the Dodgers' and the Orioles' being interested in him. A few teams said they had interest but wanted to wait until spring training. We didn't want to wait until the spring, when we thought there could be a circus atmosphere."
As he talked with the Dodgers, Phillips knew they were talking to the Orioles about Johnson. Knowing the Orioles sought a catcher, he talked to them about Hundley. They came close to a deal, Phillips said; in fact, he said, they actually had a tentative deal. But it fell apart. Back to the Dodgers.
"We started to construct the three-way deal," Phillips related. "First we worked out our deal with the Dodgers, then turned around and began negotiations with the Orioles to see what they'd give us for Johnson. We knew we wanted Benitez. We concluded Hundley for Johnson and then turned Johnson around for Benitez."
The Reds' successful trade had its genesis two weeks before spring training. Jim Bowden, the Reds' general manager, gained permission to add a few dollars to his smallish payroll. He targeted Greg Vaughn and his $5.75 million salary ($850,000 deferred without interest) and acquired him from San Diego for Reggie Sanders, an outfielder not in the team's plans, and Damian Jackson, an infielder in the same situation.
Without Vaughn, the Reds would not have had the surprisingly good season that took them one victory short of the playoffs. He led he team with 45 home runs and 118 runs batted in.
The Diamondbacks' successful deal brought them Luis Gonzalez, who led the team with a .336 batting average and also contributed 26 home runs and 111 r.b.i. He epitomized the surprisingly strong Diamondbacks, and all he cost them in the trade with Detroit was a young outfielder, Karim Garcia, who batted .240 in 96 games.
For offensive production, though, the Pirates made the best deal. It brought them Brian Giles, and the Pirates got him from hitting-rich Cleveland for a reliever, Ricardo Rincon. Giles batted .315, clouted 39 home runs and drove in 115 runs, numbers that would have been higher had he not lost the last two weeks with a broken finger.
The Pirates made another trade that sent Jon Lieber, one of their starting pitchers, to the Cubs for Brant Brown, an outfielder. Brown was a disappointment for the Pirates, and Lieber compiled a mediocre 10-11 record for Chicago. But those 10 victories made Lieber the Cubs' No. 1 starter.
For absence of achievement, though, no trade came close to another swap the Mets and the Dodgers made. The Mets gave the Dodgers Mel Rojas, once a capable reliever; they received Bobby Bonilla, once a productive hitter. Rojas appeared in only five games for the Dodgers before they released him. Bonilla remains a member of the Mets, his .160 batting average testimony to a gamble gone wrong.
"It's something we talked about at the end of season," Phillips said, "the logic being we needed to add offense. To make it work within the confines of our payroll, we knew we had to shift Mel's contract and hope to catch lightning in a bottle. I'm not sure there was a dissenting voice in the entire group: the people on the field, in the front office and the owners."
 
Expensive Digs
For their meetings this week, the general managers are staying in $400-a-night hotel suites. "It doesn't make sense in our economy to meet where the rate is $400," one general manager said. Added another: "In baseball, we pay lots of money for pitchers and hotel rooms."
 
Passing the Torch
Richard Jacobs, who sold the Indians last week to Larry Dolan, will be remembered as the owner under whom the team underwent a stunning revival. He will also be remembered as an owner who wanted a more activist commissioner. When the Mets signed Dwight Gooden to a three-year contract for $13.45 million in 1991, Jacobs urged Fay Vincent, then the commissioner, to fine the Mets for giving Gooden so much money.
"I'm furious," Jacobs said when he telephoned Vincent. "How can you let that happen? You should fine them. We need a commissioner who will take action."
Less than a year and a half later, Jacobs was part of the ownership group that forced Vincent out.
 
Awkward Reunion
When Albert Belle left the Indians as a free agent after the 1996 season, there was no happier man in the Indians camp than their manager, Mike Hargrove. Mr. Hargrove, meet your right fielder in your new job as Baltimore manager. Yes, Mike and Albert are reunited.
 
Baseball Economics
Doug Melvin, the Texas general manager, who triggered the superstar trade action by sending Juan Gonzalez to Detroit last week, said agents don't want to name a price when they are negotiating a contract. " 'Market value,' they say," Melvin said.
So what is market value these days? Is it the $13 million a year of Mike Piazza, the $15 million a year of Kevin Brown, or the $12.5 million a year of Bernie Williams and Larry Walker? It's not the last figure, because Jim Bronner, Gonzalez's agent, indicated that wouldn't do the job, Melvin said.
Perhaps market value has been established by the Seattle Mariners' offers to Ken Griffey Jr. ($16 million a year for eight years) and Alex Rodriguez ($17.25 million a year for eight years). But neither player plans to accept the offers, so maybe they don't set the market either. Do we hear $20 million?
The Seattle Mariners' brain trust meets with Griffey and he tells them he wants to be traded to a team closer to his home. They meet with Rodriguez and he tells them he wants to stay, at least until his contract runs out after next season. That might work for Rodriguez, but it doesn't work for the Mariners.
This doesn't work for the Mariners either: Rodriguez says if they do trade him this off-season, he won't sign a new contract with his new team; he'll become a free agent next year. The shortstop's stance makes it more difficult for the Mariners to trade him, but they will most likely try.
Griffey has taken a different approach. "If a trade is worked out, he'll be open-minded," said Brian Goldberg, who is Griffey's agent. "He's not saying he'll sign right away or test free agency. But he'll look at it and see how he likes it."
The line forms to the left.
 
He Could Look It Up
If Pete Rose, as he has said recently, has really never seen the evidence baseball investigators compiled 10 years ago in their inquiry into allegations that he gambled on baseball games, the Internet has just what he's looking for. All Rose has to do is click on DowdReport.com, and he'll have before his eyes the very report compiled by John Dowd, the Washington lawyer who was baseball's chief investigator.
The report has all the evidence Rose would want to see. "Recently," Dowd writes, "there has been much renewed interest in the Dowd Report and in Pete Rose's lifetime banishment from baseball. I am making the Dowd Report and the agreement signed by Pete Rose and Commissioner Giamatti available in this forum so that the public may draw its own conclusions."
Dowd's Web site also includes a statement Commissioner A. Bartlett Giamatti read Aug. 24, 1989, the day he announced Rose's banishment. It undermines a contention Rose has made that he never had a hearing.
"By choosing not to come to a hearing before me," Giamatti said, "and by choosing not to proffer any testimony or evidence contrary to the evidence and information contained in the report of the Special Counsel to the Commissioner, Mr. Rose has accepted baseball's ultimate sanction, lifetime ineligibility."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Outfielder Roger Cedeno of the Mets was part of the most successful trade of last off-season. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (73%); MICHIGAN, USA (73%); OHIO, USA (55%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CINCINNATI REDS (55%); NEW YORK METS (93%); TEXAS RANGERS (84%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (55%); CINCINNATI REDS (55%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (55%); CINCINNATI REDS (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (54%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (93%); TEXAS RANGERS (84%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (55%); CINCINNATI REDS (55%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (55%); CINCINNATI REDS (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (54%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (73%); MICHIGAN, USA (73%); OHIO, USA (55%); DETROIT, MI, USA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (61%); 

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



176 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 7; Column 1; Education Life Supplement 

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: BLACKBOARD: INNOVATIONS;
Made in the U's of A: Designs for Real Life

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN 

 BODY:
Last spring, Allen Taflove, who teaches in the Engineering, Design and Communication Program at Northwestern University, posed this problem to his students: You're alone in the desert, you break a leg and you can't get any reception on your cell phone. So what do you do? The freshmen responded by designing an antenna that boosts reception in remote places.
The solution was a surprise to everyone. "Most people don't expect freshmen to come up with anything viable," Professor Taflove said. But they do. Dozens of colleges and universities are now offering programs in which undergraduates design functional products on their own or with local entrepreneurs or major corporations. 
 In Lehigh University's Integrated Product Development Program, students work with companies like Black & Decker and Lutron Electronics to develop or to improve products. The companies are charged $10,000. In return, they get access to university resources and bright young minds; students get experience and academic credit, and the college gets a stake in potentially lucrative products.
"For years, business leaders and recruiters have said that college students have the technical skills but are not used to working in teams and communicating in a cross-disciplinary manner," said Todd Watkins, an associate professor of economics at Lehigh who helps coordinate its projects. "These programs engage teams of undergraduates in collaborative, project-based problem-solving and decision-making for real products that in many cases do end up in the marketplace."
Which raises the tricky issue of ownership. Most institutions have patent policies for faculty and graduate students, and generally, if the inventor uses the university's labs and resources, it has some intellectual-property claim. Disputes, however, do erupt. For the past year, Vanu Bose, son of the founder of Bose sound systems, has been fighting the Massachusetts Institute of Technology over a wireless software radio he developed as a graduate student.
The issue of ownership becomes even murkier when it involves outside companies and undergraduates. "It's a new area," Professor Watkins said. "There's no well-established procedure. Right now it's a one-on-one discussion with each company we work with."
The question now being debated at Northwestern is: Who owns the antenna-for-the-desert?
"We think Professor Taflove and Northwestern will own the patent, and the students will get royalties if anyone chooses to manufacture it," said Prith Banerjee, the chairman of the electrical and computer engineering department at Northwestern, which oversees the program. "But we're still not sure." ABBY ELLIN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Northwestern University, freshmen help clients -- companies, organizations or just people -- solve design problems. One invention: a cone-shaped foam attachment that covers a rake handle. "The client had a problem with his hand and wanted a product, so the team studied ergonomics and hand structure and developed an approach that would spread out the hand pressure," said Prof. Barbara Schwom, who managed the project. The students are now writing a patent application. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times); A sandal maker in Bethlehem, Pa., gave six undergraduates at Lehigh University a sandal with a troubled sole. The students are analyzing competition, pricing, marketing strategies and consumer tastes. They are also designing a more durable sole by using computer technology.; No more cramped equations. When the Blackboard Notetaker Pad is held sideways, rules run horizontally. "It works really well with formulas on a blackboard because you can write notes the same way the professor presents it," said John Kosar, who designed the pad as a senior at the Center for Entrepreneurial Studies at Washington and Jefferson College in Washington, Pa. The pads were being manufactured until a contractual disagreement arose with the company. Mr. Kosar has trademarked the name but has not sought a patent.; Toys for the disabled are popular design projects on campuses. Upperclassmen at the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences at the State University of New York at Stony Brook have developed prototypes for a wheelchair-bicycle and a remote control, worn on the head, that manipulates toys by a turn of the head. The university hopes to market the ideas. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BDK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3546 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (64%); BLACK & DECKER CORP (56%); BLACK & DECKER CORP (56%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (91%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (91%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (83%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (91%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (91%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (83%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DESIGN; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); ROYALTIES (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (54%); 

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY ALLEN TAFLOVE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



177 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Senate Bid Could Give Unions Negotiating Leverage

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Labor unions overwhelmingly backed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's re-election in 1997, but now they are not only tilting strongly toward his likely Senate opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton, but also hoping to use the Senate race to squeeze more out of the mayor in contract talks next year.
Political analysts said this labor backing could hurt the mayor and help the first lady in several traditional ways -- through union phone banks and get-out-the-vote efforts -- and in one unorthodox way. Warning that city workers are fuming about the modest wage increases in their current contract, several union leaders said labor tensions and protests were likely if Mr. Giuliani failed to be generous in contract talks. 
 "It's very hard to run a campaign when you have a lot of labor unrest in your own backyard," said Lee Saunders, director of District Council 37, the municipal employees' union that represents 125,000 workers.
Deputy Mayor Randy L. Levine, who is the mayor's chief labor negotiator, vowed that Mr. Giuliani would be as tough as ever in the contract talks, which cover nearly 300,000 workers, including teachers, firefighters, police officers and social workers.
"There's nothing they can do that would make life difficult for him," Mr. Levine said. "Many of these unions need to get their own houses in order and start to represent their members' interests, rather than worry about politics."
Several labor experts said Mr. Giuliani faced a daunting challenge balancing a Senate run with contract negotiations. He might be tempted to impress conservatives by being tough on labor, these experts said, though doing so would only erode his union support in the city.
On the other hand, said Raymond D. Horton, a professor at Columbia University Business School who was president of the Citizens Budget Commission, the mayor's Senate ambitions might cause him to give away the store. "If past is prologue, electoral politics will certainly intrude on collective bargaining," Professor Horton said. "The general pattern is, it makes the mayor a patsy in collective bargaining."
Mr. Levine said the mayor would not bring politics to the negotiating table. "We do contracts that look to what benefits the city," he said.
For the Senate campaign, the mayor's relations with labor promise to be far testier than in his 1997 re-election bid. Two years ago, Mr. Giuliani and his aides strenuously sought labor endorsements, valuing union phone banks and donations and knowing that union endorsements of his Democratic opponent, Ruth W. Messinger, could have given momentum to her faltering campaign.
Several powerful unions that backed the mayor in 1997 are now leaning toward the first lady, among them the transit workers' union, a 50,000-member janitors' union and, most important of all, District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
In addition, after staying on the sidelines in the mayoral race, the city's two most politically potent unions -- 1199, a health-care union with 150,000 members, and the United Federation of Teachers, with 90,000 -- are making plans to endorse and campaign hard for Mrs. Clinton.
Many political experts say the teachers' and 1199's all-out campaign efforts were pivotal to Senator Charles M. Schumer's narrow victory last year over the Republican incumbent, Alfonse M. D'Amato.
With 2.3 million union members in the state, labor is often considered New York's most potent political force. Its political clout is smaller in statewide races, however, because union membership is not nearly as concentrated upstate and in the suburbs as in the city.
Still, some analysts say that with polls showing the mayor and the first lady neck and neck, labor's ability to get voters to the polls could push Mrs. Clinton over the top.
"Union endorsement and union engagement can make a significant difference, particularly if it's a tight race," said Ester Fuchs, director of the Center on Urban Research and Policy at Columbia University. "The candidate that can get out their base is going to win this race, and if unions turn out Democratic voters who haven't been turning out, then the race goes to Hillary."
Because neither Mr. Giuliani nor Mrs. Clinton has officially declared as a candidate, no union has made a formal endorsement. But several unions, most notably the Civil Service Employees Association, the state's largest public employee union, with 265,000 members, have indicated they would back Mrs. Clinton as soon as she announced.
In 1997, unions backed the mayor's re-election for various reasons, among them that they were pleased that the city had rebounded during his tenure, they were afraid of retribution if they opposed him, and his Democratic opponent, Ms. Messinger, had scant chance of winning.
But union leaders said the considerations that go into a Senate endorsement are different. Several labor leaders said Mr. Giuliani's forceful personality worked well in City Hall, but would probably flop in the Senate. These labor leaders also noted that senators, unlike mayors, focus on national issues like health care, education and the minimum wage, where Mrs. Clinton's views often parallel labor's.
In addition, several municipal union leaders said their members were fuming at Mr. Giuliani and unlikely to endorse him because their salaries have languished while the city's economy has soared.
"There is still tremendous anger in the city work force about the pay freeze in the first two years of our contract, particularly in light of the booming economy," said Randi Weingarten, president of the teachers' union.
Complicating matters for Mr. Giuliani, the city's contract negotiations are expected to begin early next year and could reach fever pitch during the Senate campaign.
"My members want to fix the shortcomings of the current contract," said Patrick Lynch, the president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. "There is a huge debt owed to the city's unions, because their sacrifices helped create the budget surplus."
Mr. Levine defended the current round of five-year contracts, saying they improved productivity among municipal workers while giving them a raise of nearly 13 percent over five years -- more than the inflation rate.
Mr. Giuliani has been hurt and Mrs. Clinton fortuitously helped by some turnover that parent unions in Washington brought about to clean house at two of the city's largest unions. As a result of his high salary and high living, Gus Bevona, a Giuliani supporter, was forced out as president of the city's largest janitors' union, Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union. The trustees named to replace him are liberals who share many of Mrs. Clinton's views.
District Council 37's former executive director, Stanley Hill, was closely allied with the mayor, and enthusiastically endorsed his re-election. But Mr. Hill was forced out last November for failing to stop embezzlement and vote fraud at the union.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lee Saunders, director of District Council 37, the municipal employees' union, appearing with Hillary Rodham Clinton last month. (Frances Roberts)(pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR UNIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS LABOR UNIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); MAYORS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (62%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LEVINE, RANDY L (DEPUTY MAYOR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



178 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Office Tower Is Planned, Without Leases Set

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Jerry I. Speyer, the developer who owns Rockefeller Center and the Chrysler Building, wants to accomplish the real estate equivalent of reviving an endangered species: he plans to build a speculative office tower.
Since the recession in the early 1990's left Manhattan landlords with bankrupt skyscrapers and acres of vacant space, lenders have been loath to provide financing for any office building that did not already have a tenant. Office towers now under construction have already been designated as homes for Morgan Stanley, Bertelsmann, Ernst & Young or Bear Stearns & Company. 
 But Mr. Speyer is betting that the real estate market is now so robust that he and his partner, Travelers Insurance, will have no problem filling up his proposed 25-story, granite and teal-colored glass tower at 222 East 41st Street, near Third Avenue. He expects to begin construction early next year and to open 18 months later.
"We're putting up a new building, which I think is going to be the first of a new generation of buildings," Mr. Speyer said. "We've had enough inquiries already that lead us to believe that going forward is the prudent thing to do."
Some real estate executives expressed skepticism about Mr. Speyer's plans because space is available in nearby buildings, including 622 Third Avenue and the Chrysler Building. They also suggested that the building site is not the most desirable corporate location.
According to Newmark & Company, a real estate brokerage firm, the vacancy rate for prime office space in Midtown Manhattan is about 8.5 percent, and is slightly higher in the Grand Central district. However, there are few large blocks of space available.
Mr. Speyer said he would be offering modern office space in the 365,000-square-foot tower for rents of about $53 a square foot, including taxes and operating costs. Other developers concede that Mr. Speyer's rents would be $10 to $20 a square foot cheaper than other new buildings, including one in Times Square that has a steep subsidy from the city and state.
The key difference, Mr. Speyer said, is that his land costs were so low. The development rights for the site, which now serves as a parking lot, are owned by Travelers. He said the insurer had obtained the right to use the lot from the estate of Stanley Stahl, a real estate magnate.
Designed by Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, the building will be known as 222 East 41st Street. "By New York standards, it's not a huge building," Mr. Speyer said. "But I'm excited to be building in New York again."
Although Mr. Speyer has done extensive renovations of Rockefeller Center and the Chrysler Building in recent years, this tower would be his first new project since an office building at 375 Hudson Street in the mid-1980's.
Mr. Speyer would be building the first speculative office tower since the last real estate boom. Developers were still building new skyscrapers at a brisk pace in 1987, when the vacancy rate in Midtown hit double digits. But lenders continued to provide the financing for new projects until 1991, when vacancy rates soared to 18 percent in midtown and 25 percent downtown and the market collapsed. Many new office buildings sat empty for years.
The first new office tower since then was just completed by Douglas Durst at 4 Times Square. About half the towers now under construction have tax breaks and other incentives from the city.
"Lenders learned from their mistakes," said Ross Moskowitz, a real estate lawyer at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan. "Now only a handful of developers have access to the kind of financing that will allow, for the first time in almost a decade, speculative buildings to be built." He said "demand currently exceeds supply."
Still, at least five developers, who have construction sites in hand, cannot move forward without a tenant. Brookfield Properties Corporation, for example, plans to build a 1.2-million-square-foot tower at Madison Avenue and 42nd Street if the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce agrees to a lease. Mr. Durst would like to build another skyscraper at 42nd Street and Avenue of the Americas if he can find a tenant.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The designer's rendering of 222 East 41st Street. (Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS INSURANCE CO BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (71%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); BGC PARTNERS INC (54%); HOK GROUP INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRAVELERS INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; SPEYER, JERRY I JERRY I SPEYER (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



179 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11;Page 7;Column 1;Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/The 1893 Cable Building, Broadway and Houston Street;
Built for New Technology by McKim, Mead & White

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
THE 1893 Cable Building marked the sudden advent of a new technology, with giant basement rollers drawing cable cars along Broadway from the Battery to 36th Street -- a $12 million investment that became obsolete less than a decade later. Now the building at Broadway and Houston Street, designed by McKim, Mead & White, is on the line that divides SoHo and NoHo, as a new rush of technology allows the owner to return the building to its cable-era elegance.
Cable cars were first installed in New York in the mid-1880's, a promising advance over the slower and dirtier horse-drawn cars. But the city was divided into many surface-transit franchises, and the smaller companies did not have the financing to install cable mechanisms, so cable expansion lagged, especially in the congested city center, where construction issues also impeded progress. 
 So it took something like the giant Metropolitan Traction Company -- a syndicate that included a former city corporation counsel, William C. Whitney, a financier, Thomas Fortune Ryan, and a Tammany contractor, John D. Crimmins -- to raise the kind of money it took for a comprehensive change. In 1892 Metropolitan filed plans for a new eight-story office and loft building at the northwest corner of Houston and Broadway, stretching back to Mercer Street.
The upper floors were designed for offices, but the basement was given over to a series of steam engines and winding wheels -- 26 feet in diameter -- that moved one-and-a-half-inch steel cables just under the surface of Broadway from Bowling Green to 36th Street. Metropolitan spent more than $12 million on the cable system, designed by the engineer George W. McNulty.
The cables moved at a constant speed, reported as 30 miles an hour; car operators clamped on or off, and used ancillary brakes. The cables weighed 40 tons each and drew up to 60 cars at once. The company expanded the service as it bought more and more lines. By 1897 it controlled most surface transit lines in Manhattan.
According to Mosette Broderick, an architectural historian, the $750,000 Cable Building itself was designed by Stanford White, almost certainly because White and William C. Whitney had become friends and collaborators. "It was a nice, lucrative goody in a very bad economic time -- the McKim, Mead & White office was laying off people in the early 1890's," said Professor Broderick, who teaches at New York University's College of Arts and Sciences and has just finished writing a book on the architectural firm and its clients.
Although the large windows clearly denote a commercial space, the delicate terra cotta, light orange brick and elaborate copper cornice are characteristic of more monumental design. The sculptor J. Massey Rhind designed two colossal female figures flanking the doorway -- commissioned sculpture is also unusual on commercial buildings. The Real Estate Record and Guide called the new Cable Building "the highest achievement of the art" and remarked that, with its example, "no excuse remains for building cheaply or meanly on any New York City property." The building is part of the NoHo Historic District designated in June by the Landmarks Preservation Commission.
The theory of cable power was not completely borne out. The cables moved at a constant speed, so conductors had to be careful to release the cable nearing a tight corner, like the one at 14th Street and Broadway. But conductors were forgetful, there were many accidents, and the bend earned the name "Dead Man's Curve."
IT took only one problem to interrupt service on the entire line -- in the rush hour on Oct. 9, 1900, a cable broke in the basement of the Cable Building, shutting the system down for four hours during a heavy rainstorm.
These shortcomings were magnified as Metropolitan expanded its system. Only two years after the building was completed The New York Tribune reported that, for its 18 million car-miles annually, the company could save $2 million a year if a good electric system could be developed. Electric propulsion was also much smoother.
So on May 25, 1901, the last cable car left Houston Street for the Battery, and the line switched to electricity. The Cable Building retained its name, but the machinery stood silent and was later removed. By the 1930's the building had tenants like National Pants, Hercules Shoe Lace and the Doll Parts Manufacturing Association.
In 1985, when Harry Feldman and Jules Demchick -- with a group of investors called Cable Building Associates -- bought the building, tenants included a mixture of small manufacturers and offices. The building was not in good shape, and the new owners have upgraded the elevators, lobby and corridors, made extensive roof repairs, and hired Apple Restoration to clean, repoint and repair the facade, a project that was completed last year and cost more than $1 million, said Evan Stein, who manages the building.
Ken Follett, the head of Apple, said that the building "had a depressing cast to it" -- before the cleaning, a prior owner had painted many of the building's elements brown, including the marble panels at the fourth and fifth floors.
Now the inside could be the set for a new workplace sitcom -- in plan it's a large doughnut ringing an interior court, which lets the visitor see into the offices of Web designers, software engineers and others. Recently, one employee in socks was taking a break by jogging around the doughnut, which looks like it might be 20 laps to the mile. The perimeter corridor is lit by broad expanses of oak-trimmed windows, which have been stripped and polished.
The firm of Allanbrook Benic Czajka Architects has the best view in the place, on the eighth-floor corner looking south down Broadway and east on Houston. "We walked in and started jumping up and down," said James V. Czajka, a partner; they pay $4,000 a month for a 1,500 square foot space.
Although some interior elements have been restored, the interior still has an atmospheric, battered quality, with traces of cheap 1950's work colliding with elegant 1890's details. Mr. Stein said the owner wants to bring back the lobby ceiling, which is concealed by drywall, and redo the doors, which are cheap aluminum replacements.
He said that almost all the offices are small, often just 900 or 1,000 square feet, so they often get start-up businesses. But as the Cable Building looks better and better, and the demand for such space increases, he said, they are losing their older tenant mix of artists and nonprofit organizations, which cannot match the annual rents of up to $35 a square foot paid by Internet companies and high-tech businesses.
"But we're doing our best to keep the variety," he said. "We try to keep all our renewals below the market level. This is the artistic pulse of the city."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Streetscapes column last Sunday, about the Cable Building, misstated the position of Ken Follett at Apple Restoration, the concern that restored the facade. He is the executive vice president, not the company's head.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cable Building, built in 1893, as it appeared in 1910, left. (Office for Metropolitan History); The last cable car ran in 1901, making the giant basement rollers drawing the cables obsolete. Now the building, right, is being restored and getting high-tech businesses for its office space. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UPPER ROOM (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); SCULPTURE (83%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); HISTORY (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



180 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3;Page 4;Column 1;Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
For Employers,Pitfalls in Treating Workplace Depression

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

 BODY:
ASK an experienced manager about the "reasonable accommodation" that employers must provide under the Americans With Disabilities Act, and you are likely to hear about wheelchair ramps, Braille signs in the elevator and other physical changes to assist workers with physical handicaps. 
 But what does "accommodation" mean for workers suffering from depression? The question nettles employers across the country.
Depression, of course, is not simply the blues. It is a clinically defined mental disorder that is estimated to affect roughly 1 in 10 Americans over the age of 18, sapping their energy, impairing their concentration and making them prone to mood swings and unexplained absences. Add up the work time lost to the illness and the medical bills for treating it, and by some estimates depression costs American employers $36.2 billion a year.
Yet in many a workplace, depression is regarded as a character flaw rather than a treatable illness, and some employers follow what amounts to a don't ask, don't tell policy, implicitly expecting workers to soldier on in silence or be stigmatized as "not up to the job," said Thomas W. Croghan, a research physician with Eli Lilly & Company and an associate professor at Indiana University.
Such attitudes are part of the reason that the government gets more disability-act complaints from workers with emotional or psychiatric impairments than from workers with any other kind of disability. In preliminary figures for the federal fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2,681 of the 17,014 complaints filed with the Labor Department concerned emotional or psychiatric impairments, and almost half of those -- 1,278 -- involved depression.
For managers, failure to grapple with the problems of depressed employees is economically shortsighted, experts say. Several academic and corporate studies have found that getting depressed workers into treatment is cost-effective because the workers' restored productivity, even if not 100 percent, still outweighs the cost of treatment. "It'll probably cost you more if you don't address it," said Thomas J. O'Connor, director of PRS Disability Management, a Falls Church, Va., consulting firm that provides return-to-work assistance for professionals with depression.
Daniel J. Conti, director of the employee assistance program at Bank One in Chicago, related an example at his company: An information systems manager whose job kept him on the road almost constantly went on disability leave because of depression. When he wanted to return to work, he was told by his doctor that he would not be able to travel.
At first glance, there seems to be no solution, Dr. Conti said. But a disability coordinator in the program had been monitoring the manager's treatment during his leave and had kept in touch with both his physician and his work supervisor. The case manager was able to win agreement from both on a reduced-travel schedule for the employee, with an eye toward a gradual increase back to the pre-leave level.
"We got the person back to work earlier in an accommodated fashion" than would otherwise have been possible, Mr. Conti said, "and my bet right now is that this person will be able to stay at work."
In a tight labor market, retaining workers, disabled or not, is a high priority. "People can't afford, given their investment, to throw someone away and get someone new," Mr. O'Connor said.
But when it comes to depression, he said, the disabilities act has led employers to focus too much on the risks they face.
"They are walking on eggshells, so they look toward the safest way to deal with it, risk management and compliance," he said. "We want employers to embrace employee management."
In Bank One's case, integration of the employee assistance program with the company's human resources and benefits departments makes it easier for the program staff to help managers cope with difficult situations.
In the name of privacy protection, though, some companies prefer to keep more distance between employee assistance programs and other departments.
Still, applying the law to depression remains a problem for employers and employees alike. Attempts by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to clarify how depression fits in under the law have failed to resolve some important issues.
"As it is now applied, the A.D.A. only partially accommodates the needs of depressed workers," researchers concluded in a recent study published in the September-October issue of Health Affairs, a journal of health policy.
The study found that a growing number of employers believe that they should encourage a worker with depression to seek treatment, but that they often hesitate because of concerns about how to approach the employee. And they are not sure what the law requires, an uncertainty that employees share. Especially blurry is whether the act applies in cases where medication can keep symptoms of depression in check.
"The law is unclear as to where the need to accommodate ends," said Dr. Croghan, the Lilly research physician, who was an author of the Health Affairs article.
Experts point to a recent United States Supreme Court decision in which two airline workers whose impaired vision was correctable were found not to be protected under the law. The courts might apply the same reasoning, the experts say, to depressed workers.
"Depression is extremely treatable," said Peggy R. Mastroianni, associate legal counsel for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. "To the extent that these cases give them less protection, it is a concern."
But, Ms. Mastroianni said, depressed workers may find that they still have protection under the A.D.A. if they have a record of disability or if their medication creates side effects that hamper their performance.
Chai Feldblum, a law professor at Georgetown University Law Center who helped write the disabilities act, said the Supreme Court ruling meant that "greater attention will be given to the absurd Catch-22 created by this law."
Ms. Mastroianni said the commission expected to issue more guidelines on depression soon. Whether or not they turn out to be helpful -- some consultants say the commission's past efforts have only muddied the waters -- they are further evidence of heightened awareness.
"I think many companies are still struggling with the how-to of dealing with depression in a proactive way," said Gregg O. Lehman, president of the National Business Coalition, which provides information to employers on how to buy health care coverage for workers. "But increasingly, companies are embracing the fact that we have to do something."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the effect of the Americans With Disabilities Act on employees with depression misidentified the government agency that receives complaints from disabled workers about workplace accommodation. It is the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, not the Labor Department.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sara Schwartz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (68%); LLY (NYSE) (68%); JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (68%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); DEPRESSION (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (78%); EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (78%); DISABLED ACCESS (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); 

PERSON: DANIEL J CONTI (70%); THOMAS J O'CONNOR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



181 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 16; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: I Hear America Sighing

BYLINE: By Richard Rorty; Richard Rorty's "Philosophy and Social Hope" will be published in January.

 BODY:

THE REAL
 AMERICAN DREAM
 A Meditation on Hope.
 By Andrew Delbanco.
 143 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
 Harvard University Press. $19.95. 
 Andrew Delbanco, who teaches humanities at Columbia University, is one of America's most acute and perceptive cultural critics. Yet this "meditation on hope" (his Massey Lectures in American civilization, given at Harvard last year) ends on a note of hesitation. Delbanco is not sure whether the remedy for our country's "postmodern melancholy" is to get religion or, instead, to resacralize the United States, replacing hope for divine redemption with the secular hope for an ideally just America. In the last pages of his beautifully written book, he hints that the latter strategy will not work. But he never quite commits himself.
The three lectures in "The Real American Dream" are titled "God," "Nation" and "Self": three candidates for the central figure in a narrative that may, by providing hope, avert "the lurking suspicion that all our getting and spending amounts to nothing more than fidgeting while we wait for death." Such a sustaining narrative, as Delbanco says, is called a culture when it "establishes itself over time in the minds of a substantial number of people."
Delbanco thinks that the 19th-century American attempt to substitute the nation for God was, in its day, fairly successful. Lincoln, he says, "perhaps more through his death than through his life, contributed immeasurably to the sacralization of the state as the source of justice, mercy and hope." Whitman's "O Captain! My Captain!" and "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd" helped Americans identify their country not as Zion, the place where the eternal would next intersect the temporal, but rather as the site of the great secular project that its martyred president had sketched at Gettysburg. Lincoln's nation, as Delbanco says, was "the political incarnation of the idea of universal rights" -- rights whose achievement can be embraced as a sacred mission, whether or not one believes that we are endowed with them by a divine being.
Delbanco doubts that many present-day Americans are buoyed up by the hopes that Lincoln and Whitman shared. "We live," he says, "in an age of unprecedented wealth, but in the realm of narrative and symbol, we are deprived." Neither God nor Nation works anymore. Yet the Self -- the consuming, narcissistic Self -- is a nonstarter, for the whole point of a sustaining narrative is to take one beyond self-involvement. Delbanco quotes Melville as saying, "We become sad in the first place because we have nothing stirring to do," and his third lecture argues that this sort of sadness has become pervasive among Americans at the end of the century.
Delbanco echoes many other recent accounts of what has happened to America when he says that "something died, or at least fell dormant, between the later 1960's, when the reform impulse subsided into solipsism, and the 1980's -- two phases of our history . . . that finally cooperated in installing instant gratification as the hallmark of the good life, and in repudiating the interventionist state as a source of hope." He admits that his "division of American history into two phases of coherent belief followed by a third phase of incoherence and nervous waiting" is "too neat." Nevertheless, his simplified sketch of our country's attempts to find sustaining narratives serves his purposes well. It helps him dramatize the alternatives he believes we now face: to go back to the secular project of Lincoln, Whitman, the Progressive movement, the New Deal and the Great Society, or to abandon secularism and return to the faith of our great-great-grandfathers, or to dream up some third, unprecedented source of hope.
The misleading word "real" in Delbanco's title suggests that he might have some proposals for a third sustaining narrative. He says at the end of his prologue that "in a brief conclusion, I shall propose a few thoughts about what new idea, if any, may be gathering form and strength . . . as the old forms of hope pass away." But it is hard to find these thoughts in his final pages. Instead, one gets references to Graham Greene, Walker Percy and others who believe both that only God will do and that only a consciousness of sin will get us back in touch with God. Delbanco keeps hinting that hope must be paid for with guilt; that Whitmanesque exuberance cannot last; that a merely secular project cannot, in the end, fend off melancholy.
Reading these pages, one is reminded that the first lecture, titled "God," was all about the Puritans -- guilt-ridden people about whom Delbanco has written a great deal in the past, and whom he takes very seriously indeed. Maybe he should take them less seriously. Harold Bloom, in "The American Religion," spoke for many when he wondered why American intellectual historians seem so obsessed with tracing our roots back to that particular little group of self-flagellating sickies: people who believed (as Delbanco says Jonathan Edwards did) that "if God should decide to pluck you from the fire . . . it would be for no reason other than his own inscrutable whim."
Bloom thinks that nobody who sadomasochistically relishes dependence on a higher power can qualify for the American pantheon, for America truly begins only when Emersonian self-reliance replaces Calvinist guilt. No real American, Bloom believes, takes himself to be younger than God. Even those unwilling to go quite that far will wonder if Delbanco picked the right sort of God to write about in his first chapter.
Perhaps the pre-Civil War religious movements that Delbanco briefly mentions in his second lecture -- Mormonism, Millerism and the like -- would have been more suitable subjects than Puritanism. Delbanco might have been well advised to follow Bloom's advice that we see Joseph Smith's as the right sort of response to Emerson's challenge -- his call for Americans to imagine a new relation to the divine. Had Delbanco been willing to forget, for once, about the Puritans, he might have devoted his first chapter to the period 1800-50, when, as he says, "every week seemed to mark the appearance of a fresh prophet determined (to use Melville's phrase) to 'gospelize the world anew.' "Doing so would have made the transition from the "God" chapter to the "Nation" chapter less abrupt.
In the latter chapter Delbanco shows that he fully understands and warmly admires Lincoln's attempt to transform Christian symbolism "into the symbol of a redeemer nation, and, thereby, into a new symbol of hope." But in his third and final chapter he keeps insinuating that late-20th-century America is evidence that such attempts are doomed to fail. One such suggestion is provided by a passage contrasting the way in which the Puritan self "expanded toward (and was sometimes overwhelmed by) the vastness of God" with "a national ideal lesser than God but larger and more enduring than any individual citizen."
"Lesser than God"? That phrase begs the central question Delbanco's book raises. Why, one can imagine Whitman asking, should we Americans take God's word for it that he is more vast than the free, just, utopian nation of our dreams? Whitman famously called the United States of America "the greatest poem." He took narratives that featured God to be lesser poems -- useful in their day, because suitable for the needs of a younger humanity. But now we are more grown up. For us, the tortured adolescent writhings of Augustine, Jonathan Edwards and Graham Greene should be subjects of commiseration, not models for imitation.
GRANTED that the present culture of instant gratification makes even the Puritans look good by comparison, Delbanco gives us little reason to treat that culture as the fated result of the secularist replacement of God by Nation. As he recognizes, this is not the first time that our country has indulged in an orgy of selfishness, or that it has, self-defeatingly, pinned all its hopes on Self. Back in 1929, George Babbitt's mindless bounciness was making Edwards's asceticism look good. But a few years later, Tom Joad and F.D.R. were making Whitman and Lincoln look much better.
Disgusted as we may now be by Babbitt's spoiled great-grandchildren, we have every reason to hope that once today's economic bubble bursts, once we start reinventing the interventionist state, Americans will relearn what Delbanco calls "the lesson of Lincoln's life . . . that the quest for prosperity is no remedy for melancholy, but that a passion to secure justice by erasing the line that divides those with hope from those without hope can be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Alan Stamaty)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); RELIGION (75%); 

PERSON: ANDREW DELBANCO (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



182 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 47; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Bookend;
Charge!

BYLINE: By Edmund Morris; Edmund Morris is the author of "Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan." This essay is adapted from his introduction to the new Modern Library edition of "The Rough Riders."

 BODY:
"All men who feel any power of joy in battle," runs the most memorable sentence in Theodore Roosevelt's "Rough Riders," "know what it is like when the wolf rises in the heart." Through most of his 40 years he had managed to control this prowling aggression. Big-game hunting and a variety of strenuous sports relieved most of the physical pressure, while politics and writing served as outlets for his need to wage ideological warfare. He boasted that he was primarily a "literary feller," but an analysis of the books he wrote before 1898 shows that every one of them dealt with ways to establish mastery.
Even in the hypermasculine context of the late 19th century, Roosevelt's prose was notable for its violence, especially against men he considered not red-blooded enough, such as "the filthy little atheist" Thomas Paine and Henry James, "that little emasculated mass of inanities." 
 James, at least, could give as good as he got, calling T.R. "the mere monstrous embodiment of unprecedented and resounding Noise," not to mention "a dangerous and ominous jingo." The last phrase reflected the fears of many Americans, as the new century loomed, that a clique of young imperialists -- Roosevelt prominently included -- was bent on making the United States a colonial power. These plotters had been inspired by the quasi annexation of Hawaii in 1893 to look for other islands that would perfect the nation's defenses and confirm its supremacy. No prize glowed more alluringly in their eyes than "the Pearl of the Antilles," Cuba.
Richest colony in the world, lush with sugar cane and fragrant with tobacco, it lay just a skiff's ride south of Key West, offering the United States Navy a necklace of magnificent harbors from which to command the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico. Geographically, economically, strategically, it was a virtual adjunct of the American continent. And in 1895 the moment came when Cubans themselves were ready to throw off Spanish rule, if the norteamericanos would only assist.
On Feb. 24 of that year, a long-fomented rebellion broke out in the eastern part of the island, to Roosevelt's wild excitement. The rebellion spread and strengthened despite brutal reprisals by Spanish authorities, who did not hesitate to scorch the countryside and force most of the rural population into "reconcentration" camps. A steady flow of arms and money was funneled to the insurrection from revolutionary headquarters in New York (where, coincidentally, T.R. was now police commissioner), but the United States government did not become involved until early 1896, when Congress passed a resolution in support of Cuba Libre.
President Grover Cleveland and his Republican successor, William McKinley, stood as bulwarks against the rising tide of popular hostility toward Spain. They both felt that they had no right to interfere in the sovereign affairs of another state -- unless and until American interests were threatened. When T.R. joined the McKinley administration as assistant secretary of the Navy on April 19, 1897, American war fever had temporarily abated.
Not until January 1898 did McKinley authorize the first show of naval might in Cuban waters. Riots by Spanish loyalists in Havana put the lives and property of American citizens at risk, and the battleship Maine was ordered south on a "friendly" visit of indefinite duration. She was by no means the biggest or most lethal weapon in the United States arsenal, but nevertheless packed 17 big guns and a heavy cargo of torpedoes. She dropped anchor in Havana harbor on the 25th.
Meanwhile, American popular newspapers had been waging a constant propaganda campaign against the "butchers" who ruled Cuba. The effect of this "yellow press" agitation upon McKinley has been much exaggerated. Like all business-minded conservatives, he feared any disruption in the political status quo. He also had moral reservations about foreign military adventure, and felt that his fiery young appointee in the Navy Department was too war hungry by half. Roosevelt was already agitating for a commission in the event of any American invasion of Cuba.
This hotheadedness did not alarm McKinley so much as T.R.'s relentless efforts to concentrate the deployment of United States warships for possible blockade duty off Cuba and the Philippines, and to have them all fueled, rearmed and ready for instant action. "When war comes," Roosevelt wrote to Navy Secretary John D. Long, "it should come finally on our initiative."
Long had to remind T.R. that such an initiative was highly unlikely. A new, liberally inclined government was now installed in Madrid, and many of the previous regime's cruelest disciplinarians had been recalled from Cuba. What happened at 9:40 p.m. in Havana harbor on Feb. 15, 1898, was one of those freak concatenations of physical, political and temporal factors that precipitate fate and change history. The Maine blew up with such violence that 254 men died instantly, as blackened bits of steel shrapnel flew in all directions and the entire bay incandesced for several seconds. To this day the cause of the explosion is a matter of conjecture.
Whatever the truth, there was no doubt in the American popular mind next morning that Spain was responsible, and that Spain must pay. T.R. girded his loins for battle. "The Maine was sunk by an act of dirty treachery on the part of the Spaniards, I believe." In consequence, they must be expelled from the Western Hemisphere, not to mention the Far East. Waiting only for one of Secretary Long's frequent absences from the Navy Department, T.R. fired off a peremptory cable to Adm. Thomas E. Dewey, commander of the Far Eastern squadron in Hong Kong: "KEEP FULL OF COAL. IN THE EVENT OF A DECLARATION WAR SPAIN, YOUR DUTY WILL BE TO SEE THAT THE SPANISH SQUADRON DOES NOT LEAVE THE ASIATIC COAST, AND THEN OFFENSIVE OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS." Dewey later characterized this message as "the first step" toward America's long and painful experiment with colonization in the Philippines.
President McKinley tried with increasing anguish to quell the war fever rising nationwide and in Congress. But he proved eventually powerless, and Congress sent him an act of war effective on April 21. Two days later Theodore Roosevelt was offered command of the first of three new regiments "to be composed exclusively of frontiersmen possessing exclusive qualifications as horsemen and marksmen."
More than 10 years before, T.R. had dreamed of leading a troop of "harum-scarum roughriders" into war. But now, with surprising levelheadedness, he declined the honor. He told the secretary of war that his limited experience as a captain in the New York National Guard did not qualify him for regimental command yet. He therefore accepted the lieutenant-colonelcy of the First Volunteer Cavalry, commanded by a professional soldier, Col. Leonard Wood. On May 12, he left for the regimental muster camp in San Antonio.
Six months later, as a war hero and newly elected governor of New York, T.R. began to dictate the triumphant story of how he had achieved his "crowded hour," having victoriously commanded the Rough Riders in battle and purged his bloodlust at the crest of San Juan Hill. In doing so, he by no means waited for others to advertise his achievement.
Modern-day readers of "The Rough Riders" will notice, as did contemporary critics, that Roosevelt has a fondness for the personal pronoun that borders on the erotic. (It was rumored that typesetters of the first edition had to send out for an extra supply of the letter "I.") But there is something engaging about the boyishness of his vanity, the force and clarity of his prose and the acts of bravery he truthfully narrates.
Whether or not he deserved the Medal of Honor for leading that famous charge up San Juan Hill is a matter almost as vexed as the mystery of the Maine. T.R. was under no doubt whatsoever, and the frenzy with which he campaigned to get it is one of the few blots on his exemplary public record. At present, President Clinton is deciding whether to award him the medal posthumously, over the objections of the secretary of the Army.
Perhaps the final word should rest with that wisest and funniest of all American dialect satirists, Finley Peter Dunne's "Mr. Dooley." In 1899 Dunne published a review of "The Rough Riders" that made such sublime fun of its egocentric style that even T.R. was amused. (The two men became fast friends as a result, and when Roosevelt became president he used to recite it to White House dinner guests, with his hand on Dunne's shoulder.) Here is the opening paragraph. Mr. Dooley is addressing his friend Mr. Hennessy in a Chicago saloon:
"Well, sir, I jus' got hold iv a book, Hinnissy, that suits me up th' handle, a gran' book, th' grandest iver seen. . . . 'Tis 'Th' Account in th' Desthruction iv Spanish Power in th' Ant Hills,' as it fell fr'm th' lips of Tiddy Rosenfelt an' was took down be his own hands. Ye see 'twas this way, Hinnissy, as I r-read th' book. Whin Tiddy was blowed up in th' harbor iv Havana, he instantly con-cluded they must be war. He debated th' question long an' earnestly an' finally passed a jint resolution declarin' war. But there was no wan to carry it on. What shud he do? I will lave th' janial author tell th' story in his own wurruds."
And so will we.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (John Copeland)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CARIBBEAN SEA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); 

CITY: KEY WEST, FL, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CARIBBEAN SEA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); NAVIES (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); POLICE FORCES (60%); RELIGION (53%); 

PERSON: THOMAS OTTEN PAINE (56%); SIR GEORGE YOUNG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1999



183 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Media Talk;
Just Facts (Mostly) From National Journal

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Pundits, aweigh!
In an effort to partly curtail the ever-growing crop of pundits that with each passing year seems to proliferate on cable news channels like kudzu, MSNBC has signed a deal with the National Journal Group for the coming election year. 
 The National Journal Group publications -- like the political Web site Hotline, Congress Daily and Congress Daily AM, Greenwire, even The Almanac of American Politics, along with The National Journal itself -- will supply MSNBC with statistics and data during the upcoming political campaign. They will also offer their reporters as commentators.
Erik Sorenson, MSNBC's general manager, says there is a surplus of self-styled oracles on cable news and he is tired of it. "It is an industry overrun by opinion, to a fault," he said. "One of the things we want to try to correct in the game of cable news is that as we swing into the coming political season we want to provide a lot more fact-based information. And Hotline and National Journal can do that for us."
Oh no! Does this mean the end of Ann Coulter?
"This does not mean that there won't be a pundit on the air from time to time on MSNBC during the campaign," Mr. Sorenson said. "But we are hoping to have a lot more objective analysis from people in the field and inside the Beltway."
The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal have existing agreements with MSNBC under which they supply reporters to the network for interviews and commentary.
John Fox Sullivan, publisher of The National Journal and The Atlantic Monthly, said MSNBC "is turning to us as a supplier of news, data and information."
"As Bloomberg is to the financial business and economic world, we're trying to be to the political, government and policy worlds," he said.
Michael Kelly, editor of The National Journal and The Atlantic Monthly, has been a frequent guest on MSNBC, as have the National Journal legal columnist Stuart Taylor and the magazine's political columnist, Charles Cook.
But wait a second. Aren't those guys, um, pundits?
Mr. Sullivan said that of the 125 National Journal reporters and editors, very few could be called pundits.
"This is not really an effort on their part to get Stuart Taylor on more often," he said. "We're giving them reporters who are nonideological experts on specific things -- what's going on in Congress -- or segments off of Hotline. They are not in the pundit business of saying, 'This is what ought to happen.' "
 ALEX KUCZYNSKI
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS333319 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MSNBC (CABLE CHANNEL); NATIONAL JOURNAL GROUP WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); CONGRESS DAILY&CONGRESS DAILY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MSNBC (CABLE CHANNEL); NATIONAL JOURNAL GROUP CONGRESS DAILY&CONGRESS DAILY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX STUART TAYLOR (58%); JOHN FOX SULLIVAN (58%); ERIK SORENSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



184 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: New Technology Investment Fund Says It Has Raised $600 Million

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 7

 BODY:
Redpoint Ventures, a technology-focused venture capital firm created in August through the combination of Brentwood Venture Capital and Institutional Venture Partners, plans to announce on Monday that it has raised $600 million in its first fund -- an amount thought to be the largest effort for a first-time technology fund.
Redpoint, based in Menlo Park, Calif., plans to specialize in Internet businesses, including companies devoted to broad-band -- or high speed -- telecommunications technology for Internet use. 
 Redpoint has already made commitments to several investments, including a $15 million stake in Reflect.com, a Web-based, customized beauty business started by Procter & Gamble, which contributed $35 million. Tim Haley and Geoff Yang, Redpoint managing directors, are on the board of Reflect.com.
Internet companies that received venture financing from Redpoint's predecessors include Excite@Home, Ask Jeeves, Tivo, Xylan, Stamps.com and WebTV.
According to the research firm Venture Economics, the $600 million commitment to Redpoint makes it the largest first fund raised by a technology-focused venture capital firm. While in part this reflects investors' interest in new Internet companies, it is also attributable to the fact that Redpoint is the combination of two well-known firms rather than an entirely new entity. Brentwood was founded in 1972 in Southern California, while Institutional Venture Partners was founded in 1980.
"The whole premise of this is we're not starting a new fund; we're building on the platform that I.V.P. and Brentwood had put in place," Tom Dial, a Redpoint managing director, said. "In no case would we have been able to raise a fund this large without the history of the two funds and the partners."
In their August announcement, Institutional Venture Partners and Brentwood said they would combine their efforts in Redpoint, as well as a second firm, Palladium, which will be devoted to biotechnology and other investments related to health care.
With the explosion of the Internet, many diversified venture capital funds have found it hard to reconcile the fast pace and potentially huge returns of Web start-ups with the longer time frames and often smaller returns on new drug companies. Some have virtually abandoned life sciences investments, but Sam Collela, Institutional Venture Partners' founder, has insisted that venture capital will have a continuing role in health care. He will be a managing director of Palladium, while playing a smaller role at Redpoint.
"When you have a diversified fund, there's just less synergy around the table when the partners get together to talk about these deals," Mr. Dial said. "There's a real advantage to having six or seven partners around the table, all of whom are really knowledgeable about the Internet. It just lifts the dialogue."
Redpoint's institutional investors are all previous investors in Brentwood Venture Capital and Institutional Venture Partners, including ARCO, the Carnegie Corporation of New York, Duke Foundation, Ford Foundation, Harvard University, the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York, Princeton University, Rockefeller Foundation, Stanford University, Pfizer Inc. and Yale University. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); STMP (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (95%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (95%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REDPOINT VENTURES BRENTWOOD VENTURE CAPITAL (95%); INSTITUTIONAL VENTURE PARTNERS (95%); REDPOINT VENTURES (94%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); STAMPS.COM INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REDPOINT VENTURES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET VENTURE CAPITAL (95%); INTERNET & WWW (92%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M TOM DIAL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



185 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Treasury to Auction New Five-Year Note

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week includes today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills as well as the quarterly refunding made up of a new five-year note and the reopening of the April 10-year note due 2009.
By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 4.97 percent and a six-month bill was 5.10 percent. In when-issued trading, the five-year note was being offered at a price to yield 5.81 percent, while the current 10-year issue was trading at a price to yield 5.91 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Alliance Atlantis Communications Inc., $200 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2009. B2/B. Goldman Sachs & Co.
Freddie Mac, $3 billion of the reopening of 6.25% five-year reference notes due in 2004. Goldman Sachs.
Metromedia Fiber Network Inc., $600 million of senior notes due in 2009. B2/B+. Salomon Smith Barney.
Park Place Entertainment, $350 million of debt securities. Baa3/BBB-. BancAmerica Securities.
Sovereign Bancorp, $700 million of senior notes. Lehman Brothers.
Westvaco Corp., $400 million of debt securities. A3/ A-. Goldman Sachs.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
WEDNESDAY
Dallas, $60 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Clark County Park, Nev., $107 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Denver, $95.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Charlotte, N.C., $105 million of airport revenue bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Chicago, $300 million of general obligation bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Colorado Health Facility, $50 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Connecticut Housing Facilities Authority, $150 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
Interlocken Metropolitan District, Colo., $74 million of debt securities. Dain Rauscher Inc.
Massachusetts Port Authority, $198 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Miami, Dade County Educational Facility Authority, $175 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Michigan State Hospital. $75 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Nassau County Tobacco, $325 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
State of Ohio, $80 million of general receipt bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Philadelphia, $175 million of debt securities. Prudential Securities.
Virgin Islands Public Finance Authority. $300 million of gross receipt bonds. PaineWebber. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%); SJR (NYSE) (69%); MS (NYSE) (55%); MWV (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (69%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (67%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); NAICS424120 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS322212 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOX MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2657 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOXES, INCLUDING SANITARY (54%); SIC2653 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOXES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (75%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); SHAW COMMUNICATIONS INC (69%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (69%); ABOVENET INC (68%); SANTANDER HOLDINGS USA INC (67%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); MEADWESTVACO CORP (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (51%); NEW YORK (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (75%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES DEBT NOTES (92%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TAX LAW (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); FIBER OPTICS (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); AIRPORT OPERATION (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



186 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VERSUS MICROSOFT: THE POLICY MAKERS;
Despite a Tough Stance or Two, White House Is Still Consolidation Friendly

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7

 BODY:
The Clinton administration may have rattled the house of Bill Gates with its aggressive antitrust case against Microsoft, but it is in the process of winking at some of the older economic empires that in an earlier age dominated American commerce.
In a few days President Clinton is expected to sign a financial services bill repealing the 1933 act that had shattered the house of Morgan. The administration has already approved deals that have resurrected big pieces of the old Bell telephone system, and later this year regulators may approve an $80 billion merger involving Exxon that would restore a chunk of the old Rockefeller oil empire. 
 These and other actions from Washington reflect an enduring legacy of Mr. Clinton's tenure. Assuming the president's signature on new banking legislation that will deregulate Wall Street and usher in a new wave of corporate consolidations, Mr. Clinton and his administration will go down in history as encouraging the largest number of business mergers -- and in some industries the greatest concentration of economic power -- in many years.
While its prosecution of Microsoft for using monopoly power to squelch competition, and a few other notable exceptions, have shown the Clinton administration to be more aggressive on antitrust matters than were the regulators during the Reagan and Bush years, the administration has also been far more tolerant of business mergers than officials earlier in the century and in the 1960's. And the deregulation under Mr. Clinton of telecommunications, financial services and other industries, combined with policies that do not condemn big mergers for their size alone, has led to an unprecedented number of corporate deals.
"We're in the greatest merger wave in history, and yet we are hardly in the greatest litigation wave," said John Shepard Wiley Jr., a professor of antitrust law at the University of California at Los Angeles. "There has been a sea change in attitudes toward large mergers. It's a much different philosophy from the 1960's, when the polestar was the protection of small business."
During the 12 years of the Reagan and Bush administrations, which are widely viewed as among the most permissive antitrust periods of the century, there were 85,064 corporate mergers valued at more than $3.5 trillion, according to the Securities Data Company. Under nearly seven years of the Clinton administration, there have so far been 166,310 deals valued at more than $9.8 trillion.
But the numbers tell only a small part of the story.
Officials in Washington have already approved deals that have put back together huge pieces of the old Ma Bell, reducing the number of regional Bell companies to four from an original seven. The officials are now considering a merger between Sprint and MCI Worldcom that would reduce to two the number of dominant American long-distance carriers, a second deal that will allow AT&T to control more than 35 percent of the cable industry, and a third merger that would give Viacom an ownership interest of at least 35 percent of the broadcast market.
By contrast, in the 1960's, Justice Department officials successfully challenged many relatively small deals, perhaps the most notable of which was the Vons grocery company's proposed acquisition of Shopping Bag Food Stores, in which the combined entity would have controlled only 7.5 percent of the Los Angeles market.
Although the Clinton administration has applied a looser standard of review of mergers and acquisitions than some previous administrations, it has been more aggressive in other areas of antitrust enforcement. It has, for example, brought a number of major price-fixing cases and initiated many important international cartel investigations.
Without doubt, its most prominent monopoly case has been the Microsoft lawsuit, in which a federal judge concluded last week that the company had bullied competitors and stifled innovation. The case fits squarely in the tradition of the antitrust action that the government began in the late 1960's against I.B.M. and AT&T.
In the area of mergers, Clinton officials say that despite the number of large corporate combinations and the emergence of more huge financial conglomerates, the economy is robustly competitive, and that the economies of scale and scope achieved by some of the mergers have served consumers well.
"While there are clearly new challenges for regulation in antitrust," Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers said in an interview last Thursday, "I suspect that in the majority of industries, the degree of competition has increased. Because of technology and openness to trade, in many areas consumers have more choices than ever before. And clearly one reason that inflation is low is that businesses today have less pricing power."
Mr. Summers and other officials say that the globalization of the economy has enlarged the marketplace to more than offset any potential ill effects caused by the wave of mergers. The Treasury secretary also said that the deregulation of major industries, most recently financial businesses, would help those who shop for banking, securities and insurance services.
"This will make the economy more efficient and consumers will benefit from that," he predicted. "As the deregulation of airlines and telecommunications demonstrates, archaic restrictions reduce choice and raise prices."
But critics question the policies in approving the great majority of mergers. In the financial services area, they ask whether regulators will be able to adequately oversee new conglomerates that, should they encounter difficulties, could pose systemwide problems. In telecommunications, they wonder whether the Government has been so permissive as to stifle competition. And more generally, they ask whether the regulators of an earlier day had it right in questioning size for size's sake.
"Teddy Roosevelt is turning over in his grave," said Kenneth Guenther, a top lobbyist for many small banks and savings associations, recalling the 26th president's trust-busting instincts.
Throughout much of the century, Washington viewed big industries and financial conglomerates with great suspicion, reflecting a long-held American fear that concentration was not a good thing, either in the polity or in the economy. There was also a deep distrust of unchecked financial institutions, particularly during times of economic decline, when they were blamed for the nation's economic woes.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt, in a 1934 letter to Carter Glass, the Virginia Senator who co-sponsored the legislation that set up the barriers between investment and commercial banking, wrote: "I should like very much to talk to you about banks underwriting securities. You have had a long period of intimate contact with banking legislation, but I have seen more rotten practices among banks in New York City than you have. Regulations and penalties will not stop them if they want to resume speculation."
By contrast, following one of the biggest economic booms of all times, Washington has become more trusting of Wall Street today, to the point where it was not considered a big deal when former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin announced that he would become a senior official at Citigroup, the nation's largest financial institution and a major beneficiary of the new financial services law that Mr. Rubin had worked so hard to have adopted.
Robert Pitofsky, the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, recalled: "There used to be a populist attitude abroad and in the United States that big was bad, that very large companies treated their workers, their customers and their supplies in ways that weren't entirely fair. The idea was that small towns were better served by small enterprises than by big firms from the East Coast. There is now less mistrust of large companies, and the question is no longer simply whether a firm is big, but whether its size is being used unfairly to restrict competition and hurt consumers. There is less apprehension about bigness than there used to be."
Mr. Pitofsky, a leading antitrust scholar, has been a major proponent of examining big mergers not just by their size, but also by exploring what efficiencies they may create that can redound to the benefit of consumers.
But some experts say that in particular industries, like financial services, deals that may seem either neutral or beneficial to consumers in the short run may come with longer-term costs. Many experts predict that the new financial services legislation will lead to more financial institutions that could pose risks to the whole financial system should they encounter problems.
The major question is whether regulators will be able to adequately supervise the new financial behemoths, a process that one former top official recently likened to "bloodhounds chasing greyhounds."
"We don't have in place the protocols to handle the problems," said Edward J. Kane, a professor of finance at Boston College, who in the 1980's made the most accurate prediction of the impending decacle of the savings and loan industry, which bankrupted a federal deposit insurance fund. "If our government could not discipline the savings and loan industry in the 1960's, 70's and 80's, how will it be able to discipline a Citigroup and other global interests in 2000?"
Mr. Summers said that if anything, the new legislation would reduce certain risks by permitting financial institutions to move into new areas of business. "Diversified institutions are less likely to fail than undiversified institutions," he said. "Financial institutions that are better diversified have safer portfolios."
Other officials, including the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, while broadly endorsing the move to deregulate Wall Street, have spoken of the need to be particularly vigilant about the larger financial institutions soon to emerge.
The new banking legislation also recognizes the particular threats to the system posed by the nation's largest financial institutions by imposing certain new conditions on the 50 biggest ones if they decide to enter into the securities or insurance businesses.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Merger Surge" tracks mergers and acquisitions, domestic and international, involving American companies, by number and total value, from 1981-1997. (Source: Securities Data Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP MICROSOFT CORP (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); SECURITIES DATA CO INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); DEREGULATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); APPROVALS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); BANKING LAW (69%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); LITIGATION (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LABATON, STEPHEN; BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; JACKSON, THOMAS PENFIELD (JUDGE) BILL CLINTON (92%); BILL GATES (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



187 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: U. of Cambridge and M.I.T. In Joint Research Venture

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Seeking to import a measure of New World innovation and technology to the Old World, the British government will announce a $108 million investment today in a joint venture that will link research and educational programs at the University of Cambridge in England with those at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The Cambridge-M.I.T. Institute, as the new enterprise will be known, will seek to develop technologies, products and companies to improve the productivity and competitiveness of British manufacturing industries, officials of the two universities said yesterday. 
 The new institute will receive 80 percent of its planned $135 million budget over the next five years from the British government, with the remaining $27 million to be raised from British industry. Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the Exchequer, is expected to announce the agreement today in London.
The agreement is unusual in several ways, education experts say. Though universities often establish joint research programs, rarely do those efforts receive any significant investment up front. Equally rare are programs in which a foreign government pays for the expertise of an American university and its faculty.
"The aim is not so much to develop specific technologies as to enhance the culture of entrepreneurship at Cambridge and the understanding of how a university can work with industry," Charles Vest, the president of M.I.T., said. "We will be giving them access to our decade and a half of experience working to couple engineering and management and working in partnership with industries on manufacturing, product development and industrial competitiveness."
Robert M. Zemsky, director of the Institute for Research in Higher Education at the University of Pennsylvania, said the agreement demonstrated how universities, like private industries, were trying to adjust to a more competitive world. "We're seeing the emergence of a world market for name-brand education," he said.
But, Mr. Zemsky added, the Cambridge-M.I.T. Institute seems to have a built-in advantage.
"The key is that the British government seems to be putting real money on the table," he said. "These types of joint ventures are more often formed out of good will but with no real money behind them."
The Cambridge-M.I.T. Institute's activities will also include exchanges of undergraduates, graduate students and faculty members between the two universities, which will build computer and other technological links to foster the development of virtual classrooms that span the Atlantic Ocean.
The agreement to be announced today is a preliminary one, Mr. Vest said, with many important details to be worked out. Among them are what compensation, if any, the British government will receive if the research projects undertaken by the new institute result in technologies or products that can be licensed or sold for profit.
Mr. Vest said he did not think the programs undertaken by the new institute would trigger controls on exports of American technology. "We have informed a few people in the federal government that this was under discussion, and we received a very positive reaction," he said.
In addition, Mr. Vest said, the benefits will flow to American students and industries as well as to those in Britain. "We're aiming to build a better global basis of education for M.I.T. students and the people who will lead businesses in this country in the future," he said.
Sir Alec Broers, the vice chancellor of the University of Cambridge, said the joint venture with M.I.T. could "create entrepreneurs who can use their inspiration and perspiration to build a stronger British economy." He added, "They could change the face of entrepreneurship and wealth creation in the U.K."
M.I.T. has extensive experience working with profit-making companies to develop new methods of engineering and manufacturing, and the university's faculty members, students and alumni have had a hand in the founding of more than 4,000 companies. According to a 1997 study by the university, those companies employed more than 1.1 million people and, in 1994 alone, generated $232 billion in sales around the world. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (51%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY; CAMBRIDGE-MIT INSTITUTE MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (72%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY; CAMBRIDGE-MIT INSTITUTE MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (51%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES IMPORT TRADE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); DISTANCE LEARNING (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TRENDS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXPORT CONTROLS (60%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD GORDON BROWN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



188 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VERSUS MICROSOFT: THE HOMETOWN;
Soaring Seattle Comes Abruptly Down to Earth

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Nov. 7

 BODY:
Three of the world's richest men, their wealth derived from the Microsoft Corporation, live in the Seattle area. The company's market valuation alone is nearly half a trillion dollars, and its presence is a huge reason that 2,500 other high-technology companies are congregated here.
Most of those start-ups are near Microsoft on the east side of Lake Washington, and many were started by Microsoft alumni. Their combined market value is roughly another half-trillion dollars, according to a study by the Eastside Economic Council, a business and civic group. 
 Microsoft, in short, has transformed Seattle, almost single-handedly saving the region from a recession a few years ago during a downturn at the city's largest employer, Boeing.
More recently, Microsoft has fueled a boom here that is the subject of heated local debate. Some Seattleites celebrate the growth, while others complain it is turning a once unassuming, comfortable town into a glitzy, traffic-clogged mess.
But now, after a withering denunciation of the region's Golden Goose by a federal judge, people here are debating a different question: What will this mean for the region?
Not much, many insist. They note that the company's stock price was $43 on the day the government filed its case in May 1998 and has more than doubled since then.
Only good things, say others. They invoke the advice of John D. Rockefeller when he heard his oil monopoly was being broken up by the Supreme Court in 1911: buy Standard Oil. The magnate rightly predicted the stock would be worth far more divided into a bunch of new companies.
And then there are the doomsday, turn-out-the-lights scenarios. An article in The Seattle Post-Intelligencer on Saturday, the day after the judge's finding was issued, even carried speculation that the software giant might desert its woodsy campus in the suburb of Redmond and high-tail it for the Cayman Islands, beyond the reach of United States antitrust laws. ("Unlikely but not impossible," the newspaper said.)
No one knows, of course, what will happen in the end. And for now, even with many local leaders decrying the judge's finding as an unfair attack on the hometown team, there is no discernible sense of panic.
"The main reaction I've noticed is that it's kind of exciting as a news event, but people don't seem to see dire outcomes down the road," said Fred Moody, managing editor of The Seattle Weekly and author of "I Sing the Body Electronic: A Year with Microsoft on the Multimedia Frontier (Viking, 1995)." "The attitude clearly is, there's a long way to go."
The judge's findings that Microsoft unfairly uses its monopoly power to bully and thwart competition has also touched an ambivalent chord here about the company's chairman, William H. Gates.
"Gates himself personifies the company, and there are a lot of mixed feelings," Mr. Moody said. "He is obviously a local kid who made good. It's a lot of fun to see a Seattle person taking on the world, being defiant and refusing to lose."
On the other hand, he added, people in Seattle have the same aversions that anyone else does to someone who is too rich and too powerful. Besides, he said, "A lot of people equate Microsoft with the personal computer, and just because computers can be so frustrating, they think it's all Microsoft's fault."
Mark Dabek, a co-owner of Re-PC, a Seattle store and Web site that sells recycled computers and peripherals, said he generally admired Microsoft and believed that the company wasn't getting enough credit from the judge or the government for sparking innovation in the high-technology industry and for providing good standards for software.
But, having said that, he added that many of his customers were reacting with glee to the government's gains in the antitrust case.
"They feel as though Microsoft has literally led them down a path they don't necessarily want to go down," Mr. Dabek said. "They don't like the Windows operating system, but they feel they have to go along with it because everybody uses it."
Microsoft and the high-technology industry have created tens of thousands of jobs here. Microsoft alone employs about 17,500 people in the region and says it is looking for about 2,000 more. And while the "packaged software" industry, which excludes Internet ventures, employs only about one-fourth the numbers employed by Boeing and the rest of the aerospace industry here, it generates more wages: roughly $6.8 billion compared with $5.5 billion, according to a 1998 study by the state's Employment Security Department.
Those gains have created tensions, as the image of a blue-collar Seattle where anyone could make a good living and no one's wealth was on display has been replaced by dot-com millionaires with hugely expensive homes and cars.
In the main, state and local leaders here jumped to Microsoft's defense within hours of the release of Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's findings, which could lead to significant changes for the software maker.
Both United States senators and Gov. Gary Locke issued statements that supported the company.
Representative Jennifer Dunn, a Republican who represents the Eastside communities where so many technology companies are based, said she was "fearful of government attempts to regulate this dynamic and competitive industry." And the state's chief economist, Chang Mook Sohn, told reporters that "anything that hurts Microsoft hurts the state's economy -- no question about that."
But others question whether the antitrust action really will hurt Microsoft in the end, even if the outcome is a draconian remedy.
"If the company breaks up some day, that's not automatically bad," said Dick Conway, co-publisher of The Puget Sound Economic Forecaster, a newsletter. "That was certainly the case with AT&T, that the parts were greater than the whole, and that certainly is conceivable here."
Mr. Conway made clear that he was not predicting a break-up.
But the Standard Oil and AT&T cases differ from the Microsoft matter in a way that is significant to Seattle. In the former cases, there were clear geographical divisions that could be carved out of the corporate empire. In Microsoft's case, such divisions would seem meaningless, given the ubiquity of software.
So one important local question if a break-up were ever ordered would be how many of the divided parts would remain based here.
On the other hand, a great deal of the economic activity Microsoft has generated here is taking place outside the company campus anyway. Microsoft AlumNet, a 3,000-member group that supports the business and philanthropic activities of company alumni, says that more than a third of those members have started their own technology companies or consulting practices here, or hold top positions in other start-ups.
Companies like RealNetworks and Onyx Software are full of Microsoft alumni. What's more, many analysts say the real growth here is in Internet companies like Amazon.com, InfoSpace.com, Go2Net and others.
News of Judge Jackson's findings capped a long, tense week in Seattle. A crash of a Boeing plane, like the EgyptAir Boeing 767 last Sunday, is always a big story here. Political leaders wrung their hands over passage of a statewide anti-tax measure that threatened stark budget problems. And an office shooting left two people dead and a killer at large.
"It's kind of an unusual week for Seattle," said Mr. Conway, the economist. "No matter how the world might view Seattle as one of these great livable places, we've got a lot of problems, too, and a lot of those problems are beyond our control. For a city that generates a lot of happy stories, this is the week that brings us down to reality."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A plaque on the Microsoft campus in Redmond, Wash., sets out the company's official goals. But a federal judge's findings last week put those goals in a somewhat different light. (Dan Lamont/Matrix); Detractors of Microsoft's operating system are delighted by the findings against the company. Workers at a Microsoft plant in Bothell, Wash., packed Windows 98 last year. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (99%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC MICROSOFT CORP (94%); BOEING CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE (WASH); UNITED STATES (99%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (99%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); JUDGES (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); TRENDS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); VERDICTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); WRITERS (65%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, THOMAS PENFIELD (JUDGE); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE JAY ROCKEFELLER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



189 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VERSUS MICROSOFT: THE INDUSTRY;
Silicon Valley Cites Concern Amid Glee on Microsoft Case

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF with STEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif., Nov. 7

 BODY:
In Silicon Valley, the nation's high-technology capital, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's powerful findings in the Microsoft antitrust case have been received with a sense of vindication but also ambivalence.
In issuing his findings of fact on Friday evening, Judge Jackson delivered two implicit yet unmistakable messages to the industry. Yes, he found, there is indeed a "Microsoft problem" in the computer business, and the software monopolist's bullying tactics hurt consumers and undermine innovation. He also found that there was nothing special about the software industry. For purposes of antitrust, he found, this high-technology world was not much different than any other bricks-and-mortar business. 
 So any satisfaction in Silicon Valley that the judge shares the locally prevailing view of Microsoft is offset by concern that his document is a step toward greater government intervention in the high-technology economy.
The judge's findings are not a final ruling in the case, but they will almost certainly serve as the framework for the outcome of the case -- either in court or in an out-of-court settlement between the Microsoft Corporation and the government.
"This document does change the landscape," said Jim Breyer, managing partner for Accel Partners, a venture capital firm here.
In short, the judge's framing of the facts increases the prospect of mandated changes in Microsoft's corporate behavior, if not more sweeping measures that, in theory, could include breaking up the company. And the Justice Department affirmed today that it had not ruled out seeking any of those options. Page A23.
Much has changed in the computer business since the government filed its sweeping antitrust suit against Microsoft in May 1998. But industry executives here say the issues raised in the trial are still crucial to the nation's high-technology economy.
It is true, they note, that most of the venture capital and entrepreneurial effort in Silicon Valley these days is focused on Internet start-ups. At these start-ups, the software and electronic commerce services are built to work on the Internet's World Wide Web rather than being bound to Microsoft's Windows operating system. Such an evolution has become known as the post-PC era, which some experts say is already aborning and beyond Microsoft's control as people increasingly tap into the Web using everything from hand-held devices to TV set-top boxes.
Still, the personal computer remains the primary avenue to the Web, and that promises to continue for years. And the federal antitrust case focuses largely on how Microsoft may have used the market power from its Windows monopoly to try to stifle the challenge from Internet software.
Whether Microsoft can use its dominance in personal computing to give it the upper hand in the Internet era, industry executives say, will be an important policy issue for years.
"Some people think we're in some post-PC era, but we're not, and this issue really matters," said John Doerr, a partner in Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a leading venture firm that has backed both Internet start-ups aligned with Microsoft and leading Microsoft rivals like Sun Microsystems and America Online.
Still, there are aspects of Judge Jackson's findings of fact that give people here second thoughts. The judge's sweeping castigation of Microsoft's business practices deals largely with how the company's restrictive contracts thwarted efforts by personal computer makers, Internet service providers and others to promote, distribute or use the products of rivals.
But in his findings, Judge Jackson made some fine-tuned judgments about the software business. He found that the computer operating system and Internet browsing software were separate products. Microsoft, however, chose to fold its browsing software into Windows -- and in a separate but related case, a Federal appeals court said Microsoft was free to do that as long as it could make "any plausible claim" of business efficiency or consumer benefit from doing so.
Judge Jackson went further. He found that by putting its browser in the operating system, Microsoft made Windows 98 unnecessarily buggy. That decision, he wrote, "unjustifiably jeopardized the stability and security of the operating system."
Just what does and does not belong in a computer operating system can make for fascinating and impassioned debate among software programmers. But the idea of a federal court or the government second-guessing such decisions is one that makes many industry executives and experts leery, even those who are critical of Microsoft.
"Everyone in the industry is uncomfortable with the choke hold that Microsoft has," said Hal R. Varian, dean of the school of information management and systems at the University of California at Berkeley. "But they are also uncomfortable with having the government get involved in software design decisions."
To be sure, industry executives are not shy about offering solutions for curbing Microsoft's power, and have done so since before the suit was filed. They run the gamut from restricting Microsoft's power to write restrictive contracts to forcing the company to publish its software protocols to breaking up the company.
Nearly all the proposed solutions are problematic. Breaking up the company by separating the Windows operating system business from Microsoft Office productivity programs, for example, runs the risk of merely creating two monopolies instead of one. Microsoft's market share in programs like word processing, spreadsheets and presentation software is even higher than its share of the operating system market.
Mandating that Microsoft openly publish the underlying "source" code for Windows -- another sweeping potential sanction mentioned -- runs the risk of reducing Microsoft's incentives to innovate because other software companies, at no cost, would get the technology Microsoft had invested to build.
"The fundamental challenge for the government and the courts is to come up with a set of remedies that really do help consumers instead of doing more harm than good," said David Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School.
Yet many industry executives agree on what the policy goal should be in dealing with Microsoft: keeping the basic technology standards an open, public resource in the Internet era. Common technology standards have been catalysts for the growth of industries for centuries.
"The personal computer industry has benefited greatly by the establishment of technology standards, but they happen to be owned by Microsoft," observed Richard Shaffer, principal of Technologic Partners, a consulting firm in New York and San Francisco. "And for the Internet and electronic commerce to flourish, we need standards for security, payment and software protocols. But the objective has to be that nobody -- no single company -- becomes the next Microsoft in this new world."
Esther Dyson, editor of Release 1.0, an industry newsletter, added: "From a policy standpoint, what you want to do is create an environment of dynamic instability where everyone, including Microsoft, has to innovate constantly to move forward without getting the government deeply involved. You don't want Microsoft controlling the industry, but you don't want the government controlling it either."
Microsoft's top executives cringe at the suggestion that they control the key technology or the pace of innovation in computing -- in the PC era or any other.
"There is no control," Steven A. Ballmer, the president of Microsoft, said. "If customers don't want to upgrade to the next version of Windows, they don't have to. And if anybody wants to innovate on top of us or alongside us, they can."
In an interview, Mr. Ballmer said the rise of new technologies like Web-based software and the Linux operating system represented a cataclysmic change in the software business. "We have no guaranteed position in this new Internet era," he said. "To me, it sure doesn't feel like we control things."
More and more, Microsoft's challengers hope that Mr. Ballmer proves to be correct. In his findings of fact, Judge Jackson found that Microsoft's grip on the industry would not be loosened any time soon by Linux or another rival operating system, BeOS. The judge called both "fringe" technologies and found that neither posed a challenge to Windows in the foreseeable future.
"I loathe Microsoft, and there's no question it's a monopoly," said Eric Raymond, a programmer, author and Linux evangelist. "But I think Judge Jackson underestimated the competitive threat that Linux presents."
Jean-Louis Gassee, founder of Be Inc., maker of BeOS, said he founded his company because he felt Microsoft's grip on the industry was loosening. The Microsoft suit and the rise of Linux, he said, "made it possible to consider a fringe operating system" -- and, he added, to consider the possibility that it could make inroads against Microsoft.
After the judge's findings, he says, his chances could improve. "It's a staggering document," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP MICROSOFT CORP (93%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SUITS AND LITIGATION ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); STARTUPS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); JUDGES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (61%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, THOMAS PENFIELD (JUDGE); MARKOFF, JOHN; LOHR, STEVE THOMAS PENFIELD JACKSON (72%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



190 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1835 words

HEADLINE: Hearings Offer View Into Private Banking

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7

 BODY:
In 1997, federal bank examiners were pressing executives at Citibank Private Bank to explain the source of more than $50 million deposited into a secret account controlled by the president of Gabon, Omar Bongo, bank and Senate documents show.
Existing Citibank profiles said President Bongo's wealth was created as "a result of his position" and "donations" from a French oil company doing business in the African nation, according to the documents. But a draft report by Democratic Senate investigators found that in responding to regulators, Citibank produced a new profile showing other sources of the wealth -- information the report says is inaccurate and unverified. 
 This week, Citibank's handling of private accounts like Mr. Bongo's will be the subject of Senate hearings. The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations is examining the vulnerability of private banking to money laundering.
In recent years, billions of dollars have left fragile economies, from Russia to Mexico, facilitated by Western bankers. The Senate hearings, whose witnesses will include Citibank executives and federal regulators, will offer the first detailed public look at one of the most secretive parts of the global financial system, private banking, in which wealthy customers are afforded extra discretion and care. The hearings come at a time when previously acceptable practices in private banking are undergoing new scrutiny.
President Bongo's account is one of several the Senate is investigating that are tied to prominent foreign political leaders or their families, in Mexico, Venezuela, Nigeria and Pakistan as well as Gabon. Citibank's private banking clients included such controversial figures as the sons of Gen. Sani Abacha, the Nigerian dictator; Raul Salinas de Gortari, the brother of Mexico's former president, and Asif Ali Zadari, the husband of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan.
In 1997, federal examiners were looking at whether Mr. Bongo's transactions should be reported as suspicious. American law bans banks from moving money earned abroad from some crimes, like drug trafficking, but not corruption. A central tenet of banking is to know your customer, and banks are required to report certain suspicious transactions to regulators.
Yet, the committee's staff report notes, "there is currently no statutory, regulatory or industry guidance of what is adequate due diligence."
So in 1997 the regulators felt reassured after Citibank officials told them that Mr. Bongo's transactions "are normal for the head of state of an African country," according to portions of the examiners' report quoted by Senate investigators.
Mr. Bongo's profile had been revised in 1997 to say his wealth stemmed primarily from government budgeted accounts and personal oil investments in Gabon and other African countries. Senate investigators, however, found the explanations unverified and, in the first case, "implausible and plainly contrary to Gabon's budget policy and actual spending," the draft report says.
Citibank documents show that bank officials were aware of news reports that Mr. Bongo was under investigation for possibly accepting bribes from French oil executives, but they were reluctant to raise those reports with Mr. Bongo or regulators, according to the draft report.
Mr. Bongo has not been charged with any wrongdoing. A spokesman for the Gabon Embassy in Washington declined to comment.
A Citibank spokesman said bank officials believed that President Bongo's wealth came from legitimate sources and that he had been "considered a distinguished head of government, supported and embraced by U.S. presidents."
Meanwhile, Citibank has moved to close Mr. Bongo's account, one of 40,000 at Citibank Private Bank. Citibank estimates that only 350 of the private bank's customers are public officials or their families.
The closing of Mr. Bongo's account follows moves by the bank's senior management to tighten supervision of sensitive accounts and to keep the bank from being used for improper purposes.
John Reed, the chairman and co-chief executive of Citigroup, the parent of Citibank, is expected to tell the Senate committee about Citibank's new measures against money laundering and a policy adopted last year to shy away from seeking out public figures as private bank clients, according to people familiar with his prepared testimony. He is also expected to discuss how regulators now find significant improvements in the private bank's internal controls.
The Citibank documents make clear the potential pitfalls for one of the world's most powerful and prestigious financial institutions. The Senate inquiry is such a sensitive matter for Citigroup that it hired two former senior White House lawyers, C. Boyden Gray of the Bush administration and Jane Sherburne of the Clinton administration, to help the bank prepare and respond.
One Senate investigator said Citibank had once lobbied to have a 1992 check for $1 million from Libya to a Bongo account offshore unfrozen by the United States government, contending that Citibank could lose its business in Gabon if the payment remained frozen by anti-terrorism statutes.
Mark Musi, the chief compliance officer for Citibank Private Bank, said, "The Private Bank never has had a strategy to link efforts to get or retain a head of state's personal business in order to develop other business in that country." He added that Citibank's business in Gabon is "extremely small" and unaffected by the decision to close the Bongo account.
But Raymond Baker, a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution who is scheduled to testify at the hearings, worries that when Western banks help the powerful elite in less developed countries to hide their wealth -- some of which may be ill gotten -- they undercut the efforts by Western governments and entities like the International Monetary Fund to help the economies of those poorer countries.
"It is Western taxpayers who are paying it out over the table to these countries and the private banks who take it back under the table," Mr. Baker said in an interview.
He is concerned that Western banks that move corrupt money out of poorer countries may aid the client in committing crimes like tax evasion, illegal capital flight and false trade invoicing, all of which fall outside the reach of American money laundering statutes. But this movement of money, Mr. Baker added, sucks $100 billion per year out of poorer countries.
In many ways, the interest in Citibank Private Bank stems from its involvement with Mr. Salinas. Mr. Reed is expected to tell the Senate panel that the bank has learned a lot from the now well-known Salinas affair, even though it has never been cited for any legal or regulatory violations.
Between 1992 and 1994 the bank moved between $80 million and $100 million through Mr. Salinas's accounts, using extra confidential methods that the General Accounting Office, the audit arm of Congress, later found "disguised" the "origin, destination and beneficial owner of the funds."
Mr. Reed is to tell the committee that while Citibank failed then to follow its own policy, it now has much tougher rules.
The Senate panel turned up some new details in the Salinas case, including transcripts of phone calls between Citibank officials. After Mr. Salinas's arrest in 1995 on murder charges -- he was later convicted of participating in the murder of his former brother-in-law -- the initial reaction of Citibank was to see whether his money could be shifted to Switzerland to make it more difficult for law enforcement officials to discover his assets, according to Senate aides. That idea was rejected, the aides said, when it was discovered that bank records in London and the United States, which could not be destroyed, would point to the Swiss accounts.
The committee has also examined the case of Mr. Zadari, a former senator in Pakistan. Mr. Zadari, currently in jail on corruption charges, had about $40 million in Citibank Private Bank in Geneva.
The bank has not been accused of wrongdoing, but internal Citibank audits as well as audits by federal bank examiners continually criticized managerial deficiencies in Citibank Private Bank in Switzerland, Senate documents show.
Those audits and the investigation of the Salinas money led Mr. Reed to write to Citibank's board of directors in November 1997.
"We live in a world where we have to worry about 'how someone made his/her money,' which did not used to be an issue," he said, according to portions of the letter excerpted in the Democratic draft report. "Much that we had done to keep Private Banking private becomes 'wrong' in the current environment."
Another case study in the Senate inquiry involves the accounts of two of General Abacha's sons -- one of whom, Muhammad, has just been charged in Nigeria with the murder of the wife of his father's leading opponent.
The New York private banker for the Nigerian account -- the same person who handled Mr. Bongo's account -- told staff investigators that for three years he thought his clients were Nigerian businessmen rather than the sons of Nigeria's military leader, the staff report says.
When General Abacha died unexpectedly in June 1998, the Nigerian government began looking into his family's wealth and billions of dollars of missing money. With the corruption inquiry under way, Citibank got a request from one of the general's sons, saying he urgently needed $39 million from the London account, records show. But the money was in a time deposit that could not be redeemed for a while without a financial penalty, the staff report says.
Citibank had long accommodated the Abacha family by setting up accounts with secret names like Gelsobella and Chinquinto. So the private bank found a way to immediately transfer the $39 million and avoid the penalty, documents show.
Citibank records one month later say the transfer was meant to be the first step in the closing of the account by the client.
But last March, before the account could be closed, a London court issued an order in a civil suit freezing all accounts related to General Abacha.
Citigroup's lawyers have argued that the Senate committee is on shaky jurisdictional grounds because American money laundering statutes cover only proceeds of activities in foreign countries that fall under three categories of offenses: certain drug crimes, certain violent crimes, and fraud by or against a foreign bank, according to a letter last month to the committee from Mr. Gray.
The letter goes on to say that the Democratic staff believes that money in the accounts of Mr. Bongo, General Abacha's sons and Jaime Lusinchi, a former president of Venezuela, may have been "derived from corruption or other improper acts against a foreign government." Even if true, Mr. Gray says in the letter, those offenses do not constitute crimes in the United States and thus fall outside the committee's jurisdiction. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); 

COUNTRY: GABON (94%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (73%); 

COMPANY: CITIBANK CITIGROUP PRIVATE BANK (58%); SENATE PERMANENT SUBCOMMITTEE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIBANK SENATE PERMANENT SUBCOMMITTEE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GABON; GABON (94%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY LAUNDERING; ETHICS PRIVATE BANKING (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); CORRUPTION (75%); WITNESSES (75%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); ETHICS (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; BONGO, OMAR (PRES) BENAZIR BHUTTO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



191 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: As New York City Immigration Thrives, Diversity Broadens

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS 

 BODY:
New York City is ending the century as it began -- oxygenated by immigrants -- with the new arrivals coming from an increasingly diverse set of nations and settling over a broader swath of the city than ever before, according to a study by the Department of City Planning to be released today.
From 1990 through 1996, about 113,000 immigrants arrived in the city each year, rivaling the numbers that flowed to the five boroughs through Ellis Island from just a few countries in southern and Eastern Europe at the turn of the century. 
 By comparison, not only do the newest New Yorkers come from places spanning the globe, but since national and ethnic quotas were eliminated in 1965, no one nationality or even ethnic group has predominated.
The results are evident in the city's many polyglot neighborhoods, where products of a dozen different countries are sold in stores on a single block, and in the city's schools, which have had to accommodate children of 196 different nationalities over the last few years.
"The increasing diversity of the stream is characteristic of New York's immigration and one of its strengths," said Joseph B. Rose, the director of the Planning Department.
The sheer variety and numbers of immigrants coming to New York City have already begun to change its ethnic and racial balance, so that no one group has an absolute majority.
City planners now predict that by next year, the group that once held a clear majority -- non-Hispanic whites -- will have declined to 35 percent of the total population. At the same time, the Hispanic share of the population will be 29 percent, the non-Hispanic black share will be 26 percent and Asians will make up 10 percent of the population. In 1970, non-Hispanic whites accounted for 63 percent; Hispanics, 16 percent; non-Hispanic blacks, 19 percent; and Asians, 2 percent.
Another result of the sustained flow of immigrants has been to offset drops in the city's population caused by deaths and migration.
"Without immigration, we would have had net population declines, and we would be like some of the older cities, like Detroit, where they have had devastating population losses," said Rae Rosen, senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. But, she added, the steady flow of new immigrants has also taxed some city resources like the already overcrowded school system.
The report by the Planning Department focuses on newly available data about immigrants who settled in New York City in 1995 and 1996. A more detailed report, which covered the period between 1990 and 1994, was released three years ago.
There were no dramatic shifts between the periods, although immigration did increase slightly over the years and the relative weight of some groups shifted. Caribbean and Latin American immigration slowed, for example, while the numbers of Russians and people from the former Soviet republics coming in each year surged.
But taken together, the two reports document significant changes in all five boroughs.
Over the seven years, the greatest numbers of people came from the Dominican Republic, the former Soviet Union and China, a change from the 1980's, when Jamaica held the second-place spot.
The fastest-growing groups, according to the city planning report, were from Ghana, Nigeria, Bangladesh and Egypt. Those countries, among others, benefited from the introduction of a visa lottery system that was aimed at giving opportunities to people from a wider range of countries.
Although their numbers are still small -- only 5,000 immigrants from Ghana arrived in the first seven years of the decade -- the first arrivals from a country generally become the seeds of future immigration as they bring family members to join them.
Barely a neighborhood in the city has not felt the impact of this decade's immigrants. Manhattan, for example, absorbed 14 percent of the new arrivals in the first seven years, most of them from Israel, Japan, Canada and Brazil. And nearly 12,000 immigrants, chiefly from China, the former Soviet Union, the Philippines and India, have settled on Staten Island, which has attracted few new immigrants in the past.
More than a third of all the immigrants during this period settled in Brooklyn. Immigrants from former Soviet republics led the way, accounting for one in three of the new Brooklyn residents, but substantial numbers of Dominicans, Chinese, Jamaicans, Guyanese, Poles and Haitians also came.
The same trend emerged in Queens, which has long been a magnet for immigrants. It received substantial numbers of every national group, with the largest influx from the Dominican Republic, the former Soviet Union and China.
The tight housing market meant that immigrants sought housing all over the city. Nearly one in three newly arrived Dominicans, instead of concentrating in the traditional enclave in Washington Heights in Manhattan, settled in Queens or Brooklyn.
Similarly, more than half of the new arrivals from China and Taiwan moved into neighborhoods outside the city's three Chinatowns in Manhattan; Sunset Park, Brooklyn; and Flushing, Queens.
Where the immigrants first settled, however, is not necessarily where they have remained. The settlement patterns listed in the Planning Department report were derived from information immigrants provided to the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service at the time they obtained permanent resident status. A more complete picture of where immigrants come from, where they live and what they do will be provided after the 2000 census.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Settling in the City" -- More than 230,000 immigrants settled in New York City in 1995 and 1996, for an annual average of 115,700. According to the city's Department of Planning, this is a nearly 3 percent increase.
 
WHERE THEY SETTLED: Map of New York city shows number of new immigrants,
1995-96, by ZIP code.
 
WHERE THERE CAME FROM
Under 750 Top 20 source countries, annual average
1995-96.
 
Former Soviet Union -- 20,327
Dominican Rep. -- 19,587
China -- 11,871
Jamaica -- 5,591
Guyana -- 5,570
Bangladesh -- 3,674
India -- 3,174
Haiti -- 3,048
Ecuador -- 2,983
Trinidad and Tobago -- 2,774
Phillippines -- 2,673
Poland -- 2,669
Pakistan -- 2,337
Colombia -- 2,275
Ghana -- 1,633
Korea -- 1,574
Nigeria -- 1,374
Former Yugoslavia -- 1,219
Peru -- 1,113
Egypt -- 1,071
 
(Source: New York City Department of Planning)(pg. B1)
 
Graph/Maps: "Finding a Home Away From Home"
Brooklyn and Queens absorbed most of New York Cirty's new immigrant population in 1995 and 1996. Chart/Map provides a look at where the new residents settled. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GHANA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%); ECUADOR (79%); HAITI (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); GUYANA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); POLAND (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GHANA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%); ECUADOR (79%); HAITI (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); GUYANA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); POLAND (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS IMMIGRATION (94%); ETHNICITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (86%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); CITIES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); TRENDS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); 

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



192 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Brings Out Contrast in Candidates

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7

 BODY:
The debate over health policy being waged in the Democratic presidential primary is not simply about cost estimates, political positioning and appeals to Democratic constituencies. Health policy experts say Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley have very different visions about how to deal with the nation's 44.3 million uninsured.
Both men, these experts say, were clearly affected by the failure of President Clinton's health care proposal in 1994. But they responded to that history in different ways. Mr. Bradley is proposing a big program, without the government mandates and cost controls of the Clinton plan, and he is being accused of promising more than he can deliver. Mr. Gore chose to build incrementally on existing programs, and he is being accused of aiming too low. 
 Mr. Bradley would create a vast system of subsidies and tax credits that would, he says, cover all children and provide access to affordable coverage to all adults. It would allow anyone to buy private insurance through the program that insures federal workers, the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. And the people who depend on Medicaid, the 34-year-old program for the poor, for their health insurance would be "mainstreamed" into this system with federal subsidies.
Mr. Gore's plan would try to guarantee access to health coverage to all children by 2005 by expanding eligibility for the Children's Health Insurance Program, which was established two years ago for children in families not poor enough for Medicaid but not affluent enough to buy private insurance. It would also allow their uninsured parents to enroll in that program. And it would allow many uninsured Americans ages 55 to 65 to buy into the Medicare program, a proposal made previously by the Clinton administration.
So far, a new survey suggests, the health care debate between Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley is playing to a tiny audience. Only 6 percent said they were following news of Mr. Bradley's proposal very closely, while only 8 percent were following Mr. Gore's, a Kaiser Family Foundation/Harvard study conducted Oct. 22-26 found.
But health policy experts are taking this debate seriously, recognizing that the ideas thrashed out in the 1992 presidential campaign framed the legislative struggle of the following two years. And many of them said they were thrilled to see the issue come back -- and eager to see the Republicans follow suit.
"For me, the story is that a candidate running for president of the United States has put the issue of the uninsured front and center in his campaign, five years after every political pundit said it would be a generation before any politician would be willing to talk about it again," said Robert Reischauer, an economist at the Brookings Institution who directed the Congressional Budget Office during the last health care struggle.
Despite Mr. Bradley's decision to go for a big, comprehensive health care program with a price tag he estimates at $65 billion a year, many analysts see his plan as a departure from past Democratic orthodoxy. He envisions a major expansion in coverage -- raising the proportion of Americans with health insurance to 95 percent from 84 percent, and covering virtually all children. But he rejects past Democratic strategies, like a new government insurance program or a requirement that employers provide insurance to their workers -- the so-called employer mandate that was the cornerstone of the Clinton plan.
Instead, Mr. Bradley proposes a new system of government subsidies and tax credits to help low-income Americans buy private coverage. "Bradley is using what traditionally have been conservative means to achieve a liberal end," said Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation.
Under the Bradley plan, every child would be required to have health insurance, but the government would provide substantial assistance with the cost. For children in households with incomes under $32,800 (about twice the poverty level for families of four), the government would make a full premium payment, estimated at $1,200, to the federally approved health plan of the parents' choice. That subsidy would be tied to income, paid on a sliding scale and phased out at $49,200 for a family of four. Families and individuals would receive a tax break to offset the costs of premiums.
Mr. Bradley estimates that 84 percent of the nation's 11 million uninsured children would receive a full or partial subsidy.
Low-income adults would also be eligible for subsidies to help cover insurance premiums, with full annual premium costs up to $1,800 paid for adults with incomes below $16,400 (for a family of four) and a partial subsidy available to adults in families with incomes up to $32,800. People could stay with their current coverage or buy a plan through the federal employees health plan.
The Bradley plan would also essentially dismantle Medicaid, the federal and state program that covers health care for poor people, including many elderly Americans in nursing homes. The federal government would take over the acute care portions of the program, providing full subsidies to buy insurance for eligible people. And the states would take over the institutional long-term care part of the program. This system of subsidies and tax credits would also cover children in the Children's Health Insurance Program.
Margy Heldring, the campaign's health coordinator, said the Medicaid move was an effort to eliminate the stigma attached to the program and "mainstream" its beneficiaries into the private insurance market. Already, she said, more than half of the Medicaid beneficiaries have been moved to managed care in the states.
Mr. Bradley gets high marks from health policy experts for recognizing what many consider a crisis in health coverage, particularly the failure of employer-sponsored insurance to cover millions of American workers, and for putting serious money on the table to combat it. But the subsidy and tax credit approach, while increasingly popular in the past few years as politicians look for alternatives to employer mandates, is no magic bullet, experts say.
In general, many health experts say, such plans can end up spending a lot of public money for people who already have insurance, because the subsidy is based on income, not whether they are insured. "It's a more inefficient way to do it," said Stuart Altman, a professor of health policy at Brandeis and a longtime supporter of an employer mandate.
Ken Thorpe, a former Clinton health adviser now on the faculty of Emory University who said he was neutral in the race despite claims of bias from Bradley aides, said, "The bulk of the kids who fall within these income brackets already have health insurance." Such plans could also, some say, inadvertently encourage employers to reduce their responsibilities for coverage.
Mr. Bradley's promise of universal access has won praise from many health care advocates, who are delighted to see an ambitious new approach to the problem of the uninsured. But the Gore campaign asserts that Mr. Bradley is simply making promises that do not add up. "It's absurd to go making promises on this that literally will never be kept because the money will never be there," said Elaine Kamarck, a senior Gore adviser.
The Gore campaign takes aim at the Bradley plan on several fronts: that it drains too much of the projected budget surplus, and thus shortchanges Medicare, which will need a major infusion in the coming years; that the overall cost estimate is off; that the $1,800 premium estimate is unrealistic, thus discouraging low-income people from participating and making it unlikely that the plan would meet its 95 percent coverage goal; and that dismantling Medicaid is dangerous and disruptive for millions of vulnerable Americans.
The Gore proposal on health care is, his advisers argue, a far more focused approach. It tries to broaden the Children's Health Insurance Program, which has had varying degrees of success in the states, by expanding eligibility to families at 250 percent of the poverty level, from 200 percent. That would cover an additional one million uninsured children, Gore advisers say. It would allow uninsured children in families above 250 percent of the poverty level to buy into the Children's Health Insurance Program or Medicaid, which would be more affordable than buying individual policies. And it would escalate the government's efforts to make sure that children who are eligible for Medicaid or CHIP are enrolled.
Mr. Gore would also allow many uninsured people ages 55 to 65, the fastest-growing group of uninsured in the country, to buy into Medicare. He would create a new 25 percent tax credit for small employers who join purchasing coalitions to buy insurance for their workers. And he would provide a 25 percent tax credit for people without access to employer-sponsored insurance who need to buy it on the individual market.
The Bradley campaign essentially dismisses Mr. Gore's proposal as far too timid, given the steady rise in the uninsured in the midst of an extraordinary economic boom. It argues that because Mr. Gore relies so heavily on CHIP, a voluntary program that has had serious problems reaching the eligible uninsured, it is unlikely to end up covering all children.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore plans to build on existing health coverage. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MEDICARE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (76%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (76%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); INSURANCE LAW (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); INSURANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL; TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



193 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Dispute Over Plan To Use Jobless Aid For Parental Leave

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7

 BODY:
A bitter struggle has erupted over a plan by President Clinton to allow states to pay unemployment benefits to workers who take time off to care for newborn infants.
White House officials said the change in policy, subsidizing unpaid leave for parents of newborns, could help millions of people struggling to balance the demands of work and family. 
 But employers and many state officials said Mr. Clinton was exceeding his legal authority, circumventing Congress and reversing six decades of government policy, which has held that people can get jobless benefits only if they are actively seeking work.
Just two years ago, the Labor Department told states they could not use the federal unemployment insurance trust fund to pay for maternity and paternity leave. Now, the administration is preparing new regulations that would allow the states to do so if they chose.
Employers said the president's policy would take money meant for jobless workers and give it to people who had jobs but chose to leave them temporarily.
Government data suggests that more than 650,000 people a year take parental leave under a 1993 law, the Family and Medical Leave Act. But the potential demand is much greater. The Labor Department says that 1.9 million working women have children under the age of 1.
Patrick J. Cleary, vice president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said of the president's plan: "This is the nuttiest idea we've seen in a long time. The administration is looking for a pile of cash to fulfill a political promise, and they found it in the unemployment trust fund. But that's an insurance fund, not a slush fund. It's for unemployed people. Workers on family leave are employed, not unemployed. We'll see bad times again some day, and when we go back to the trust fund, it'll be bust."
Legislators in several states, including Vermont and Massachusetts, have introduced bills to provide unemployment insurance to workers taking family leave. But officials who run the state programs are generally cool to the idea, fearing that it would change the focus of unemployment insurance and harm the trust fund.
James E. Finch, the unemployment insurance director in Utah, said: "President Clinton's plan represents a very substantial change in the bedrock core principles of the unemployment insurance program as it has been operated for 60 years. The foundation of the program is that benefits are paid to people who are unemployed through no fault of their own and who are actively seeking full-time work."
Under the 1993 law, people who work for a company with 50 or more employees are generally entitled to 12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for newborn children or sick relatives or to tend to medical problems of their own. Workers who take leave are legally entitled to return to their jobs or to equivalent positions with equivalent pay.
Jobless benefits vary from state to state, but average $200 a week. Under the current system, state officials said, the cost of any additional benefit payments would be passed on to employers because they pay the taxes that finance the unemployment insurance program.
State officials estimate that paid leave for new parents could increase their unemployment insurance costs by 15 percent to 20 percent, depending on how many people seek benefits.
Advocates of paid family leave said the cost would be much lower. Moreover, they said, paid leave would benefit the economy by reducing absenteeism and the need for new parents to go on welfare.
Senior Republicans in Congress said the president should not make such a momentous change in policy by unilateral action. And they have sent letters to the White House urging him to reconsider.
In one such letter, Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, and Representative Nancy L. Johnson of Connecticut told the president, "Your decision allowing states to use unemployment compensation to provide paid family leave pits out-of-work Americans against their neighbors who have jobs."
Mr. Clinton signaled his intention to rewrite federal policy in May, in a commencement address at Grambling State University in Louisiana, but he gave no details. Now the administration is preparing to announce the details, many of which have become known to experts in the field as the Labor Department writes new rules for the unemployment insurance program.
In announcing the rules, White House officials said, Mr. Clinton will present himself as the champion of a popular political cause, helping hard-pressed families while Congress sits on the sidelines.
Mr. Clinton is relying on an expansive view of executive authority. An analysis by the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service raises questions about that authority. Under federal law, it says, money withdrawn from the trust fund must be used "solely in the payment of unemployment compensation." Conceivably, it says, states could define "unemployment compensation" to include family leave, but that would conflict with the "legislative history and historical interpretation" of the program.
Business groups said they would challenge the new policy in court if the president formally adopted it.
The federal unemployment insurance program was created in 1935 as part of the Social Security Act. Under longstanding interpretations of the law, people are eligible for jobless benefits only if they are involuntarily unemployed, able to work and available for work.
The Labor Department's Web site describes who is eligible: "You must be available for work. This means that you are ready to start a job immediately. It also means you have transportation and do not have to remain at home to care for children."
Supporters of paid family leave like Maurice Emsellem, a lawyer at the National Employment Law Project, said states could make exceptions to this requirement. Within the framework of federal law, those supporters said, states have wide latitude in setting eligibility standards, benefit levels and tax rates. Moreover, they said, since the New Deal, states have been allowed and even encouraged to experiment with unemployment compensation.
Senator Christopher J. Dodd, an author of the 1993 family leave law, said it had been a boon to millions of new parents, allowing them to bond with their children before returning to work. But Mr. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, said that many people who needed family leave did not take it because they could not afford to go without a paycheck.
Low-wage workers who take unpaid leave often "wind up on public assistance," he said.
Labor unions and women's groups, led by the National Partnership for Women and Families, are lobbying state legislators to provide some type of income, subsidies or tax breaks for workers who take family leave. The new federal policy clears the way for such state action.
Richard A. Hobbie of the Interstate Conference of Employment Security Agencies, a national organization of state labor officials, said: "In general, our members have been opposed to the president's proposal, not because they oppose the concept of paid family leave, but because they believe it's inappropriate to use the unemployment insurance system for that purpose. State officials would argue that workers on family leave ought to be able to get benefits under some other government program or from employers."
Thomas W. Douse, the unemployment insurance director for Vermont, said that paying jobless benefits to new parents "would lead to an automatic increase in employer taxes" because benefit payments in the state would probably increase by 20 percent, or $9 million a year.
"To be sure," Mr. Douse said, "we have a strong trust fund right now, but the whole purpose of the trust fund is that you raise money in good times so it will be available in bad economic times."
Employers said the president's proposal could deplete the trust fund. But Mr. Emsellem, from the National Employment Law Project, said that with the jobless rate at a 29-year low, many states had healthy surpluses in their trust fund accounts and could afford to expand unemployment insurance.
"Businesses criticize the president's proposal as a raid on the trust fund, even as they lobby successfully for cuts in state unemployment insurance taxes," Mr. Emsellem said. "That's hypocritical."
Thomas S. Whitaker, deputy chairman of the North Carolina Employment Security Commission, said he liked Mr. Clinton's initiative because it allowed states to decide for themselves whether to pay unemployment compensation to workers taking parental leave.
"If states don't want to do it, they don't have to," Mr. Whitaker said. "I hope the Labor Department takes that approach on other issues." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VERMONT, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WOMEN; STATES (US); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; FAMILY LEAVES FAMILY LEAVE (94%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (91%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (90%); PARENTING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SICK LEAVE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (88%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); PATERNITY LEAVE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); MATERNITY LEAVE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); WOMEN (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); MEN (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



194 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
How Vouchers Can Shift The Balance

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
ADVOCATES of school vouchers believe that public schools will improve if they're forced to compete for students, but what if that's wishful thinking? What if a voucher system merely allows the better students to escape, leaving the rest trapped in the same bad schools?
Thomas Nechyba has analyzed those questions by building computer models of school districts in New York and its suburbs. Dr. Nechyba, a professor of economics at Duke University, has used worst-case assumptions about vouchers to study their potential effect on schools and the balance between city and suburbs. 
 The research, published in The American Economic Review and The Journal of Public Economic Theory, imagines vouchers ranging from $1,000 to $5,000, aimed at students trapped in the worst schools. Once a school district in, say, the Bronx was declared an educational disaster area, anyone living there would get a voucher that could be applied toward tuition at a private school.
If, as feared by critics, private schools accepted only the best students with vouchers, then at first only some families in the Bronx would benefit. But gradually the neighborhood itself would change as more middle-class parents became willing to live there. A private school in the Bronx might start looking better than a public school in Yonkers or another suburb.
"I'm not assuming that lots of people from Westchester are suddenly going to move to the Bronx just to get a voucher," Dr. Nechyba said in an interview. "The effect would be more subtle. A person living in the Bronx who gets a raise at work, for instance, wouldn't be as quick to move to a suburb for its schools. The voucher would give the middle class an incentive to stay inside the city limit."
As more middle-class parents remained in urban school districts to take advantage of vouchers, property values would rise in the city and fall in the suburbs. Urban neighborhoods and suburbs wouldn't be segregated so sharply by class and race.
"Vouchers would help reverse the forces that stratified classes in the city and suburbs," Dr. Nechyba said. "When your children's school is determined strictly by where you live, people in good school districts try to protect their schools and their tax base by zoning out low-income people. Even when the poor aren't zoned out, they're priced out, because the price of a house includes a high premium for the schools."
Dr. Nechyba concludes that suburban public schools would be the chief victims of urban vouchers, because they would end up with a smaller share of the bright students and affluent parents. The chief beneficiaries would be the urban students using the vouchers.
AMONG students overall," Dr. Nechyba said, "the gains from the winners roughly offset the losses. So the effect of vouchers would be neutral even when you start out with worst-case assumptions."
It would probably be more realistic, he said, to assume that vouchers would stimulate at least some improvements in public schools. To keep students from fleeing to private schools, unionized teachers might adopt more flexible work rules, or administrators might create more small schools tailored to students' needs and parents' demands.
"If we factor in even a modest improvement in public schools," Dr. Nechyba said, "we see dramatic increases in the overall quality of education as well as a more even distribution of opportunities. Low-income kids in the city would have access to private schools and to better public schools in their neighborhood. They would also have easier access to better public schools elsewhere, because suburban property values wouldn't be as artificially inflated."
Dr. Nechyba sees one immediate application for the research: as a legal tool for redressing educational inequities. Advocates for New York City students are in court trying to force New York State to redress the disparities in what different school districts spend per pupil.
If the advocates prevail, Dr. Nechyba suggests that the money go directly to parents instead of to school districts. He and Michael Heise, a law professor at Case Western Reserve University, argue in a paper for the Manhattan Institute's Center for Civic Innovation that the money be used for vouchers.
"With targeted vouchers," Dr. Nechyba said, "you can not only improve the opportunities for disadvantaged students, you can also improve disadvantaged neighborhoods. You'll end up with a more integrated society." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; SECTARIAN SCHOOLS SCHOOL VOUCHERS (93%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ZONING (89%); CHILDREN (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); FAMILY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); HOME PRICES (67%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN THOMAS NECHYBA (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



195 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Expansion of Arts Center Touches a Nerve in Princeton

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J., Nov. 6

 BODY:
When the colleagues of the architect Michael Graves strolled out of their first planning board meeting here last December, they thought they had reason to be pleased.
They were sure the project they were proposing -- a large addition to an arts center that would be Mr. Graves's first public commission in his hometown -- had been warmly received, with only a few caveats. 
 Not only was Mr. Graves donating his time and that of his employees, but the project -- almost doubling the size of the Arts Council of Princeton -- was no ordinary addition. The design was pure Graves: an industrial-looking round tower and a distinctive 12-sided entrance and reception hall, with wings for a 200-seat theater and more classroom space. If built, the addition would transform the original nondescript brick building.
"I remember saying that it really couldn't have gone much better," said Thomas P. Rowe, one of the architects.
Over the spring and summer, the architects worked away on the design, polishing and making small changes -- moving the building back two feet, knocking a few feet off the height of the tower and erasing a sawtooth roof detail -- while the Arts Council went ahead with its fund-raising, getting $3.6 million of the $4 million they needed for the project.
But then everything came to a halt.
In late September, the planning board called the architects back for another session, labeled a concept review. "They said we really didn't change it that much," Mr. Rowe said, "and they're right."
In what is generally described as a heated confrontation, the board, with a few new members, ripped the proposal apart. They also listened to angry complaints about the project's size and about the loss of parking spaces -- a precious commodity here -- from residents who live near the center, most of whom are black.
Within a month, the escalating debate over the proposal -- and over the politics behind the board's apparent flip-flop -- has divided the participants and endangered the Arts Council's commitment to downtown Princeton, a place that prides itself on both its economic and racial diversity.
Angry letters have been sent back and forth, between the Arts Council and public officials, including the Mayor of the Borough of Princeton, Marvin Reed, who was easily re-elected this month for his third term. Mr. Rowe, from Mr. Graves's office, said he had no plans to revise the building again, before the design is formally submitted for a vote, and Mr. Graves concurred.
On Friday, the well-known architect said he thought the design was "wonderful," and said his office was not "going to roll over and play dead." Several board members of the Arts Council have threatened to build a new building outside the borough if the planning board forces them to make the addition smaller.
And behind it all, seldom spoken, but recognized and feared by all sides, is the specter of racism.
"Many of the neighbors feel that the Arts Council is exclusionary, anyway," said Jim Floyd Sr., 77, a former mayor of the adjacent Township of Princeton. (The township, population 13,500, surrounds the borough, population 12,500; they are generally separate entities, but they have the same planning board.) Mr. Floyd's son and his sister-in-law live in clapboard houses two blocks away from the Arts Council's building, built by the Works Progress Administration in 1938 for an African-American Y.M.C.A., and he has been involved in the issue ever since the first planning board hearing.
"Look at their programs," the elder Mr. Floyd said: "There's a course on parenting at 10:30 in the morning, and you have to pay for it! Who's going to be able to go to it? The people in this neighborhood are off working. And those courses are expensive."
In addition, he said, many of the neighbors feel angry that they were not consulted about Mr. Graves's addition. Some testified that it would be incompatible with the scale of the four-corner intersection, which has a library, a graveyard and a bakery.
To Peter Bienstock, a board member of the Arts Council and its chosen spokesman, the racial overtone of the debate is a mischaracterization of the nature of the opposition. The dispute, he added, has crippled the Council's fund-raising. As a land developer for more than 25 years, he added, he has dealt with many development projects. "Close neighbors almost invariably object," he said.
(Mr. Bienstock has said publicly that if the addition were proposed for a site across the street from his own house, he, too, would be opposed.)
Today, he said that because of meetings over the last two weeks with leaders and congregants from several of the area's black churches -- meetings in which balloons were flown to show the height of the proposed addition -- the strength of the protest against the design now seemed to be dying away.
Mr. Bienstock dismissed the accusation from neighborhood opponents that the Arts Council is elitist and caters mainly to whites who drive in for the council's courses and presentations. Besides parenting classes, they include pottery workshops and music concerts. He said that many blacks, from nearby and farther away, support the addition. (And he said course scholarships were offered to local residents.)
The Arts Council bought the former Y.M.C.A. from the borough four years ago for $125,000. And at that time, there was controversy, and the same charges that the Council catered more to whites in the outskirts than to blacks next door. But since then, Mr. Bienstock said, the Council has recruited minorities for its advisory board -- there are now three blacks on the 28-member board -- and has listened to their suggestions about new programs to appeal to local residents.
One of the new board members back then was Jim Floyd Jr., who says he and two other minority board members "bailed out" after a couple of months, when, he says, the rest of the board "didn't seem interested in questions we raised about the way they did business."
But they were replaced by other minority members, including the Rev. John E. White, pastor of the Witherspoon Presbyterian Church, a few blocks away from the Arts Council building.
Mr. White questioned Mr. Bienstock's optimistic assessment that the Arts Council was past its greatest hurdles in his neighborhood.
"There are still some very mixed feelings in the community," he said. Some think the Arts Council's programming is positive, he said, and some feel it is elitist. Some are not in favor because of the history, he said, when the building housed a black Y.M.C.A., "and they have their memories; there's nowhere near as many African-Americans involved there now." There are concerns about the size of the addition: "Some people are worried about the overflow and worry that they and their friends won't have places to park."
For his part, Mayor Reed, who sits on the planning board, labeled the debate "your typical small-town development conflict," and produced an Oct. 5 letter from the planning board to the Arts Council asking for a public meeting to try to resolve the issue. A date has not yet been set.
Mr. White, who is African-American, was asked what he thought of the proposal. "I do share some of these concerns about parking -- and it is a big building," he said. But he agreed that making the addition smaller would not serve the Arts Council's needs for a bigger theater and more classrooms.
"If it has to be smaller, they would leave," he said, "and everyone's aware of that." He paused. "The Arts Council has been a good neighbor to us. But it's understandable that people don't want a behemoth next to them -- even Mr. Bienstock said he wouldn't want it across the street from his own house."
"And there's the history, too," he said, recalling when the building was a black Y.M.C.A. "It's hard to defeat history."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, Peter Bienstock, a member of the Arts Council of Princeton, said, "Close neighbors almost invariably object" to a project. Right, Jim Floyd Sr., former Mayor of Princeton Township, said, "Many of the neighbors feel that the Arts Council is exclusionary, anyway." He is walking with Jim Jr. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times); A computer image of the proposed design for an addition to the Arts Council of Princeton. The building has come under fire from neighbors. (Arts Council of Princeton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ARTS COUNCIL OF PRINCETON (PRINCETON, NJ) ARTS COUNCIL (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARTS COUNCIL OF PRINCETON (PRINCETON, NJ) ARTS COUNCIL (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PRINCETON (NJ); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; ARCHITECTURE ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); MAYORS (70%); RELOCATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE; GRAVES, MICHAEL MICHAEL GRAVES (90%); THOMAS P ROWE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



196 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
U.S. Offers Its Diplomats In Russia a Trip Home
The State Department will offer paid trips home for hundreds of government employees and family members from Russia and three other former Soviet republics before Jan. 1 because of concerns over Year 2000 computer problems, even though experts at the American Embassy in Moscow conclude there is virtually no risk to diplomats. A1
 
Favorite Wins Mexican Primary
Francisco Labastida Ochoa, left, the candidate favored by Mexico's governing party, won a decisive victory in the first presidential primary the party ever held. President Ernesto Zedillo said his party's first competitive primary had been generally orderly and "genuinely democratic." Mr. Labastida's closest rival was the former Tabasco state governor, Roberto Madrazo Pintado. A1 

Senate Inquiry Into Citibank
The Senate will hold hearings this week on how Citibank has handled the vast private accounts of several prominent foreign political leaders or their families from countries like Mexico, Nigeria and Pakistan. In the case of one leader, President Omar Bongo of Gabon, Democratic Senate investigators found that Citibank included inaccurate or unverified sources to explain the $50 million he had deposited in secret accounts. A6
 
Chechnya Leader Makes Appeal
Russian guns and warplanes hit towns and villages near the capital, Grozny, as Chechnya's leader appealed to President Clinton to help end what he called Russia's criminal onslaught against his region. A10
 
Pope Defends Evangelism
On a visit to India, Pope John Paul II tried to persuade leaders of other religions that interfaith understanding should lead them to recognize the Roman Catholic Church's right to evangelize. A3
 
Bombs Wound 14 in Israel
Three makeshift pipe bombs exploded in the Israeli coastal town of Netanya, wounding 14 people, on the day before the planned start of Israeli-Palestinian negotiations on a permanent peace. There was no immediate claim of responsibility. The office of Prime Minister Ehud Barak said talks with the Palestinians would proceed as planned today in the West Bank town of Ramallah. A6
 
Holding On to Communism
A masked Communist joined thousands of Russians yesterday in celebrating the 82nd anniversary of the October 1917 Bolshevik revolution. Demonstrators marched with red flags and banners and listened to speeches. Nov. 7 in the Gregorian calendar corresponds to Oct. 25 in Russia's previous Orthodox calendar. (Agence France-Presse)
 
NATIONAL A12-23
 
Plan to Use Jobless Aid For Parental Leave Fought
A bitter struggle has erupted over a plan by President Clinton to allow states to pay unemployment benefits to workers who take time off to care for newborns. The policy could help millions of people struggling to balance the demands of work and family, White House officials said. But employers and many state officials said Mr. Clinton was exceeding his legal authority. A1
 
Another Day for Tears
"Allahu akbar," mourners for the victims of the EgyptAir Flight 990 disaster wailed in Arabic. "God is great." More than 250 grieving relatives and friends attended a memorial service for the passengers and crew members of the flight, which crashed a week earlier in waters south of Nantucket. A12
 
A more versatile underwater robot was installed on a Navy support ship at Newport Naval Station, R.I., and will try to retrieve the so-called black boxes of Flight 990. A12
 
M.I.T. to Help British
The British government will announce a $108 million investment in a joint venture that will link research and educational programs at the University of Cambridge in England with those at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The joint enterprise will seek to develop technologies, products and companies to improve the productivity and competitiveness of British manufacturing industries. A14
 
State Fights for Newspaper
The State of Hawaii is fighting to keep Honolulu from becoming a one-newspaper town. The state attorney general has sued to stop a deal that would result in the shutdown of The Honolulu Star-Bulletin. Meanwhile, the Justice Department has subpoenaed records and began an investigation into whether the planned closing broke antitrust laws. A19
 
Differing Health Care Tacks
Health policy experts say Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley have very different visions about how to deal with the nation's 44.3 million uninsured. Mr. Bradley is proposing a big program, without the mandates and cost controls that were part of a 1994 proposal by President Clinton. Mr. Gore wants to build incrementally on existing programs. A18
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
A New Way of Life In New York Lockup
Rikers Island, where violence was routine five years ago, has become a model for other states to study. The sense of safety has been achieved through an ambitious, unapologetic program employing everything from high-tech weaponry to common sense. But some tactics, particularly the use of pepper gas and stun devices, alarm prisoners and their legal advocates. A1
 
Bridge Catches Fire
A fire raged for more than two hours last night beneath the Third Avenue Bridge, which carries traffic from the Bronx to Manhattan, closing the bridge and threatening to throw serious snags into this morning's commute. B1
 
Rape Suspect Caught
A man suspected of being a serial rapist broke into a 12-year-old girl's bedroom in Queens while she was sleeping but was stopped when the girl's uncle stabbed him, the police said. B3
 
ARTS E1-8
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
 
Woods Ends Season a Winner
Tiger Woods became the first player since Ben Hogan in 1953 to win four straight tournaments by capturing the American Express Championship in Sotogrande, Spain. D1
 
Jets Rally in 4th Quarter
The New York Jets overcame their own mistakes to defeat the Arizona Cardinals, 12-7. D1
 
Nets Now 1-3 for Season
The Nets beat the Washington Wizards, 112-87. D8
 
MARATHON F1-18
 
26.2 Miles, a Stride at a Time
Joseph Chebet of Kenya won the New York City Marathon in 2:09:14, and Adriana Fernandez of Mexico was the women's winner, finishing in 2:25:06. Chebet became the first man since Alberto Salazar in 1982 to win the Boston and New York City Marathons in the same year. F1
 
OBITUARIES B10-11
 
Primo Nebiolo
The man who brought track and field out of the amateur ranks as president of its world governing body for almost two decades was 76. B11
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-26
 
Mixed Reaction on Microsoft
Any satisfaction in Silicon Valley with a judge's findings in the Microsoft antitrust case is offset by concern that the court document is a step toward greater government intervention in the high-technology economy. The judge's findings are not a final ruling in the case, but they will almost certainly serve as the framework for its outcome. A1
 
Building Bigger Businesses
One legacy of the Clinton administration may be a return to economic empires, a result of merger approvals and deregulation. Some of the biggest changes have been or are expected to be in telecommunications, oil and, with the signing of a bill tomorrow, financial services. A22
 
The Thinking Behind the Deal
The chief executive of Warner-Lambert said his company was proceeding with its $72 billion proposed merger with American Home Products and spurning an $80 billion hostile bid from Pfizer because Warner-Lambert and American Home were better matched. C1
 
Surfing, Republican Style
The Republican National Committee plans to offer a "family friendly" Internet service that will deliver the party's messages directly to supporters. C1
 
Stocks Lower in Tokyo
Stocks were trading lower in Tokyo today. At midday, the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues was down 136.80 points, or 0.75 percent, at 18,218.10. (Bloomberg News)
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: Clean air counterattack; the truth according to Otis Chandler; Brent Staples on gays and the military.
 
Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E6
 
Public Lives A12
 
Crossword E8
 
TV Listings E7
 
Metro Diary B2
 
Weather D10
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); MEXICO (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); NIGERIA (79%); GABON (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (51%); DEMOCRATIC SENATE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); MEXICO (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); NIGERIA (79%); GABON (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (89%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); PARENTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); FAMILY LEAVE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); BOMBINGS (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); GOVERNORS (58%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (57%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); EHUD BARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



197 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 17; Column 4; The Marathon

LENGTH: 5331 words

HEADLINE: 1999 NEW YORK CITY MARATHON: PART 33 OF 34;
They Came, They Ran, They Conquered

 BODY:

5:51:00
 
29764 Tomlinson, D, 39M . . . 5:51:00
29765 Arroyave, E, 45M . . . 5:51:01
29766 Hogan, G, 66M . . . 5:51:02
29767 Gonzalez, J, 31M . . . 5:51:05
29768 Chiocchi, L, 23F . . . 5:51:06
29769 Hull, M, 41M . . . 5:51:07
29770 Fernandez-Davil, V, 33M . . . 5:51:09
29771 Holm, J, 58M . . . 5:51:10
29772 Fey, K, 30F . . . 5:51:15
29773 Crann, D, 52M . . . 5:51:15
29774 Ramirez, R, 46M . . . 5:51:16
29775 Carpinello, M, 57M . . . 5:51:17
29776 Cliff, P, 60M . . . 5:51:17
29777 Cliff, D, 60F . . . 5:51:17
29778 Lawrence, R, 52M . . . 5:51:20
29779 Heyermann, N, 21F . . . 5:51:21
29780 Frehner, R, 48M . . . 5:51:25
29781 McCrory, L, 23F . . . 5:51:26
29782 Nardone, G, 26M . . . 5:51:26
29783 Stanbury, M, 47F . . . 5:51:27
29784 Joice, S, 39F . . . 5:51:27
29785 Khosla, S, 34M . . . 5:51:28
29786 Kane, E, 48M . . . 5:51:29
29787 Fries, R, 50M . . . 5:51:29
29788 Engber, S, 30F . . . 5:51:33
29789 Lievre, C, 70M . . . 5:51:34
29790 Sherman, J, 25F . . . 5:51:35
29791 Movio, P, 55M . . . 5:51:35
29792 Meislik, S, 25F . . . 5:51:35
29793 Piffaretti, D, 59M . . . 5:51:38
29794 Rute, M, 32F . . . 5:51:40
29795 Keane, E, 27F . . . 5:51:41
29796 Bonarelli, L, 21M . . . 5:51:41
29797 Aronson, R, 44F . . . 5:51:42
29798 Moberg, S, 42F . . . 5:51:42
29799 Heyman, D, 42M . . . 5:51:43
29800 Stroppa, R, 50M . . . 5:51:44
29801 Kampel, A, 29F . . . 5:51:44
29802 Smitley, H, 53F . . . 5:51:45
29803 Samya, N, 42F . . . 5:51:45
29804 Guild, T, 35F . . . 5:51:45
29805 Sobash, E, 34M . . . 5:51:48
29806 Looijenga, P, 37M . . . 5:51:51
29807 De Vogel, A, 29M . . . 5:51:52
29808 Yagi, S, 26F . . . 5:51:52
29809 Colon, K, 38M . . . 5:51:52
29810 Willmott, J, 36M . . . 5:51:52
29811 Mura, D, 23M . . . 5:51:56
29812 Hughes, M, 40M . . . 5:51:56
29813 Hirvonen, O, 49M . . . 5:51:56
29814 Maguire, M, 58F . . . 5:51:57
29815 Chaves, J, 30M . . . 5:51:59
29816 Leitner, P, 70M . . . 5:52:00
29817 Noordijk, L, 37M . . . 5:52:01
29818 Bouillard, A, 19M . . . 5:52:03
29819 Ferguson, M, 29M . . . 5:52:04
29820 Riva, R, 64M . . . 5:52:06
29821 Cager, C, 56M . . . 5:52:07
29822 Pugh, M, 63M . . . 5:52:11
29823 Sequeira, C, 57M . . . 5:52:12
29824 Oger, C, 40F . . . 5:52:14
29825 Ottavy, C, 38F . . . 5:52:16
29826 Oreilly, G, 50F . . . 5:52:16
29827 Rigoni, A, 34F . . . 5:52:16
29828 Sella, M, 38M . . . 5:52:17
29829 Szyfer, L, 50M . . . 5:52:20
29830 Galan, J, 43M . . . 5:52:20
29831 Hewett, M, 36M . . . 5:52:20
29832 Echegaray, L, 27M . . . 5:52:23
29833 Zaini, A, 40M . . . 5:52:24
29834 Round-Ball, C, 36F . . . 5:52:24
29835 Pavlou, C, 26F . . . 5:52:25
29836 Palmieri, A, 54F . . . 5:52:26
29837 Herominski, G, 51M . . . 5:52:28
29838 Rindi, M, 44F . . . 5:52:29
29839 Dodson, D, 41M . . . 5:52:35
29840 Tannehill, T, 44F . . . 5:52:35
29841 Mitchum, N, 40F . . . 5:52:36
29842 Bullough, J, 67F . . . 5:52:38
29843 Organek, H, 50M . . . 5:52:38
29844 Jens, W, 45M . . . 5:52:40
29845 De La Torre, S, 66M . . . 5:52:41
29846 Irie, J, 22M . . . 5:52:44
29847 Cardy, H, 34F . . . 5:52:44
29848 Mellor, G, 46M . . . 5:52:45
29849 Sakon, Y, 30M . . . 5:52:54
29850 Rodriguez, D, 40F . . . 5:52:54
29851 Cervantes, A, 53M . . . 5:52:55
29852 Saunders, R, 56M . . . 5:52:56
29853 Willemsen, H, 42M . . . 5:52:57
29854 Sellier, C, 34F . . . 5:52:58
29855 Zibulsky, S, 59M . . . 5:52:59
29856 Lazarowitz, M, 31F . . . 5:52:59
29857 Livingston, M, 43M . . . 5:53:00
29858 Abrams, H, 46F . . . 5:53:01
29859 Walsh, M, 37F . . . 5:53:02
29860 Bersselaar, J, 47M . . . 5:53:04
29861 Kennedy, C, 48F . . . 5:53:04
29862 Shapley, A, 53F . . . 5:53:04
29863 Spencer, A, 31M . . . 5:53:05
29864 Friedman, S, 33M . . . 5:53:06
29865 Schmatz, J, 49M . . . 5:53:07
29866 Fitzgerald, J, 28F . . . 5:53:08
29867 Steckelberg, A, 27F . . . 5:53:08
29868 Gordon, J, 39M . . . 5:53:09
29869 Santiago, A, 49M . . . 5:53:09
29870 Le Toffe, T, 39M . . . 5:53:10
29871 Poyau, C, 40M . . . 5:53:10
29872 Sasaki, J, 71M . . . 5:53:16
29873 Sasaki, Y, 66F . . . 5:53:16
29874 Sgalaberna, A, 58M . . . 5:53:20
29875 Westlake, D, 33F . . . 5:53:21
29876 Cuevas Gatica, A, 37M . . . 5:53:23
29877 Kiefer, E, 33F . . . 5:53:25
29878 Yellen, S, 40M . . . 5:53:26
29879 Alber, E, 58M . . . 5:53:28
29880 Goldin, P, 34F . . . 5:53:29
29881 Goldin, D, 34M . . . 5:53:29
29882 Norman, M, 39F . . . 5:53:32
29883 Boulet, M, 48F . . . 5:53:32
29884 Vandillen, T, 38F . . . 5:53:37
29885 Tewes, J, 35M . . . 5:53:37
29886 Aston, G, 50F . . . 5:53:38
29887 Boddice, J, 50F . . . 5:53:38
29888 Cates, J, 53F . . . 5:53:39
29889 Alvarez, T, 50M . . . 5:53:39
29890 Fanelli, T, 68F . . . 5:53:39
29891 Deogun, K, 36M . . . 5:53:40
29892 Sim, I, 66M . . . 5:53:41
29893 Blacksheare, T, 42F . . . 5:53:42
29894 Hirashima, M, 27F . . . 5:53:44
29895 Lorenzin, G, 32M . . . 5:53:47
29896 Richardson-Harris, L, 30F . . . 5:53:47
29897 Hill, P, 60M . . . 5:53:48
29898 Shehan, L, 76F . . . 5:53:49
29899 Engwall, L, 34F . . . 5:53:49
29900 Hawker, A, 29M . . . 5:53:51
29901 Stevens, C, 22M . . . 5:53:52
29902 Hughes, T, 62M . . . 5:53:53
29903 Oshima, A, 58F . . . 5:53:54
29904 Oshima, A, 57M . . . 5:53:54
29905 Hageman, A, 38F . . . 5:53:56
29906 Stott, M, 57F . . . 5:53:57
29907 Derooij, T, 39M . . . 5:53:58
29908 Wittert, W, 43M . . . 5:53:58
29909 Franzero, D, 43M . . . 5:54:00
29910 Maramenides, G, 28F . . . 5:54:00
29911 Raccagni, M, 30M . . . 5:54:01
29912 O'Connor, Y, 33F . . . 5:54:01
29913 Abrahamsen, J, 26F . . . 5:54:01
29914 Rovigi, S, 23F . . . 5:54:02
29915 Sirello, M, 25F . . . 5:54:02
29916 Novak, E, 41M . . . 5:54:02
29917 Bradford, R, 43F . . . 5:54:08
29918 Phillips, T, 43M . . . 5:54:08
29919 Bignozzi, S, 23F . . . 5:54:09
29920 Funatsu, K, 50F . . . 5:54:11
29921 Bjerke, H, 49M . . . 5:54:11
29922 Jee, S, 29F . . . 5:54:15
29923 Inoue, F, 63M . . . 5:54:18
29924 McGowan, S, 36F . . . 5:54:19
29925 Pollock, W, 57M . . . 5:54:20
29926 O'Sullivan, K, 40M . . . 5:54:24
29927 Castillo, M, 41F . . . 5:54:27
29928 Gonzalez Serna, E, 41M . . . 5:54:27
29929 Scalzo, N, 50M . . . 5:54:28
29930 Gray, N, 29F . . . 5:54:31
29931 Ribeiro, M, 30F . . . 5:54:32
29932 Becker, N, 48M . . . 5:54:34
29933 Nearenberg, M, 41M . . . 5:54:34
29934 Litts, T, 39M . . . 5:54:35
29935 Pantoja, N, 55M . . . 5:54:36
29936 Baum, P, 45F . . . 5:54:37
29937 Baum, N, 48F . . . 5:54:37
29938 Piantanida, V, 61M . . . 5:54:39
29939 Colvee, P, 56M . . . 5:54:41
29940 Hollingsworth, T, 46M . . . 5:54:41
29941 Goldstein, C, 24F . . . 5:54:43
29942 Hart, D, 42M . . . 5:54:43
29943 Costello, G, 35F . . . 5:54:44
29944 Penton, H, 31M . . . 5:54:45
29945 Carricarte, J, 30F . . . 5:54:45
29946 Matsumora, K, 60M . . . 5:54:45
29947 Bondanza, C, 28F . . . 5:54:46
29948 Wrede, F, 38M . . . 5:54:48
29949 Svedenlof, O, 38M . . . 5:54:48
29950 To, L, 35F . . . 5:54:51
29951 Wozneak, J, 40M . . . 5:54:51
29952 Steenman-Bash, C, 49F . . . 5:54:55
29953 Sonshine, S, 51M . . . 5:54:55
29954 Capurso, J, 42M . . . 5:54:56

5:55:00

29955 Copeland, B, 57F . . . 5:55:00
29956 Dai, M, 26F . . . 5:55:01
29957 Grabow, W, 58M . . . 5:55:01
29958 Rodriguez, A, 37F . . . 5:55:02
29959 Bartalini, T, 43M . . . 5:55:03
29960 Lann, R, 65M . . . 5:55:03
29961 Eumann, H, 39M . . . 5:55:05
29962 Hunter, K, 31F . . . 5:55:06
29963 Barth, M, 29F . . . 5:55:09
29964 Urenovich, M, 18M . . . 5:55:10
29965 Eddy, M, 51F . . . 5:55:11
29966 Brennan, C, 35F . . . 5:55:11
29967 Thaler, X, 40M . . . 5:55:11
29968 Frenche, L, 51M . . . 5:55:12
29969 Nemec, E, 58M . . . 5:55:13
29970 Waterbury, C, 55M . . . 5:55:13
29971 Acker, L, 49M . . . 5:55:14
29972 Abdur-Rahman M.D., S, 44M . . . 5:55:14
29973 Mayer, C, 40M . . . 5:55:15
29974 Willey, C, 57F . . . 5:55:16
29975 Sandri, G, 60M . . . 5:55:18
29976 Sofo, V, 46F . . . 5:55:19
29977 Sofo, F, 56M . . . 5:55:19
29978 McAteer, V, 24M . . . 5:55:21
29979 Soufleris, J, 32M . . . 5:55:25
29980 Orsenigo, A, 29F . . . 5:55:26
29981 Brandon, P, 56M . . . 5:55:30
29982 Brandon, J, 25F . . . 5:55:31
29983 Van Den Berg, J, 70M . . . 5:55:31
29984 Isea, A, 43F . . . 5:55:33
29985 Gourdon, A, 52F . . . 5:55:39
29986 Schutz, F, 60M . . . 5:55:40
29987 Ruettermann, A, 30M . . . 5:55:41
29988 Labbe, M, 29F . . . 5:55:42
29989 Esdel, E, 29F . . . 5:55:43
29990 Depalma, T, 45M . . . 5:55:43
29991 Askienazy, A, 56F . . . 5:55:44
29992 Bolton, C, 30F . . . 5:55:44
29993 Kilty, J, 34F . . . 5:55:45
29994 Leigh, T, 38M . . . 5:55:45
29995 Merlo, A, 34M . . . 5:55:45
29996 Luppi, D, 37F . . . 5:55:45
29997 Kilty, T, 33M . . . 5:55:46
29998 Archer, P, 28M . . . 5:55:48
29999 Boss, B, 39M . . . 5:55:48
30000 John, J, 50F . . . 5:55:49
30001 Paukert, C, 30F . . . 5:55:49
30002 Lynn, J, 31F . . . 5:55:49
30003 Weiner, J, 47M . . . 5:55:50
30004 Weiner, B, 43M . . . 5:55:50
30005 Lowitt, S, 65M . . . 5:55:51
30006 Holmes, Y, 26F . . . 5:55:52
30007 Kopelman, J, 25F . . . 5:55:52
30008 Piccoli, P, 46M . . . 5:55:52
30009 Bille, M, 42F . . . 5:55:53
30010 Hilli, M, 20M . . . 5:55:53
30011 Gioia, S, 32F . . . 5:55:54
30012 D'Andrea, L, 45F . . . 5:55:55
30013 Hilli, C, 52M . . . 5:55:55
30014 Thomson, T, 26F . . . 5:55:59
30015 Alexander, D, 45F . . . 5:55:59
30016 Harding, G, 63M . . . 5:55:59
30017 Youngerman, M, 45F . . . 5:55:59
30018 Piparo, C, 63M . . . 5:55:59
30019 Nuesell, G, 30M . . . 5:56:00
30020 Lewellyn, M, 48F . . . 5:56:01
30021 Sanchez, O, 57M . . . 5:56:02
30022 Portugues, V, 31M . . . 5:56:03
30023 Delay, C, 38M . . . 5:56:04
30024 Bostic, J, 30F . . . 5:56:05
30025 O'Reilly, A, 43F . . . 5:56:07
30026 Malherbe, T, 44M . . . 5:56:08
30027 Langevin, E, 47F . . . 5:56:09
30028 Luckwich, J, 45F . . . 5:56:09
30029 Rheingold, P, 66M . . . 5:56:09
30030 Casasbellas, F, 23M . . . 5:56:09
30031 Devlin Jr, J, 35M . . . 5:56:11
30032 Norum, A, 60F . . . 5:56:13
30033 Bettinger, E, 44F . . . 5:56:13
30034 Godard, A, 63M . . . 5:56:14
30035 Latham, C, 40F . . . 5:56:17
30036 Paredes, J, 55M . . . 5:56:20
30037 Asakawa, T, 40M . . . 5:56:23
30038 Filippini, B, 29F . . . 5:56:24
30039 Lund, W, 46M . . . 5:56:28
30040 Bakkenes, J, 52M . . . 5:56:28
30041 Riggio, J, 55F . . . 5:56:29
30042 Fellinga, F, 56M . . . 5:56:30
30043 Burns, R, 57M . . . 5:56:34
30044 Manilay, J, 30F . . . 5:56:36
30045 Ogilvie, J, 39M . . . 5:56:39
30046 Hosein, E, 54M . . . 5:56:43
30047 Steffen, R, 37M . . . 5:56:44
30048 Vanbeek, E, 32F . . . 5:56:44
30049 Mollerup, A, 57F . . . 5:56:46
30050 Kaminsky, M, 21M . . . 5:56:47
30051 Tigl, A, 33M . . . 5:56:50
30052 Hendrix, T, 50M . . . 5:56:51
30053 Sakurabayashi, J, 23M . . . 5:56:52
30054 Melin-Malin, J, 52M . . . 5:56:53
30055 Taes, L, 45M . . . 5:56:53
30056 Morris, B, 55F . . . 5:56:57
30057 Kukes, J, 52M . . . 5:56:58
30058 Durante, M, 34F . . . 5:56:59
30059 Rattiner, A, 56M . . . 5:57:00
30060 Nor-Mally, J, 45F . . . 5:57:00
30061 Pinyon, D, 39M . . . 5:57:02
30062 Alm, W, 21F . . . 5:57:03
30063 Olvera Caballero, J, 39M . . . 5:57:03
30064 Englaro, E, 46F . . . 5:57:04
30065 Wagemaker, R, 56M . . . 5:57:04
30066 Ide, C, 20M . . . 5:57:07
30067 Harris, M, 32F . . . 5:57:08
30068 Stelling, M, 60F . . . 5:57:09
30069 Sapienza, D, 46M . . . 5:57:11
30070 Sapienza, F, 44F . . . 5:57:11
30071 Dolan, M, 42F . . . 5:57:13
30072 Sellers, A, 47F . . . 5:57:13
30073 Mesplede, J, 51M . . . 5:57:14
30074 Lutteroth, L, 41M . . . 5:57:16
30075 Gerrish, A, 40M . . . 5:57:17
30076 Kittner, R, 25F . . . 5:57:21
30077 Kittner, C, 56F . . . 5:57:21
30078 Berry, R, 57M . . . 5:57:23
30079 Schmid, J, 42F . . . 5:57:24
30080 Hale, J, 34F . . . 5:57:24
30081 Schiavo, D, 54M . . . 5:57:24
30082 Regan, P, 40M . . . 5:57:25
30083 Moore, W, 42F . . . 5:57:28
30084 Wood, C, 48F . . . 5:57:29
30085 Pflueger, J, 39M . . . 5:57:32
30086 Gonzalez, F, 28M . . . 5:57:32
30087 Baiardi, A, 27M . . . 5:57:33
30088 Walter, H, 39M . . . 5:57:33
30089 Wilkins, T, 56F . . . 5:57:36
30090 Tollison, B, 29M . . . 5:57:40
30091 Englaro, D, 32M . . . 5:57:41
30092 Suzuki, K, 36M . . . 5:57:43
30093 Escalera, J, 41M . . . 5:57:45
30094 Laufenberg, M, 52F . . . 5:57:48
30095 Friedlander, J, 61F . . . 5:57:49
30096 Friedlander, J, 77M . . . 5:57:49
30097 Wimsatt, A, 42F . . . 5:57:50
30098 Cassidy, P, 51F . . . 5:57:52
30099 Deckstein, P, 57M . . . 5:57:54
30100 Todd, F, 35M . . . 5:57:54
30101 Van Reemst, H, 36M . . . 5:57:54
30102 Horvath, P, 62M . . . 5:57:56
30103 Karp, L, 27F . . . 5:57:58
30104 Hanft, J, 35F . . . 5:57:58
30105 Mewes, M, 41F . . . 5:57:58
30106 Hanft, M, 40M . . . 5:57:59
30107 Bradford, P, 34M . . . 5:57:59

5:58:00

30108 Orengo, J, 52M . . . 5:58:00
30109 Hoke, S, 68F . . . 5:58:04
30110 Jensen, M, 18M . . . 5:58:04
30111 Jensen, J, 58F . . . 5:58:05
30112 Thompson, D, 41F . . . 5:58:06
30113 Mygatt, C, 30M . . . 5:58:08
30114 Dabadie, M, 59M . . . 5:58:08
30115 Dabadie, B, 59F . . . 5:58:08
30116 Schueren, H, 43M . . . 5:58:10
30117 Kerr, J, 30F . . . 5:58:10
30118 Kerr, D, 58M . . . 5:58:10
30119 Daniel, M, 40M . . . 5:58:11
30120 Hareux, M, 40F . . . 5:58:11
30121 Evanitsky, P, 46F . . . 5:58:14
30122 Polissar, N, 60M . . . 5:58:15
30123 Martin, M, 36F . . . 5:58:18
30124 Cacciatore, S, 28F . . . 5:58:23
30125 Tomasi, F, 34M . . . 5:58:23
30126 Sandullo, H, 55M . . . 5:58:23
30127 Pirhonen, P, 51F . . . 5:58:23
30128 Englert, M, 56F . . . 5:58:25
30129 Alm, O, 56M . . . 5:58:28
30130 Funk, S, 50F . . . 5:58:29
30131 Frasnedi, E, 51M . . . 5:58:29
30132 Funk, A, 23F . . . 5:58:29
30133 Stewart-Mole, E, 22M . . . 5:58:32
30134 Dietrich, B, 50F . . . 5:58:33
30135 Roberts, L, 40F . . . 5:58:33
30136 Morrison, J, 39F . . . 5:58:33
30137 Erenburg, B, 57M . . . 5:58:39
30138 Sgariglia, P, 59M . . . 5:58:44
30139 Chessa, A, 58M . . . 5:58:45
30140 Hanaway, R, 27M . . . 5:58:47
30141 Passalacqua, V, 53M . . . 5:58:50
30142 Viberti, F, 40M . . . 5:58:50
30143 Scholly, J, 34F . . . 5:59:02
30144 Scholly, A, 32F . . . 5:59:02
30145 Tanis, G, 64M . . . 5:59:02
30146 Shendalman, E, 32F . . . 5:59:04
30147 Shendalman, L, 60M . . . 5:59:04
30148 Mokubo, M, 46F . . . 5:59:05
30149 Julao, A, 28F . . . 5:59:05
30150 Reid, M, 45F . . . 5:59:09
30151 Hamid, F, 27F . . . 5:59:12
30152 Ghiandoni, B, 67M . . . 5:59:12
30153 Martinelli, L, 37M . . . 5:59:13
30154 Pasquetti, M, 49F . . . 5:59:13
30155 Broccolicchi, L, 35F . . . 5:59:14
30156 Massetti, L, 43F . . . 5:59:14
30157 Franchina, J, 29F . . . 5:59:14
30158 Schweizer, C, 19M . . . 5:59:17
30159 Abujatum, N, 52F . . . 5:59:24
30160 Yano, Y, 31F . . . 5:59:27
30161 Plumb, L, 27F . . . 5:59:27
30162 Weissman, K, 42M . . . 5:59:29
30163 Hasbrouck, E, 44F . . . 5:59:29
30164 Galloway, J, 46M . . . 5:59:30
30165 Min, L, 24F . . . 5:59:31
30166 Lacour, R, 65M . . . 5:59:32
30167 Bourdon, J, 48M . . . 5:59:33
30168 Torres, J, 33M . . . 5:59:34
30169 Canady, D, 64M . . . 5:59:35
30170 Canady, M, 36M . . . 5:59:35
30171 Moeller, K, 30F . . . 5:59:36
30172 Villarreal , G, 26F . . . 5:59:42
30173 Srinivasan, A, 32F . . . 5:59:43
30174 Cassidy, J, 41M . . . 5:59:44
30175 Bourgon, G, 46M . . . 5:59:45
30176 Cassidy, C, 42F . . . 5:59:46
30177 Epstein, T, 64M . . . 5:59:46
30178 Friedman, B, 46F . . . 5:59:46
30179 Leiser, J, 33F . . . 5:59:46
30180 Wallack, M, 55M . . . 5:59:49
30181 Kanyo, E, 38F . . . 5:59:51
30182 McInnis, H, 35F . . . 5:59:52
30183 Landstra, C, 32F . . . 5:59:52
30184 Hazelhoff, M, 33F . . . 5:59:52
30185 Zucchi, M, 27M . . . 5:59:53
30186 Marcotulli, S, 33M . . . 5:59:54
30187 Wright, D, 51M . . . 5:59:55
30188 Passov, I, 65M . . . 5:59:55
30189 Sornoso, E, 50M . . . 5:59:56
30190 Gardner, L, 43F . . . 5:59:56
30191 Drudi, C, 44M . . . 5:59:56
30192 Yumoto, K, 39M . . . 5:59:56
30193 Murray, R, 23M . . . 5:59:57
30194 Salvisberg, D, 28M . . . 5:59:57
30195 Borroni, P, 31M . . . 5:59:58
30196 Kerr, B, 29M . . . 5:59:59
30197 Dearing, A, 25F . . . 5:59:59

6:00:00
 
30198 Fitze, R, 43M . . . 6:00:00
30199 Veneroso, A, 57F . . . 6:00:00
30200 Shutters, D, 57M . . . 6:00:02
30201 Pernelle, F, 31M . . . 6:00:03
30202 Thiebaut, C, 49F . . . 6:00:03
30203 Coccolo, M, 68M . . . 6:00:03
30204 Summers, J, 42M . . . 6:00:04
30205 Shahamat, F, 34F . . . 6:00:08
30206 Studer, B, 36M . . . 6:00:12
30207 Hines, B, 44F . . . 6:00:15
30208 Ostler-Bearden, C, 50F . . . 6:00:17
30209 Sirtino, R, 34M . . . 6:00:18
30210 Roberts, J, 50M . . . 6:00:19
30211 Webster, R, 60M . . . 6:00:19
30212 Naghee-Reddy, R, 31M . . . 6:00:20
30213 Jernigan, M, 48F . . . 6:00:23
30214 McMichael, R, 56M . . . 6:00:29
30215 Cury, J, 50M . . . 6:00:29
30216 Barnhill, M, 29M . . . 6:00:35
30217 Tamez Perales, A, 57M . . . 6:00:38
30218 Amaike, M, 26F . . . 6:00:42
30219 Beckman, L, 50F . . . 6:00:42
30220 Gerlach, P, 58M . . . 6:00:42
30221 Rhea, A, 52F . . . 6:00:43
30222 Kane, S, 52F . . . 6:00:43
30223 Rykers Meinen, S, 25M . . . 6:00:43
30224 Greupner, S, 43F . . . 6:00:43
30225 Rykers Meinen, M, 52M . . . 6:00:43
30226 Wenmark, W, 51M . . . 6:00:44
30227 Arnold-Tuttle, L, 47F . . . 6:00:46
30228 Stevens, K, 50F . . . 6:00:46
30229 Bryant, J, 50M . . . 6:00:52
30230 Mittermueller, A, 32F . . . 6:00:55
30231 Shimizu, M, 63M . . . 6:01:02
30232 Hosokawa, K, 28F . . . 6:01:04
30233 Hasan, S, 45M . . . 6:01:07
30234 Paul, N, 42M . . . 6:01:08
30235 Boas, D, 55M . . . 6:01:10
30236 Boas, R, 26F . . . 6:01:10
30237 Killmer, M, 58F . . . 6:01:11
30238 Tiburce, F, 45M . . . 6:01:12
30239 Ravarani, M, 54M . . . 6:01:12
30240 Bogue, E, 62F . . . 6:01:12
30241 Craig, V, 61M . . . 6:01:14
30242 Callihoo, D, 48M . . . 6:01:19
30243 McKinney, A, 31F . . . 6:01:21
30244 Daly, R, 49M . . . 6:01:23
30245 Kiene, J, 29F . . . 6:01:23
30246 Piekarski, C, 66M . . . 6:01:24
30247 Chiari, L, 31F . . . 6:01:26
30248 Kuriya, J, 31M . . . 6:01:27
30249 McGruder, B, 71F . . . 6:01:29
30250 Diaz-Diego, J, 42M . . . 6:01:30
30251 Melerski Greene, J, 30F . . . 6:01:33
30252 Greene, D, 30M . . . 6:01:33
30253 Hughes, L, 20F . . . 6:01:36
30254 Montoto, C, 51F . . . 6:01:37
30255 Guzman, G, 55M . . . 6:01:43
30256 Sutphen, M, 64F . . . 6:01:45
30257 Oguro, N, 44M . . . 6:01:48
30258 Barattieri, M, 36M . . . 6:01:49
30259 Gaspard, H, 44F . . . 6:01:51
30260 Means, R, 30F . . . 6:01:53
30261 Obertance, A, 26F . . . 6:01:53
30262 Caramelli, A, 56M . . . 6:01:57
30263 Thorpe, A, 40F . . . 6:01:58
30264 Hata-Brady, D, 34M . . . 6:02:00
30265 Masten, S, 33F . . . 6:02:02
30266 Badrinauth, R, 33F . . . 6:02:04
30267 Wilson, S, 49F . . . 6:02:06
30268 Olarte, D, 22M . . . 6:02:06
30269 Volpicelli, J, 59M . . . 6:02:09
30270 Hagemann, A, 38M . . . 6:02:09
30271 Blanca, N, 39F . . . 6:02:13
30272 Trezzi, M, 67M . . . 6:02:15
30273 Ajello, U, 52M . . . 6:02:17
30274 Tinteri, Q, 35M . . . 6:02:17
30275 Tinteri, S, 28M . . . 6:02:18
30276 Mills, P, 34F . . . 6:02:23
30277 Murphy, C, 38M . . . 6:02:24
30278 Spencer, T, 52F . . . 6:02:24
30279 Thompson, N, 39M . . . 6:02:25
30280 Landman, C, 27F . . . 6:02:25
30281 Rhodes, R, 40F . . . 6:02:25
30282 Daw, P, 44F . . . 6:02:27
30283 Nicchi, P, 43M . . . 6:02:32
30284 Hunter, M, 42M . . . 6:02:38
30285 Gonzalez, T, 34M . . . 6:02:41
30286 Johnson, J, 65M . . . 6:02:42
30287 Coburn, V, 43F . . . 6:02:43
30288 Senterral, T, 36M . . . 6:02:44
30289 Gabe, L, 55F . . . 6:02:47
30290 Hoelting, R, 29F . . . 6:02:50
30291 Olivier, R, 48F . . . 6:02:59

6:03:00
 
30292 Rodo, B, 54M . . . 6:03:00
30293 Sugisawa, K, 28F . . . 6:03:05
30294 Trumper, W, 39M . . . 6:03:07
30295 Padhiar, G, 39M . . . 6:03:08
30296 Borges, C, 60M . . . 6:03:08
30297 Azzarito, A, 30M . . . 6:03:08
30298 Chemello, M, 30M . . . 6:03:09
30299 George, A, 40M . . . 6:03:10
30300 Tsuruno, Y, 26F . . . 6:03:12
30301 Aoyagi, T, 41M . . . 6:03:12
30302 Mason, P, 28M . . . 6:03:14
30303 McFeatters, S, 52F . . . 6:03:17
30304 Harris, L, 35M . . . 6:03:22
30305 Runner no. 815, 35M . . . 6:03:24
30306 Hoeller, U, 33M . . . 6:03:30
30307 Miller, L, 30F . . . 6:03:30
30308 Gessert, W, 46M . . . 6:03:32
30309 Duescher, J, 74M . . . 6:03:37
30310 Cataldo, A, 60M . . . 6:03:37
30311 Glaser, B, 44F . . . 6:03:40
30312 Chabert, Y, 43M . . . 6:03:46
30313 Chabert, A, 40F . . . 6:03:46
30314 Shimmen, M, 57M . . . 6:03:50
30315 McBrearty, N, 31M . . . 6:03:51
30316 Drummond, J, 23F . . . 6:03:52
30317 Berreckman, C, 66M . . . 6:04:05
30318 Kajornyait, J, 19M . . . 6:04:05
30319 Wiley, A, 26F . . . 6:04:09
30320 Mewes, G, 51F . . . 6:04:11
30321 Baraldi, M, 26F . . . 6:04:13
30322 Ozaki, M, 64F . . . 6:04:13
30323 Pardi, T, 53F . . . 6:04:15
30324 Hrebicek, M, 33M . . . 6:04:15
30325 Harich, K, 41F . . . 6:04:22
30326 Willert, C, 54M . . . 6:04:24
30327 Allen, M, 55F . . . 6:04:26
30328 Clay, S, 40F . . . 6:04:27
30329 Devins, A, 38F . . . 6:04:27
30330 Lheureux, B, 40F . . . 6:04:28
30331 Gilbert, C, 37F . . . 6:04:30
30332 Dillon, K, 56F . . . 6:04:30
30333 Gonzalez, M, 28F . . . 6:04:33
30334 Cannizzaro, F, 41F . . . 6:04:35
30335 Smeal, M, 52F . . . 6:04:37
30336 Casasbellas, F, 60M . . . 6:04:41
30337 Casasbellas, C, 23M . . . 6:04:41
30338 Stelle, R, 21M . . . 6:04:44
30339 Roberts, H, 49F . . . 6:04:45
30340 Barrer, S, 34F . . . 6:04:46
30341 Morales, J, 53F . . . 6:04:47
30342 Stelzner, G, 45M . . . 6:04:47
30343 Lubetkin, J, 57M . . . 6:04:47
30344 Carrigan, J, 46M . . . 6:04:49
30345 Daurio, C, 50F . . . 6:04:51
30346 Kail, M, 75M . . . 6:04:55
30347 Tukker, T, 28M . . . 6:04:56
30348 Grossman, F, 64M . . . 6:04:58
30349 Wisdom, J, 40M . . . 6:04:59
30350 Hines, J, 46M . . . 6:04:59
30351 Tamez Garza, E, 59M . . . 6:05:01
30352 Abukasis, D, 28F . . . 6:05:05
30353 Goodman, D, 36F . . . 6:05:05
30354 Williams, A, 49F . . . 6:05:06
30355 Bianconi, A, 44M . . . 6:05:07
30356 Dicomani, D, 41F . . . 6:05:07
30357 Battersby, G, 57M . . . 6:05:07
30358 Wood, C, 34M . . . 6:05:09
30359 Cohen, S, 60M . . . 6:05:09
30360 Crawford, T, 35F . . . 6:05:11
30361 Julian, G, 43F . . . 6:05:15
30362 Dayson, K, 47M . . . 6:05:19
30363 Sengupta, S, 47F . . . 6:05:21
30364 Guzman, E, 43F . . . 6:05:23
30365 Sutliff, E, 36F . . . 6:05:26
30366 Masuda, M, 38F . . . 6:05:30
30367 Groenewoud, G, 34M . . . 6:05:33
30368 Anwar, S, 26M . . . 6:05:35
30369 Haines, M, 45F . . . 6:05:35
30370 Irgang, M, 36M . . . 6:05:39
30371 Brunner, D, 36F . . . 6:05:43
30372 Sussman, R, 68M . . . 6:05:45
30373 Landis, J, 27F . . . 6:05:50
30374 Offermann, E, 57F . . . 6:05:51
30375 Schaeffer, C, 41F . . . 6:05:52
30376 Bieber, F, 54F . . . 6:06:03
30377 Hogan, H, 58M . . . 6:06:07
30378 Gaitan, M, 41F . . . 6:06:11
30379 Whelan, B, 24F . . . 6:06:11
30380 Carey, B, 70F . . . 6:06:11
30381 Carey, D, 70M . . . 6:06:11
30382 Fried, D, 27M . . . 6:06:12
30383 Aponte, J, 52F . . . 6:06:14
30384 Keegan, J, 33M . . . 6:06:15
30385 Chiodelli, A, 33M . . . 6:06:15
30386 Joschek, H, 64M . . . 6:06:15
30387 McIntosh, J, 54F . . . 6:06:18
30388 Chew, J, 30M . . . 6:06:19
30389 Gross, S, 53M . . . 6:06:20
30390 Louis-Charles, N, 30F . . . 6:06:21
30391 Jung, G, 23M . . . 6:06:22
30392 Jimenez, J, 45M . . . 6:06:23
30393 Rahaim, J, 34F . . . 6:06:23
30394 Lefkowitz, A, 33M . . . 6:06:29
30395 Smout, G, 34M . . . 6:06:32
30396 Evans, N, 35M . . . 6:06:33
30397 Bartashunas, K, 27F . . . 6:06:37
30398 Mihaeli, I, 50M . . . 6:06:40
30399 Carreira Jorge, J, 50M . . . 6:06:41
30400 Passarotti, P, 41M . . . 6:06:41
30401 Trindade Ramos, J, 39M . . . 6:06:41
30402 Elliott, H, 48F . . . 6:06:45
30403 Gonzalez, T, 40M . . . 6:06:45
30404 Lee, K, 31F . . . 6:06:47
30405 Wallner, D, 29F . . . 6:06:50
30406 Brown, L, 37F . . . 6:06:54
30407 Duggan, K, 32F . . . 6:06:54
30408 Martini, P, 45F . . . 6:06:59
30409 Benco, R, 40F . . . 6:07:01
30410 Ellis, L, 55M . . . 6:07:06
30411 Sugisawa, K, 32M . . . 6:07:06
30412 Kazutani, S, 33F . . . 6:07:08
30413 Pisani, V, 41M . . . 6:07:10
30414 Johansson, D, 33F . . . 6:07:10
30415 Okagbue, N, 46F . . . 6:07:12
30416 Stephens, J, 23F . . . 6:07:13
30417 Serrano, J, 52M . . . 6:07:14
30418 Shecter, J, 64F . . . 6:07:15
30419 Johnson, T, 65M . . . 6:07:23
30420 Murphy, F, 45M . . . 6:07:25
30421 Thompson, J, 41M . . . 6:07:29
30422 Guazzaloca, A, 64M . . . 6:07:30
30423 Camargo, H, 26M . . . 6:07:32
30424 Gibson, S, 29M . . . 6:07:32
30425 Nakabayashi, T, 29F . . . 6:07:35
30426 Zimmert, I, 51F . . . 6:07:35
30427 Gonzalez, A, 57M . . . 6:07:36
30428 Koiter, P, 26F . . . 6:07:46
30429 Pareschi, A, 51M . . . 6:07:52
30430 Eitink, J, 33F . . . 6:07:52
30431 Ronchi, V, 51F . . . 6:07:53
30432 Barberis, V, 28M . . . 6:07:53
30433 Lacasse, J, 51M . . . 6:07:54
30434 Mara, J, 53M . . . 6:07:54
30435 Crowe, S, 31F . . . 6:07:55
30436 Fagnoni, C, 28F . . . 6:07:56
30437 Mason, C, 37F . . . 6:08:05
30438 Villamar, H, 29M . . . 6:08:09
30439 Leakey, D, 20M . . . 6:08:10
30440 Jones, R, 41M . . . 6:08:12
30441 Edwards, J, 36F . . . 6:08:14
30442 Clemens, P, 41M . . . 6:08:16
30443 Parag, S, 40M . . . 6:08:18
30444 Recalde, O, 33M . . . 6:08:25
30445 O'Shea, J, 67M . . . 6:08:26
30446 Sherry, R, 69M . . . 6:08:28
30447 Balseiro, R, 60M . . . 6:08:29
30448 Peterson, L, 37F . . . 6:08:30
30449 Willett, J, 38M . . . 6:08:34
30450 Schaefer, W, 62M . . . 6:08:35
30451 Killoran, N, 36M . . . 6:08:36
30452 Cullen Killoran, P, 38F . . . 6:08:36
30453 Tackitt, G, 53F . . . 6:08:39
30454 Rand, E, 36F . . . 6:08:39
30455 Alejandre, S, 32F . . . 6:08:43
30456 Endo, M, 37F . . . 6:08:44
30457 Cribbens, M, 71F . . . 6:08:51
30458 Ribaro, K, 40F . . . 6:08:55
30459 Logan, M, 40F . . . 6:08:55
30460 Romano, E, 63M . . . 6:08:59
30461 Giffin, S, 40F . . . 6:09:00
30462 Stith, R, 57M . . . 6:09:00
30463 Verger, L, 33M . . . 6:09:00
30464 Solomon, E, 57M . . . 6:09:00
30465 Adams, R, 60M . . . 6:09:00
30466 Sullivan, D, 30M . . . 6:09:02
30467 Martin, L, 39M . . . 6:09:03
30468 Griller, S, 42F . . . 6:09:05
30469 Anderson, S, 38M . . . 6:09:08
30470 Cunningham, P, 42F . . . 6:09:15
30471 Nebrida, J, 57M . . . 6:09:18
30472 Fischer, E, 37M . . . 6:09:21
30473 Parolini, M, 23F . . . 6:09:21
30474 Avery, J, 50F . . . 6:09:21
30475 Dryden, C, 54M . . . 6:09:23
30476 Ulrich, T, 30M . . . 6:09:23
30477 Sastre, G, 42F . . . 6:09:23
30478 Nakahata, M, 50F . . . 6:09:26
30479 Marrast Host, J, 31F . . . 6:09:27
30480 Muller, F, 36F . . . 6:09:28
30481 Lentz, A, 41F . . . 6:09:33
30482 Hall, J, 36M . . . 6:09:38
30483 Mitsumoto, Y, 43M . . . 6:09:39
30484 Benelli, F, 71M . . . 6:09:42
30485 Todd, P, 57M . . . 6:09:50
30486 Perido, D, 55M . . . 6:09:52
30487 Preite, T, 42F . . . 6:09:54
30488 Weisner, D, 52M . . . 6:09:55
30489 Ijima, S, 36F . . . 6:09:55
30490 Andrews, M, 47F . . . 6:10:07
30491 Poole, M, 49F . . . 6:10:08
30492 Peschel, L, 48F . . . 6:10:08
30493 Peschel, W, 66M . . . 6:10:08
30494 Redford, R, 71M . . . 6:10:08
30495 Kinjo, I, 27F . . . 6:10:08
30496 Sholl, J, 23F . . . 6:10:10
30497 Manard, R, 37M . . . 6:10:13
30498 Caraher, J, 37M . . . 6:10:14
30499 Kasachkoff, T, 56F . . . 6:10:15
30500 Rodriguez, B, 52F . . . 6:10:15
30501 Hogan, R, 54M . . . 6:10:16
30502 Tettamanti, G, 23M . . . 6:10:16
30503 Tettamanti, S, 18M . . . 6:10:17
30504 Hylton, M, 40F . . . 6:10:19
30505 Schwartz, A, 30F . . . 6:10:19
30506 Wieland, J, 53F . . . 6:10:21
30507 Ammiano, A, 40F . . . 6:10:27
30508 Roventini, J, 39M . . . 6:10:28
30509 Livreri, I, 39M . . . 6:10:28
30510 Parkhurst, W, 54M . . . 6:10:29
30511 Magni, G, 67M . . . 6:10:33
30512 Robinson, J, 46M . . . 6:10:42
30513 Kelleher, D, 54M . . . 6:10:47
30514 Morris, P, 46F . . . 6:10:50
30515 Alexander, J, 50F . . . 6:10:50
30516 Negrier, M, 49F . . . 6:10:53
30517 Gomez, B, 35M . . . 6:10:54
30518 Gomez, C, 33F . . . 6:10:54
30519 Jones, D, 39M . . . 6:10:55
30520 Worthington, J, 57F . . . 6:11:00
30521 Ranta, B, 56F . . . 6:11:01
30522 Boileau, S, 28F . . . 6:11:04
30523 Buckland, L, 70M . . . 6:11:05
30524 Tuck, C, 44F . . . 6:11:08
30525 McHarrie, J, 18F . . . 6:11:12
30526 Melling, P, 19M . . . 6:11:12
30527 Peterson, B, 22F . . . 6:11:12
30528 Besati, C, 60M . . . 6:11:14
30529 Nakaki, H, 28F . . . 6:11:14
30530 Shinoda, N, 32M . . . 6:11:15
30531 Loutsch, E, 66M . . . 6:11:16
30532 Valenzuela, R, 31F . . . 6:11:16
30533 Werkmann, E, 36M . . . 6:11:16
30534 Eckard, T, 35F . . . 6:11:18
30535 Harris, K, 31F . . . 6:11:18
30536 Cabrera, A, 46M . . . 6:11:19
30537 Menendez, V, 33M . . . 6:11:23
30538 Jimenez, A, 28F . . . 6:11:24
30539 Zakin, D, 30F . . . 6:11:24
30540 Pasternack, J, 30F . . . 6:11:29
30541 Santos, J, 27M . . . 6:11:30
30542 Tobin, L, 24F . . . 6:11:31
30543 Swan, J, 50F . . . 6:11:32
30544 Dixon, J, 50F . . . 6:11:32
30545 Turnbull, A, 63M . . . 6:11:35
30546 Lanzone, R, 58M . . . 6:11:37
30547 Little, S, 56F . . . 6:11:41
30548 Sulcik, M, 48F . . . 6:11:41
30549 Addison, L, 40F . . . 6:11:44
30550 Pabon, C, 46F . . . 6:11:49
30551 Smith, C, 45F . . . 6:11:50
30552 Carlson, V, 34F . . . 6:11:51
30553 Kane, D, 33F . . . 6:11:54
30554 Kane, H, 38F . . . 6:11:54
30555 Devlin, A, 52F . . . 6:11:56
30556 Decker, J, 46F . . . 6:11:59
30557 Holland, A, 33F . . . 6:12:00
30558 Finger, B, 58M . . . 6:12:01
30559 Fearon, G, 57M . . . 6:12:08
30560 Keating, L, 32F . . . 6:12:12
30561 Keating, G, 27M . . . 6:12:12
30562 Hanna, P, 51M . . . 6:12:13
30563 Larkin, W, 33M . . . 6:12:18
30564 Economacos, V, 37F . . . 6:12:22
30565 Novak, M, 30F . . . 6:12:24
30566 Icenhower, I, 28M . . . 6:12:25
30567 Harrison, J, 26M . . . 6:12:25
30568 Mennella, G, 50F . . . 6:12:29
30569 Cioffi, G, 41M . . . 6:12:34
30570 Tebbetts, J, 30F . . . 6:12:34
30571 Gabriel, M, 40M . . . 6:12:36
30572 Ferruggia, C, 42M . . . 6:12:40
30573 Redlingshafer, R, 43M . . . 6:12:40
30574 Simula, M, 47M . . . 6:12:47
30575 Nieddu, T, 25F . . . 6:12:49
30576 Ponti, M, 37F . . . 6:12:50
30577 Decarli, A, 35F . . . 6:12:50
30578 Gimenez, O, 42F . . . 6:12:59
30579 Ryan, F, 44F . . . 6:12:59
30580 Bell, C, 54F . . . 6:13:00
30581 Watkins, P, 42M . . . 6:13:00
30582 Bandler, E, 70M . . . 6:13:03
30583 Rhome, M, 41F . . . 6:13:08
30584 Waldman, S, 35M . . . 6:13:16
30585 Vitali, F, 24M . . . 6:13:22
30586 Vielhaber, B, 47F . . . 6:13:23
30587 Matos, G, 42M . . . 6:13:29
30588 Gatto, J, 53M . . . 6:13:36
30589 Ganoe, C, 70M . . . 6:13:38
30590 Dunne, M, 33M . . . 6:13:39
30591 Quijano, A, 28F . . . 6:13:43
30592 Mackay, R, 42F . . . 6:13:45
30593 Campbell, B, 53F . . . 6:13:47
30594 Orr, P, 23F . . . 6:13:51
30595 Renner, L, 48F . . . 6:13:53
30596 Stabiumi, M, 27F . . . 6:13:56
30597 Polcer, E, 62M . . . 6:14:01
30598 Polcer, J, 55F . . . 6:14:01
30599 Douglas, K, 34F . . . 6:14:05
30600 Hudson, S, 38M . . . 6:14:05
30601 Dehnel, A, 58F . . . 6:14:10
30602 Leneweit, H, 64M . . . 6:14:11
30603 Falkner, R, 61F . . . 6:14:11
30604 Light, C, 32M . . . 6:14:11
30605 Frey, P, 51M . . . 6:14:13
30606 Frey, M, 50F . . . 6:14:14
30607 Shifman, A, 65M . . . 6:14:15
30608 Mogentale, C, 48F . . . 6:14:20
30609 Sanson, A, 49M . . . 6:14:21
30610 Horrigan, S, 46F . . . 6:14:25
30611 Berglund, R, 52M . . . 6:14:25
30612 Dorey, J, 51F . . . 6:14:26
30613 Montorfani, G, 56F . . . 6:14:27
30614 Connor, P, 40F . . . 6:14:28
30615 Gooding, C, 35M . . . 6:14:34
30616 Kjaernsmo, R, 65M . . . 6:14:34
30617 Longo, G, 41M . . . 6:14:35
30618 Richardson, B, 48M . . . 6:14:42
30619 Jahns, R, 52M . . . 6:14:44
30620 Kojima, S, 48F . . . 6:14:44
30621 Slade, W, 47M . . . 6:14:46
30622 Malone, C, 56M . . . 6:14:47
30623 Paparini, P, 50M . . . 6:14:47
30624 Lenterman, J, 38F . . . 6:14:52
30625 Verny, P, 34M . . . 6:14:55
30626 Messina, M, 34M . . . 6:14:58 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARATHONS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1999



198 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Image Is Poor, But Hartford Looks Good To Developers

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY 

 BODY:
Hartford had a bittersweet moment in the national spotlight last Thursday, when President Clinton came to town to announce that local companies were investing nearly $200 million to redevelop the city. It was good news, of course, but any temptation to bask in civic pride was probably tempered by the occasion for the visit: Hartford was a featured stop on Mr. Clinton's poverty tour, sharing billing with the Mississippi Delta, Newark and Appalachia.
While the president's visit underlined the troubles in Hartford -- afflicted by a loss of jobs and population and by a reputation as a municipal also-ran -- the news of the investment was also taken by many as another sign that the city is beginning to rebound. 
 "Hartford is like the last girl asked to dance," said Larry Charles Sr., executive director of One/ Chane, a neighborhood economic development group. "We're not New York, we're not Boston, but we have character. All the stars appear to be lined up right now, and it's Hartford's turn."
The city has grand plans for a new downtown, with a revitalized waterfront and a stadium for the University of Connecticut. The multimillion-dollar project -- Adriaen's Landing , a retail, entertainment and education center, plus a convention center and housing and parking -- gained momentum from Mr. Clinton's announcement. Boston-area developers have bought the Civic Center Mall and plan to build housing there. Capital Properties, a New York developer, is refurbishing two office towers at Constitution Plaza. The city's plans also include a higher education center and $25 million to rehabilitate housing.
The state and federal governments are also pitching in: the Department of Housing and Urban Development is providing $8.2 million in loans, grants and training programs, and Connecticut has pledged $455 million to the Adriaen's Landing project -- named for the Dutch explorer Adriaen Block, who in 1614 became the first European to reach Hartford -- provided it can attract $210 million in private investment.
There have been other bright spots. The crime rate has decreased 40 percent in the last six years, and the commercial vacancy rate has shrunk to 10 percent from 27 percent or 28 percent, according to the mayor, Michael P. Peters.
The Connecticut River, once described as "the most beautifully landscaped sewer in America," has been made accessible to the public again in the state capital, with floodproof landscaping and events like the Eastern Regional Bass Fishing Tournament (yes, stripers in downtown Hartford) and a Chris Isaak concert. Riverfront Recapture, the nonprofit group spearheading such efforts, won national recognition in 1997 from the Waterfront Center, a national organization that encourages such redevelopment, for being "one of the most heroic waterfront projects in the United States." This year the riverfront alone attracted a half million visitors.
So although the Whalers hockey team left for North Carolina in 1997, and the New England Patriots decided in April to stay put in Boston (after long, wrenching negotiations with Hartford), and although insurance companies have moved thousands of jobs elsewhere, there is hope about the move to refurbish the city.
Mayor Peters recalls the early 1990's, when the school system was failing and people were fleeing to the suburbs. "It looked like we weren't going to survive," he said. He said that New England was the last region in the country to recover economically, and that Hartford was one of the last cities in the state to feel the benefits of the economic upswing of the late 90's.
Lawrence R. Gottesdiener is chairman and chief executive of Northland Investment Corporation, based in Newton, Mass., which has purchased the Civic Center Mall. He was attracted to the city by its location between two international financial centers and its affluent and well-educated population. He ticked off a list of amenities: the riverfront, the Bushnell Theatre, the Hartford Stage and the Wadsworth Atheneum, the oldest continuously operating art museum in the United States. They form a framework, he said, for creating an exciting urban center.
"There's an enormous amount of public money to help add new tile to that mosaic, and ultimately produce something that's extraordinarily beautiful, and not replicable in the suburbs," he said.
But he has found that Hartford continues to have a less than desirable business reputation. "Its perception remains terrible," he said.
Another developer, John Elkington, chief executive of Performa Realty, which refurbished Beale Street in Memphis as well as other urban centers in the South, has been invited to develop an entertainment and restaurant center. He is joining Sheldon Gordon, a developer whose projects include the Bridgemarket under the Queensboro Bridge in Manhattan and the profitable Forum Shops of Las Vegas.
Mr. Elkington said he was enthusiastic about Hartford's untapped market. There are 1.2 million people within a half-hour drive of downtown, he said, and almost half of them make $50,000 to $75,000 a year.
"One hundred million people a year go on Interstate 91 or Interstate 84 past Hartford," he said. "What you've got to be able to do is get those people off there." He hopes to build a $60 million project with a New England feel to it, in the westernmost part of Adriaen's Landing, close to the Atheneum.
But while the insurance magnates and entrepreneurs write their checks, members of community groups are concerned about how the revitalization process will evolve.
Mr. Charles said: "The difficult thing here is we need to answer the question, Whose Hartford is it? Is it the Hartford that's being designed by suburbanites for their entertainment, or is it the Hartford being designed by residents of the community?"
Evelyn Mantilla, a state representative whose district includes the Adriaen's Landing site and half of downtown, is concerned about whether jobs from the new development will go to Hartford residents. She also wants to see a strong commitment for affordable housing.
"I want to make sure that all the decisions include the real residents of Hartford in the process," she said. "Hartford does have a set of very strong community groups, community leaders, people who represent their neighborhood.
"Everything should be done in a democratic way that includes their feedback as well."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about efforts to revitalize Hartford misidentified the owner of the Civic Center Mall. The owner is Aetna; the Northland Investment Corporation has signed a memo of intent to buy the mall.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hartford's walkway along the Connecticut River is among the amenities cited as helping attract redevelopment to a dreary downtown. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); ; UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ADRIAEN'S LANDING (HARTFORD, CONN) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); TOURNAMENTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (66%); CRIME RATES (60%); 

PERSON: KELLEY, TINA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999



199 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 7; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Treating Exile as a Separate Country

BYLINE: By RICHARD EDER 

 BODY:

THE MUSEUM OF UNCONDITIONAL SURRENDER
By Dubravka Ugresic
Translated by Celia Hawkesworth. Illustrated. 238 pages. New Directions. $24.95.
Exile is the only country without a geography. It has, however, a climate, a culture, an ecology, an archaeology and virtually a national smell. They figure on the doleful map drawn by Dubravka Ugresic, a refugee from the repressive nationalist politics and culture of post-Yugoslav Croatia. 
 It shows us:
"That exile is the history of the things we leave behind, of buying and abandoning hair driers, cheap little radios, coffee pots. . . . That exile is changing voltages and kilohertz, life with an adapter, so we don't burn ourselves. That exile is the history of our temporary rented apartments, the first lonely mornings as we spread out the map of the town in silence, find on the map the name of our street and mark it with a cross in pencil. (We repeat the history of the great conquerors, with little crosses instead of flags.)
"Those little firm facts, stamps in our passport, accumulate and at a certain moment they become illegible lines. Then they suddenly begin to trace an inner map, the map of the unreal, the imaginary. And it is only then that they express precisely the immeasurable experience of exile."
"The Museum of Unconditional Surrender" is a strew of such factlets, a Hansel-and-Gretel trail of crumbs into the witch's forest of our time. Seemingly disjointed and sometimes forced, they assemble a universal -- the human displacements of Bosnia, Kosovo, Rwanda, East Timor, Chechnya -- in strikingly individual terms. Ugresic's stream-of-consciousness exile in Berlin gives us not the gory amputation of refugee flight but arrival's grayer course of tissue-rejection.
The author, who has spent years of expatriation in Germany and the United States and now lives in the Netherlands, is a novelist and essayist. Her style is personal and aphoristic. "Museum," originally in Croatian, is a mix of diary, notebook, commonplace book and memoir; its facts and conversations slide between record and invention. There is much that is arbitrary and self-indulgent, yet "Museum" is a precious portrait of exile as internal displacement.
Ugresic knows she writes in the line of greater and more spacious chroniclers of the theme. She freely quotes Nabokov and Joseph Brodsky; her spitfire artistic assertiveness has a curious humility to it. Nevertheless, she must be numbered among what Jacques Maritain called the dreamers of what is true; she draws us into the dream.
Scattershot and posturing as she can be, there is a startling aim in her master image at the beginning. A display case in the Berlin Zoo holds the contents of the stomach of Roland the Walrus, who died in 1961: a pink cigarette lighter, a water pistol, sunglasses, a toy parachute, a small doll, a beer can, a poodle brooch, a sewing kit, car keys and much else.
I Am the Walrus is the leitmotiv of Ugresic's narrator/alter ego, Bubi. Exiled out of a polar remove, Bubi lives not in a zoo but an equivalent: the museum of the title. Exile reality, no longer nourished by roots, is a collection of orphan sensations, artifacts and memories. One of the most persuasive themes in the Berlin jottings around which the book is constructed -- other parts include childhood memories, the story of her mother and an account of the breakup of Yugoslavia and a band of college friends along with it -- is photographs.
There are two kinds of refugees, a Bosnian friend remarks, "those who have photographs and those who have none." The narrator tells an anecdote about the Bosnian-Serb general and war criminal Ratko Mladic. Noticing that the Sarajevo house of an acquaintance was on his bombardment list, Mladic phoned to inform him he had five minutes to collect his photograph albums and leave.
"The general, who had been destroying the city for months, knew precisely how to annihilate memory. That is why he 'generously' bestowed on his acquaintance life with the right to remembrance."
Remembrance is possession, but it rusts. The narrator haunts the Berlin flea market where Europe's displaced -- Ukrainians, Bosnians, Africans, Gypsies, Turks and her own countrymen -- peddle a tumulus of memory as objects. A shadow passes over the reader. How special a case can exile be? Just across the tracks from the global village the global flea market is setting up.
The narrator promenades a series of tags to test out her particular estrangement. "Ich bin mude" ("I am tired"): her first German phrase, and for a while she wants to learn no other. "Learning more means opening up." Later comes "Guten Tag," exchanged with Herr Schroeder, the postman. Apparently a greeting, to the exile it warns: come no farther.
Herr Schroeder draws arrows on the envelopes to remind her to give him the Croatian stamps. "Berlin loneliness is as acute and unambiguous as Herr Schroeder's arrow," she notes, and she's off to test "I'm lonely" among her exile friends. "It's not surprising," says Zoran. "Everyone in Berlin is lonely. And for some reason, no one ever has any time." Again she's off, asking a dozen people: "Have you some time?" They ignore the question. Only the exile "has" time; the settled, lonely or not, "use" it.
Interspersed with the Berlin wanderings are vignettes from the past. There is a tender account of the narrator's mother, from her girlhood in Bulgaria to the gradually easing rigors of postwar Yugoslavia to the bleakness, for an old Yugoslav believer, of seeing the country fall apart. There is a soured love affair, a cheerful passage with a Portuguese gigolo, a zany feud with three Indian students in a London rooming house.
The writing here can be overmannered. So is the story of eight Croatian, Serbian and Bosnian women whose friendship ruptures when the civil war begins. The many jagged and poignant details are dimmed by fictional and symbolic inflation, including a magic realist angel.
It is the Berlin notes that give "Museum" its sharp and haunting edge. There are times, of course, when a reader may wonder about the treatment of exile as a depressive finality. After all, untold millions have found a life beyond it. For a moment, though, italicize that "have." Like entrails for the ancient Greeks, the inspired particularities of "Museum" have a suggestion of prophecy. The story of illness is not subsumed by the story of cures. In our day is exile still an illness or the beginnings of pandemic?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dubravka Ugresic (New Directions)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MUSEUM OF UNCONDITIONAL SURRENDER, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: CROATIA (91%); GERMANY (90%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SERBIA (77%); NETHERLANDS (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (91%); GERMANY (90%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); KOSOVO (79%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SERBIA (77%); NETHERLANDS (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); WRITERS (88%); ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); REFUGEES (72%); DISPLACED PERSONS (71%); LITERATURE (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); 

PERSON: UGRESIC, DUBRAVKA; EDER, RICHARD DUBRAVKA UGRESIC (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1999



200 of 745 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Giant Hopes for Tiny Satellites

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8

 BODY:
The concept of less being more will take on new meaning in space next month when the Air Force launches a fleet of tiny experimental satellites made of miniature components -- diminutive machines that could one day work together in groups to replace or supplement larger spacecraft.
Driven by economics and the desire to approach working in space in a different way, researchers are exploring methods to make and use midget spacecraft -- some weighing less than a pound and hardly larger than a pack of playing cards -- that could be used alone to perform simple tasks or flown in formations to execute more complex ones. 
 Interest in tiny satellites that can distribute the duties and risks of working in space has grown with advances in microtechnology that are reducing the size of machines and components. For example, rapid improvements in microelectromechanical systems, or MEMS, technology are allowing researchers to produce switches, valves, levers, gears and other machine components that are too small to be seen by the human eye. Space engineers say they are harnessing such elements to make bantam satellites with techniques similar to those used to produce computer chips.
"The goal is to one day build a satellite on a chip," said Dr. Siegfried W. Janson, a senior scientist with The Aerospace Corporation, a private research organization in El Segundo, Calif. "We're talking about fully integrated satellites that could be mass produced cheaply by the hundreds and sent into space in groups to perform a variety of tasks."
Satellites are generally classified by weight, with standard ones weighing a ton or more, small satellites coming in between 200 pounds and a ton, and microsats considered those that fall between 20 pounds and 200 pounds. The new wave of smaller satellites that engineers see for the future are so-called nanosatellites ranging from 20 pounds down to 2 pounds, and picosatellites that weigh in at less than 2 pounds.
Dr. Janson said he envisioned producing satellites weighing as little as half a pound that are assembled from layered silicon wafers containing sensors, computing power, communications systems, mechanical devices and even micro rocket thrusters. Swarms of such satellites, launched together on single, inexpensive rockets, could replace more expensive single satellites for some tasks, he said, or spread out to take on entirely new roles in space.
In addition to low cost, networks composed of dozens, if not hundreds, of inexpensive tiny satellites could offer a new standard of reliability, proponents say. If one or several of the machines in a formation fails, others in the group could redistribute themselves and continue performing the assigned task, they say, something not possible with a single-satellite mission.
Peter V. Panetta of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., agrees, saying there is growing interest in increasingly smaller satellites and other spacecraft. "This isn't just a fad," he said. "A lot of people see this as the future and are working toward the technical breakthroughs to make these things possible."
Mr. Panetta, manager of NASA's Nanosat Technology Development Program, said the agency hoped to have a constellation of 100 nanosatellites, weighing as little as 2 pounds each, launched by one rocket on a single mission in 2008. This approach would be ideal for science missions requiring measurements to be taken simultaneously from many locations, he said, such as monitoring the amount of solar radiation absorbed by, and then reflected from, the Earth.
As a step toward the goal of flying formations of nanosats, NASA announced in August that it would sponsor the Nanosat Constellation Trailblazer mission. This flight of three 40-pound microsats, scheduled for 2003, will test MEMS technology, formation flying and methods of operating several spacecraft as a system to pave the way for future nanosat clusters, Mr. Panetta said.
Formations of nanosats could be the only way to study certain phenomenon, he said, such as the dynamics of the magnetosphere, the area around the Earth that traps high-energy particles from the sun in the planetary magnetic field. This moving, tear-shaped region extends more than 150,000 miles from the Earth in the direction away from the Sun, he said, and only a network of satellites could constantly monitor its changes.
Dr. Mark E. Campbell of the University of Washington in Seattle recently completed a NASA-sponsored study of possible deep space missions for clusters of pico or nano-sized spacecraft. Among the possibilities, he said, are teams of semi-autonomous craft that could swarm around asteroids or comets to make measurements and then assemble themselves into a communications array to send the results back to Earth. Another possibility is to send a mother ship to a planet that would release orbiting picosats that would slowly drift down through its atmosphere and send data back to Earth via the mother craft.
"My guess is that it will take 15 to 20 years to put together a system like this, but this is where the technology is heading," Dr. Campbell said.
Engineers also envision jobs for single midget satellites, like launching one along with each expensive, large spacecraft. If a problem arose with the main spacecraft, the tiny satellite buddy could detach and examine the larger ship to help ground controllers diagnose and fix the difficulty.
To test the concept of midget satellites in space, several picosats are scheduled to be launched into Earth orbit early next month on the inaugural launching of a new Air Force booster rocket. The rocket, formally called the Orbital/Suborbital Program Space Launch Vehicle but nicknamed Minotaur, uses the first two stages of decommissioned Minuteman II intercontinental ballistic missiles and upper stages from Orbital Sciences Corporation's commercial Pegasus rocket. The Air Force hopes to use surplus ICBM's as a cheap way to launch small government payloads.
Among Air Force and university payloads offered a free ride on the first flight is the Orbiting Picosat Automated Launcher, or OPAL, built by students from Stanford University. The OPAL mother ship is to fire off a half dozen pico-sized daughter satellites, including a pair built by the Aerospace Corporation and the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
The two battery-powered satellites in this pair, each weighing about a half-pound and slightly larger than a pack of playing cards, are to be connected by a 100-foot tether to keep them from drifting too far apart to communicate with one another. The satellites will spend several days communicating with one another and with a third picosat at a ground station to see how they operate as a system, and testing an array of experimental MEMS radio switches.
The tether between the craft contains a gold wire to help Earth-based radar track the tiny objects, which raises the issue of old picosats becoming space debris that could damage other craft through space collisions.
Mr. Panetta of NASA said designers were aware of the potential problem with the tiny, hard-to-follow spacecraft and see it as an issue to address in mission design. One approach, he said, is to put nano-thrusters on Earth-orbiting satellites that could be fired at the end of a mission to slow the craft enough to fall out of orbit and burn up in the atmosphere. "You don't want the solution to one problem to create another," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A drawing shows the tether that will keep satellites from drifting apart. (Aerospace Corporation); The sensor board in a picosatellite that weighs less than two pounds. (Aerospace Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (67%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AEROSPACE CORP (67%); US AIR FORCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SATELLITES; MINIATURIZATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE SPACECRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); MEMS TECHNOLOGY (90%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); SPACE PROPULSION (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (71%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E PETER V PANETTA (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1999

 
